                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No:ICR0000184




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (Loan/Credit No 047309)




                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION
                         (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

          CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. (ELECTROBRAS)

                                     FOR AN

                         ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT




                                 January 25, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/2006)
                                   Currency Unit = Real
                                  Real 1.00 = US$0.4658
                                  US$1.00 = Real 2.1467
                                       Fiscal Year
                                     July 1 - June 30


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABESCO Brazil National ESCO Association
APL   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBM    Capacity Building Module
CEPEL Brazil National Electric Laboratory
CO2   Carbon Dioxide
DP    Demonstration Project
DSM   Demand-side Management
EE    Energy Efficiency
ESCO  Energy Service Company
ESMAP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF   Global Environment Facility
GHG   Greenhouse Gas
GOB    Government of Brazil
IP    Integrated Planning
LEE   Law on Energy Efficiency
MME   Brazil Ministry of Mines and Energy
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objectives
PMU   Project Management Unit
PROCEL Brazil National Electricity Conservation Program
PSR   Project Status Report
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme



               Vice President:                Pamela Cox
               Country Director:              John Briscoe
               Sector Manager:                Susan G. Goldmark
               Project Team Leader:           Todd M. Johnson

                                                    BRAZIL
                       ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT(GEF)



                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design.................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 15
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 20
9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome ............................................. 23
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 24
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 27
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 29
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 36
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 37
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 39
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 42
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 43
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 45
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 46
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 47
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 48
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 49
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 50
Annex 13. Note on Cancelled Operation: Report No. NCO0000262 (IBRD-45140) . 51
MAP: IBRD 33377 ...................................................................................................... 52

1. Basic Information

Country:                 Brazil                 Project Name:           BR ENERGY
                                                                        EFFICIENCY (GEF)
Project ID:              P047309                L/C/TF Number(s):       WBTF-21843
ICR Date:                01/24/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                    Borrower:               ELETROBRAS
Original GEF grant
amount                   USD 15.0M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 11.9M

Environmental
Category:                C                      GEF Focal Area          C

Implementing Agencies

Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S/A
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process               Date             Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/13/1997             Effectiveness:    08/15/2000         02/07/2001
Appraisal:         10/15/1998          Restructuring(s):                    05/07/2003
Approval:          10/05/1999          Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:          12/31/2003         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance        Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                    No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                         No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

GEO rating before
Closing/Inactive status           Satisfactory

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                    Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                       100               100
                                                Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                   Secondary        Primary
Pollution management and environmental health    Primary          Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                      Positions                      At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                 Pamela Cox       David de Ferranti

Country Director:                               John Briscoe     Gobind T.
                                                                 Nankani

Sector Manager:                                 Susan G.         Danny M.
                                                Goldmark         Leipziger
Project Team Leader:                            Todd M. Johnson Luis M. Vaca-Soto
ICR Team Leader:                                Todd M. Johnson
ICR Primary Author:                             Xiaoping Wang




                                            2

6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) covers only the GEF-financed
components of the Brazil Energy Efficiency Project (P047309). A World Bank loan of
US$43.4 million was originally associated with the project but there was no disbursement
and the loan was cancelled in 2004. The two projects were effectively "de-linked"
following the loan cancellation and the restructuring of the GEF project in consultation with
OPCS and the GEF. The note for cancelled operations (NCO) for the World Bank loan is
attached.

A broad range of measures can be undertaken to improve energy efficiency for both, use of
electricity and energy for heat and motive power, these include: (a) policy measures,
indirect instruments such as energy tariffs and prices, to direct instruments for instance
energy efficiency standards and related legislation; (b) capacity building to strengthen
institutions, ranging from utilities, government agencies, commercial banks, or specialized
energy efficiency companies (ESCOs); (c) availability of finance from commercial banks,
dedicated loan windows from development institutions, or carbon financing; and
(d) investments in key energy-consuming sectors such as residential, commercial, industrial,
transport, and the public sector.

This project focused primarily on capacity building for improving the efficiency of
electricity use by the residential and commercial sectors in Brazil by working through
electricity distribution companies and the government program for electricity efficiency,
PROCEL.

Macroeconomic Context

This project was prepared in context of the economic conditions and structure of the energy
sector in the mid- and late-1990s. A description of the macroeconomic environment and
energy sector would be useful to understand the design of the project. Since the deep
recession in 1990, Brazil had adopted a comprehensive package of economic reforms that
has fundamentally transformed its economy. First, trade liberalization was introduced,
including reduction of import tariffs and establishment of the regional trade agreement
Mercosul. Second, in 1994, the Real Plan was introduced which featured privatization of
state-owned industries, lowering of tariffs, and the abolition of Brazil's unique and
counterproductive wage-inflation indexing, which had sent prices on a seemingly endless
upward spiral. The Brazilian Real initially appreciated against the U.S. dollar as a result of
the large amount of capital inflows in late 1994 and 1995, but then began a gradual
depreciation process until January 1999 when an inflation-targeting, free-floating policy was
instituted which effectively meant the fixed-exchange rate period was over. In late 2002 the
Real reached its historic low of almost R$4 per US$1 in fear of the possible monetary policy
change by the then to-be-elected President Lula. Since then the Real has been getting



                                                  3

stronger against the dollar and, since the beginning of 2005, against most other world
currencies as well. One of the striking achievements during the 1990s was the reduction of
inflation rates from nearly 5000 percent in mid-1994 to 6 percent in 2000. The growth rate
of the economy averaged 4.2 percent between 1992-97. After the turmoil of the Russian and
Asian Crises in 1998-99, Brazil's growth registered 4.2 percent again in 2000, but this trend
did not continue due to the global slowdown, events in Argentina, and the 2001/2002 energy
crisis in Brazil (as described below) that constrained economic activity. Despite their recent
downward trend, real interest rates in Brazil have been and remain high. The average real
interest rate was 21.4 percent in 1997-99, 15.9 percent in 2000-01 and 11.9 percent in
2003-05. The continuing high interest rates are due to a number of factors, including the
high level of public debt, limitations on issuing long-term bonds, the high level of
government spending, failure to achieve sustained economic growth, and the history and
expectations of default and high inflation.

Energy Sector Issues

Up to 1995, Brazil had a centralized, predominantly public sector power system, with most
generation and transmission owned by the Government through its holding company,
Eletrobrás and its subsidiaries, and by about a half dozen state companies. ITAIPU, a joint
Brazilian-Paraguayan hydro undertaking, supplied a quarter of the demand through two
utility companies FURNAS and ELETROSUL,. Almost all of the distribution companies
were owned by the individual states.

In 1995, the Government initiated a major power sector reform to establish a competitive,
more efficient private sector-operated system. The reform led to: 1) privatization of
23 percent of generation assets and 64 percent of distribution assets; 2) creation of a
National System Operator (ONS) with responsibility for central cost-based dispatch for the
interconnected system; a Wholesale Electricity Market (MAE) and a new federal electricity
regulatory agency (ANEEL). However, after the initial successes, the reform lost
momentum for several reasons. First, there was a lack of commitment and coordination on
the part of the Government, particularly after the financial market crisis in 1999 when the
Government shifted its priorities. Second, there was strong resistance to the reform by
major regional utilities and local political leaders who did not want to lose control or
political influence. Third, there was little sense of an upcoming energy crisis despite
warnings that the lack of investment, non-completion of market reforms and progressive
depletion of hydro reservoirs were putting the power sector operations at risk.

The Brazilian power system experienced a major supply crisis in 2001 and 2002. As a
result, the country was forced to implement an aggressive energy rationing plan from June
2001 through February 2002. Brazil's power generation had been dominated by
hydroelectricity which accounted for nearly 90 percent of its total installed capacity. The
immediate cause for the energy crisis was a sequence of years drier than usual. However,
the structural imbalance between supply and demand and the under-investment in new
capacity were believed to be the most important reasons why the system was not able to
withstand low rainfall without the need for severe rationing measures. While the
market-driven power sector reforms triggered a wave of investments in Brazil, the reforms
also led to growing pains within the electricity supply system. There was a lack of


                                               4

incentives, due to both commercial and regulatory reasons, for distribution companies to
sign contracts with electricity suppliers and there was also a "false sense of security" within
the electricity industry due to the overestimate of inherited supply contracts that were not
backed up with secure physical capacity (see Luiz Maurer et al, ESMAP Report 305/05).

The rationing system consisted of monthly energy consumption targets for almost all
consumers and a set of rules for trading quotas, setting bonuses for overachievers and
penalties for violators. Quotas were assigned to each individual customer group, amounting
to as much as a 35 percent reduction of average consumption in the corresponding
three-month period of the previous year. Penalties for non-compliance were severe,
reflecting the marginal cost of energy in the wholesale market. The system also allowed the
trading of quotas for non-residential consumers. As a result, from June to December 2001,
there was a 20 percent load reduction, compared with the previous year's consumption level.

The quota system effectively minimized the damage of the crisis by not resorting to
blackouts. Another interesting feature was the use of price signals, which helped to make
the program an international best practice on how to implement rationing. There is also
evidence that some of the Energy Efficiency (EE) measures adopted by consumers became
permanent--one of the positive consequences of the crisis. Nearly three quarters of the
consumers who replaced incandescent bulbs with compact florescent lamps (CFL) during
the rationing continued using CFLs thereafter according to the market survey by the Brazil
National Electricity Conservation Program (PROCEL).

Energy Efficiency in Brazil

In the mid-1990s when this project was conceived, electricity demand in Brazil had been
growing at 6-7 percent per year. In order to meet the demand, 27GW of additional capacity
was projected for the following 8-10 years. Given that most of the attractive hydropower
resources had already been developed, and further expansion of hydroelectric capacity was
hindered by the institutional barriers and environmental and social constraints, the
additional capacity was expected to be met primarily through fossil fuels. Nonetheless, in
retrospect, the 2001/2002 energy crisis demonstrated that the Government's attempt to
expand thermal generating capacity did not generate concrete results due to lack of
incentives for private companies to invest and for the distribution companies to conclude
long-term power purchase agreements (PPA).

The residential and industrial sectors accounted for three quarters of electricity consumption
in Brazil in the late 1990s and their share was growing. Per capita residential power
consumption increased by nearly 50 percent between 1994 and 2000, only briefly declined
during the 2001/2002 crisis, and picked up again after the crisis. According to the
preliminary survey that was conducted in mid-2004 with financial support from this project,
there is significant potential of energy savings in electricity end-use in the commercial,
industrial, water and sewage, government buildings, and residential sectors, possibly
amounting to more than R$2.7 billion per year.




                                              5

Brazil has long had two government programs to promote energy efficiency, administered
separately for electricity and fuels through the two parastatals, Eletrobrás and Petrobras.
The PROCEL program for electricity was established in late 1985 and has been managed by
Eletrobrás. The National Program for Rational Use of Oil and Natural Gas Derivatives
(CONPET) program for efficiency in the consumption of oil and gas was established in
1991 and is managed by Petrobras. CONPET is mostly focused on initiatives in the
transport sector, and is substantially smaller than PROCEL. In addition to PROCEL, there
are two other programs for electricity efficiency that were established later in the 1990s.
One is the wire-charge on electricity distribution utility company revenues for energy
efficiency which is regulated by ANEEL, the regulator for the power sector; the other is the
RELUZ program for improving efficiency in public lighting using the resources of
Eletrobrás. Both programs operate through the distribution companies and finance projects
developed by them. Since established, at least 55 percent of the wire-charge EE
investments have gone for improving the efficiency for public street lightings because this
was an area of importance for the distribution companies as it would reduce the most
expensive peak demand. At the same time, the RELUZ can finance up to 75 percent of the
investments for public lighting projects. Thus public lighting has been the overwhelming
beneficiary of EE programs in Brazil, even though this segment is responsible for only
3 percent of overall electricity consumption.

Because this project was conceived to support the further development of the PROCEL
program, it is worth describing the program in more detail. The basic PROCEL program
operates by funding or co-funding EE activities such as R&D; education and training;
testing, labeling and standards and marketing. It has subprograms for public buildings,
water and sewage, energy management in municipalities, the PROCEL seal, new buildings,
industry and public lighting. In its first years, this program stimulated many audits of
electricity use, but relatively few investments in retrofits. While the PROCEL program
suffered along with the macro-economy in the early 1990s, it was re-activated in 1994. The
energy savings achieved by PROCEL since 1994 are quite substantial, as shown in Table 1.
Using US$110 million in authorized investments between 1995 and 2000, PROCEL
achieved savings of more than 10 TWh in electricity consumption, thereby averting the need
for more than US$3.6 billion in investments. However, since 1997, the PROCEL budget
has decreased sharply and the program has been downsized. The rationale for the reduction
has been that many of one-time investments in energy efficiency capacity have been made
(testing labs, EE institutions) and that utilities are best able to detect the best opportunities
for cost-effective investments.




                                                6

Table 1 Investments and Results Achieved by PROCEL (1994-2005)

     Results       1994   1995    1996    1997    1998   1999    2000   2001 2002  2003    2004   2005

  Approved         3.3    10.3    17.2    42.1    17.2    13.8    9.0   12.9  20   19.5    45.0   47.0
  investments
  (US$
  millions)
  Saved            344     572    1970    1758    1909   1862    2300   2500 1270  1817    2373   2158
  electricity
  (GWh/yr)
  Avoided           70     103    293     976     532     418    640     600 309    453    622    585
  demand
  (MW)
  Avoided          120     202    693     592     672     655    808     880 450    639    834    760
  Investment
  (US$
  millions) *

Source: ESMAP (2006), Developing financial intermediation mechanisms for energy efficiency projects in
        Brazil, China and India: Brazil country report, with updates from
        http://www.eletrobras.com.br/elb/procel/main.asp
        (*) US$1,00 = R$ 2,10 ( For every year )

The Energy service companies (ESCO) sub-sector in Brazil emerged in the mid-1990s when
several EE programs and energy policy changes contributed to the growth of the market for
energy efficiency services. The logic for ESCOs is that they reduce the risk of the host
company by guaranteeing the energy savings and the need for the host to undertake
balance-sheet financing for the energy efficiency investments. There are actually few
ESCOs in Brazil in the strict sense of operating on performance contracts and providing
financing. More appropriately, they are firms that provide energy consulting services
(usually on a fee for service basis unrelated to energy efficiency performance). The growth
of the energy efficiency market in Brazil has been driven by: (1) the increase in electricity
prices, decrease in inflation, and fall in duties for imported EE goods and equipment which
improved the economics of many projects; (2) the reactivation of PROCEL which
heightened awareness among consumers of the opportunities and benefits of EE measures
for electricity; (3) the electricity rationing in response to the energy crisis; (4) the
wire-charge program and mandatory investments in energy efficiency by electricity
distribution companies; and (5) more recently, entry of natural gas in Brazil and the general
increase in electricity prices of moving away from hydro, which has induced more efficient
use of energy. However, according to the ESMAP-funded three-country study report on
developing financial intermediation mechanisms for energy efficiency projects in Brazil,
China and India (2006), the majority of ESCOs in Brazil are small-sized companies with
less than 10 employees. At most a dozen companies are capable of executing the activities
expected from an ESCO. Contrary to expectations, after the privatization of electric utilities,
only one ESCO was created and currently operates as a subsidiary of the utility. This
demonstrates the lack of incentives that utility companies continue to have to focus on
energy efficiency. Financing was considered to be the most serious barrier to realization of
ESCO projects, and this remains a problem. There are a number of other barriers to ESCO
development in Brazil, including clients underestimating what is involved in implementing



                                                     7

EE measures, low importance attached to projects which do not increase the quality or
quantity of production, and the related hesitation of corporate management to take decisions
on technical operational investments to lower production costs. These issues highlight the
need to improve access of ESCOs to financing and to educate consumers and industry on
the benefits of energy efficiency.

Project Rationale

The energy sector environment at the project preparation stage was characterized by greater
reliance on markets in shaping the structure of the sector; competitive sector participation
becoming the norm, with private firms assuming greater operational tasks, with the
Government playing more of a regulatory role; imported natural gas soon reaching major
metropolitan areas and play a more important role in the future, thus allowing greater fuel
choices for electricity generation and end-users; increasingly cost-based energy prices
fueling greater customer interest in the more efficient use of energy; local capital markets
beginning to look at financing energy sector investments; and the Government moving from
its past function of being the main investment player for energy conservation programs in
favor of a more market-based strategy.

The above-described environment provided a foundation for undertaking EE measures in
Brazil. However, other barriers were still apparent, including, but not limited to: (a) the lack
of public awareness of potential benefits, (b) the lack of credible information on effective
EE measures, and (c) the lack of information, financial, and regulatory support mechanisms.

The proposed project was to support the Government's goal to move toward a market-based
EE strategy. The project consisted of a GEF grant of US$15million. The GEF grant was to
help remove barriers (a) ­ (c) above by: (1) providing core support to the implementation of
EE market-based measures by utilities and consumers, including information dissemination
of best practice cases, public awareness programs, new financial instruments and contractual
arrangements, and labels and standards, and (2) providing capacity building activities
targeted to federal and state regulators and energy agencies. Without the GEF assistance, it
was envisioned that information dissemination on EE practices would remain hampered
without the dissemination of best practices and the monitoring of savings. Institutional
capacity to implement innovative EE measures would remain fragmented and, most likely,
remain at a central level. Participation of private investors and ESCOs would be retarded if
commercial instruments, like performance contracting, were not introduced in the EE
market. The Bank involvement would incorporate its experience in international best
practices into project design and implementation.

6.2 Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

This project was designed to support an Energy Efficiency Program in Brazil. The global
environmental objective of the project was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by
increasing the efficiency of energy supply and use in Brazil using a market-based approach.
The project objective was fully consistent with GEF Operational Program No. 5, namely the
removal of barriers to EE and energy conservation. The objective of OP5 is the


                                               8

dissemination of least-economic cost energy-efficient technologies and the promotion of the
efficient use of energy. The EE program would reduce the risk of climate change by
mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which would help Brazil to meet its
commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change through
intensified national efforts to improve energy efficiency in various sectors.

The key indicators, as set out in the PAD, include: (1) reduction of CO2 emissions
(19.2 million tons in a 10-year period); (3) energy savings of 20.8 TWh over a 10-year
period (PAD Annex 4 of Project Justification); and (4) postponement of investments in
electricity supply (US$300 million per year) over a 10-year period. It is worth noting that
the target values for these indicators were set to be achieved in two phases over 10 years,
but the project being evaluated only covers Phase I for which no intermediate target values
for these key indicators are available.

6.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

There was no change to the project GEO of increasing energy efficiency in Brazil even
though the project was restructured in 2003 (see Section 6.6 on the changes as a result of the
restructuring). The three key indicators remain relevant although their target values cover a
much longer period than the project life. The project output indicators, as approved in
project restructuring, are shown in Table 2.

Table 2 Project output indicators as approved in the 2003 project restructuring
                                                                           Revised
                           Project Output           Key Indicators      Baseline at the Target      Actual
                                                                            time of              Achievement
                                                                         restructuring
                       Completion of the EE     Number of Solar Water   0               210     210
                       activities funded by     Pre-heating Equipments
                      AIBRD and GEF             by CPFL


   COMPONENT
                       Organization and         Energy Efficiency       0 percent       100     100 percent
                       programs exist to make   Reference Center is                     percent
                       credible information     fully operational.
                       available on new EE
                       products, services and   Status of the Marketing 0 percent       100     100 percent

            B          delivery mechanisms.     plan                                    percent
                                                Status of the Publicity 0 percent       100     100 percent
                                                Campaign                                percent
                       EE Financial Facility is Number of financial     0               15      0
                       established, operated by facility projects                               (this
                       a qualified financial    developed                                       component was
             COMPONENT entity and demonstrated                                                  cancelled later)
                       ability to assess,
                       appraise and find
                       necessary funding of
                       qualified EE market-
                       based subprojects based



                                                                 9

           on agreed operational
           practices and eligibility
           criteria.
           The market for EE         Goniophotometer is
           products and services is  fully operative                        100
           working better through    (structure of CEPEL/RJ     0 percent   percent 100 percent

           improved information      Laboratory)
           and market procedures,    Solar Heating systems
           with a system to          laboratory tester is fully             100
           evaluate global market    operative (PUC/MG          0 percent   percent 100 percent

           performance. In order to  Laboratory)
           reach this goal, the      Hydraulic systems
           CEPEL laboratory is       laboratory tests is fully              100
           fully operative.          operative (EFEI/MG         0 percent   percent 100 percent

                                     Laboratory)
                                     Definition of EE                               0
                                     Standards to comply                    100     (this
                                     with Energy Efficiency     0 percent   percent component was
                                     law                                            cancelled later)
           Research on the           Research on Industrial                 100
           industrial, commercial,   sector is done             0 percent   percent 100 percent

           residential and public    Research on
           sectors with the aim of   Commercial sector is       0 percent   100     100 percent
           updating the information  done                                   percent

           about the acceptance of   Research on Residential                100
           the efficient equipments  sector is done             0 percent   percent 100 percent
           by the market has been    Research on Public                     100
           completed.                sector is done             0 percent   percent 100 percent

           An enhanced program       Number of people that
           management unit exists    received technical         0           1800    2650
           with capability to learn  training
           by doing and adapt the    Number of courses
           EE program based on       developed to                                   86

           evaluation of market      Undergraduate and          0           6       (covering 18

           performance of EE         Graduate levels.                               subjects)

           activities and                                                           5 (1 technical
           participants. Moreover,   Number of Technical        0           2       guide and 4
C          strategically people      Guides published                               technical
           linked to the Brazilian                                                  books)
           educational system are                                                   10 (4
           capable to understand     Number of Best                                 specialized
           and promote the Energy    Practice Cases             0           10      manuals; 6 best
           Efficiency Program.       Published                                      practice cases)
 COMPONENT                           Video conference
                                     facility is fully          0 percent   100     100 percent
                                     operative                              percent

                                     Enhancement of
                                     Program Monitoring
                                     and information system,
                                     project management         0 percent   100     100 percent
                                     unit is fully established              percent

                                     and counterpart staff is
                                     selected.




                                                       10

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the GEO, as
well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The original beneficiaries included the target consumer groups of specific programs
supported by the GEF funding. The project was expected to have ripple effects starting with
a small group of direct beneficiaries and then reaching the entire country directly or
indirectly through replication, national standards, and information dissemination. While the
direct beneficiaries for the one demonstration project are obvious--i.e. the user of solar
water pre-heaters, those for information dissemination (e.g., TV campaigns and other
marketing campaigns) and standards and labels are relatively difficult to define because they
target the entire population with electricity access.

After the project restructuring and cancellation of some subcomponents, direct beneficiaries
changed. ESCOs and consumers which would have benefited from the financial facility
component were no longer direct beneficiaries due to the cancellation of this component. In
addition, the state and federal governments and energy agencies which would have
benefited from the capacity building component were no longer direct beneficiaries of this
project. Some of the actions under these components were financed under the Bank's
Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project for Brazil. However, the entire population with
electricity access still benefits from the nationwide energy efficiency marketing campaign,
information dissemination and the testing, and certification and labeling program financed
by the project.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Demonstration Projects (Total cost US$90.2 million, including GEF
US$3.3 million)

The GEF grant was designed to support: (a) transitory financial incentives to energy users to
facilitate demonstration of innovative technologies and delivery arrangements through
demonstration projects; and (b) monitoring and evaluation studies that will contribute to the
preparation of "best practice" case studies.

Component B: Core Support Activities

This component was designed to facilitate replication of the demonstration projects and
other financially sound EE projects. It included:

(a) Information dissemination, and marketing programs, including a Best Practice Program.
(Total cost US$8.9 million, including GEF US$3.4 million)

(b) Implementation and initialization of a financial facility to support EE measures by
ESCOs and consumers, including building a portfolio of EE projects and preparing them for
commercial financing by third parties. (Total cost US$5.2 million, including GEF
US$1.6 million).
(c) Implementation of programs for testing, certification, and labeling of efficient equipment
and appliances, including motors, lamps, lighting ballasts, refrigerators, freezers, air


                                               11

conditioners, and solar and heat pump water heaters. (Total cost US$3.4 million, including
GEF US$1.3 million)

(d) Research activities to improve the evaluation of its EE programs and evaluate their
impact in the energy market. These assessments would include: (i) commercial and public
buildings sector surveys; (ii) industrial sector surveys; (iii) energy efficiency potential; (iv)
global market evaluation; and (v) social and environmental impacts. (Total cost US$2.7
million, including GEF US$0.9 million)

Component C: Capacity Building Module (CBM)

This component was designed to reinforce the institutional capacity of public energy
agencies, regulators, and other participants in the EE market to implement EE measures. It
would finance:

(a) Training and Education which included: (i) Technical Training on reducing commercial
and technical losses, ESCO development support, building energy management, end-use EE
programs, and regulatory issues; (ii) Management and Administrative Training on bidding
and procurement procedures and on project management for project managers in PROCEL,
participating utilities, and state agencies on physical and financial control systems and the
new project analysis data system; (iii) PROCEL in Public and Private Schools; and (iv)
PROCEL in Technical Schools and Universities. (Total cost US$3.8 million, including
GEF US$1.3 million)

(b) Support to Federal and State Energy Agencies and Regulatory Organizations. (Total cost
US$5.8 million, including GEF US$2.2 million)

(c) Support to Project Management. Evaluation and Information Systems. (Total cost
US$5.5 million, including GEF US$1.0 million)


6.6 Revised Components

The project was restructured in May 2003 and there were some subsequent changes to the
GEF-funded activities that the Bank agreed with the borrower. The rationale for project
restructuring and other changes is discussed below.

During 2001 Brazil experienced a major energy supply crisis as a result of a prolonged
drought, compounded by the country's heavy dependence on hydroelectric energy, and
under-investment in energy supply capacity for a number of years. As a result of the
electricity supply shortages, the Government was forced to institute a power rationing
program from May 2001 to February 2002, which was highly successful in achieving
voluntary (subject to high above-quota tariffs) consumption reductions. However, this fall in
consumption reduced electricity distribution companies' revenues, with severe negative
impact on their finances. Moreover, it was expected that electricity consumption would
remain 10 percent below the pre-crisis levels in the next 12 month after the rationing.
Because of regulatory lag, distribution tariffs remained depressed and distribution
companies continued to face cash shortfalls. As a result, their attention was focused on


                                              12

reducing their own costs and had little incentive to promote energy efficiency initiatives,
such as the ones envisaged by Component A demonstration projects. In addition, companies
in financial difficulty wanted to avoid borrowing in dollars and increasing their exposure to
foreign exchange risks. Due to the lack of progress in the implementation of Component A,
in November 2002, Eletrobrás requested partial cancellation of the funding to this
component to be in line with the actual demand for resources to finance energy
demonstration projects.

In May 2003, the Bank Board of Directors approved the project restructuring package which
included partial cancellation of the Bank loan and the strengthening of the testing and
labeling program, among other changes. The reasons for strengthening the testing and
labeling program were as follows. The original Project concept was to use component A
(Demonstration Projects) to attract consumers' attention to the potential savings to be gained
from energy efficiency projects. Components B and C would then disseminate information
about energy efficiency best practices. During the power rationing that was in effect in
2001, consumers were persuaded to reduce their consumption by 20 percent on average.
During that period, sales of PROCEL certified high efficiency light bulbs increased four
times in relation to sale levels prevailing before the rationing period. The rationing program
turned out to be a startling lesson about the possibilities for energy conservation and
efficiency, though less was learned on the long-term effects on consumer behavior from the
short-term rationing program. In the restructured project, Component B was to be used to
capitalize on the newly acquired customer awareness of the importance and potential for
energy efficiency and was thus strengthened with an elevated level of funding (see Table 3).

The changes to the project financing structure over the project life are shown in Table 1.
The changes to specific project activities are described below.

Table 3 Project Financing Structure Over Project Life

       Component                  Original           2003 Project
                                                    Restructuring                Actual

 A. Demonstration          Total: 90.2          Total: 0.5              Total: 0.5
 projects                  GEF: 3.3             GEF: 0.20               GEF: 0.08
 B. Core Support
 a) Information and        Total: 8.9           Total: 15.06
 Marketing                 GEF: 3.4             GEF: 3.33               GEF: 2.57
 b) Financial facility     Total: 5.2           Total: 1.68             Dropped
                           GEF: 1.6             GEF: 0.00
 c) Testing, Certification Total: 3.4           Total: 5.47
 and labeling              GEF: 1.3             GEF: 5.12               GEF: 5.78
 d) Market assessment      Total: 2.7           Total: 4.16
                           GEF: 0.9             GEF: 1.50               GEF: 1.32
 C. Capacity Building
 a) Training               Total: 3.8           Total: 3.39
                           GEF: 1.3             GEF: 0.76               GEF: 1.58
 b) Support to agencies    Total: 5.8           Total: 0.0              Dropped
                           GEF: 2.2             GEF: 0.0
 c) Project management     Total: 5.5           Total: 5.24
                           GEF: 1.0             GEF: 0.99               GEF: 0.57




                                              13

Component A: Demonstration Projects

As a result of the 2003 restructuring, only the solar water preheater project remained with a
GEF funding of US$0.2 million. The remaining GEF funds for Component A of US$3.1
million were cancelled.

Component B: Core Support Activities

(a) Information Dissemination and Marketing ­ There were no changes to specific activities
in this subcomponent.

(b) EE Financial Facility and Portfolio Building ­ The component remained but with a
reduced financing level after the 2003 restructuring. At the time, the Brazilian Capital
Market Institute (the Instituto Brasileiro de Mercados de Capitais, or IBMEC), in
partnership with other institutions, including the Brazilian ESCO association (ABESCO),
started to develop a facility along the same lines as that envisioned under the GEF project.
However, the problems in the ESCO business in Brazil were multi-faceted and profound as
described in the introduction section, and it therefore required more time and resources to
solve than this project could provide. It was therefore agreed with the Government at the
time of restructuring that the resources allocated for this subcomponent could be better used
to strengthen the Testing, Certification and Labeling Program and that the results could be
achieved in shorter time period. Therefore, this subcomponent was cancelled.

(c) Testing, Certification and Labeling Program ­ this subcomponent was given greater
emphasis during the restructuring to reflect and build upon new consumer awareness
towards EE. The laboratory capacity program was strengthened.

In addition, with the introduction of the Law on Energy Efficiency (LEE) in October 2001
(Law No. 10.295/2001), this program was also used to support the implementation of this
new legislation. The law would establish the maximum level of consumption and the
minimum levels of EE for equipment and consumer appliances commercialized in Brazil. A
consortium of consultants in April 2004 was hired to elaborate the priorities and
methodologies for establishing the EE guidelines and standards for appliances, buildings
and equipment and to evaluate the laboratory capacity for testing, investment needs, and the
impacts of the implementation of the LEE. However, by September 2005, the consortium
had made very little progress and the quality of the technical reports delivered by them was
of poor quality. Thus the consultant contract for the work was terminated prematurely. The
Ministry of Mines and Energy continued the work with its own funding.

(d) Marketing Assessment Program ­ No changes to specific activities.

Component C: Capacity Building Module

(a) Training and Education ­ As the ESCO support program was cancelled under
Component B, the training for ESCOs and individuals and companies considering entering
the ESCO business was modified accordingly. The project restructuring included the
preparation and publication of best practice case studies, business and technical guides,
relevant to EE in Brazil, and in accordance with other projects, to the market assessment and


                                              14

to the LEE. In order to disseminate EE practices throughout the country, this subcomponent
included support for a video-conferencing system.

(b) Support to Federal and State Energy Agencies and Regulatory Organizations ­ this
activity was cancelled at the restructuring. Capacity building resources for these agencies
and regulators are envisaged in another Bank project ­ the ESTAL (Energy Sector Reform
Technical Assistance Loan ­ Project ID: P076977).

(c) Support to Project Management, Evaluation and Information Systems ­ this activity was
kept mostly unaltered; however, the project subcomponent that was intended to contribute to
the synergies between the ESCOs and other industry players was cancelled.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)


Other significant changes included the funding level of the GEF grant and the
implementation timetable of the project. The GEF funding was reduced from US$15
million to US$11.9 million and US$3.1 million was cancelled. The project was approved in
September 1999 and was originally scheduled to become effective in January 2000. The
GEF Grant agreement was signed in December 2000 and the project actually became
effective in February 2001. Downsizing at Eletrobrás delayed compliance with two key
effectiveness conditions -- staffing the Project Management Unit (PMU) and signing two
subsidiary agreements with project participants in demonstration projects.

The project closing date was extended from the original December 31, 2003 to December
31, 2004 during the 2003 restructuring due to lack of progress in implementation. It was
then extended to December 31, 2005 and finally to June 30, 2006. When the project was
restructured in 2003, the disbursement rate was very low. The PMU's staffing capacity
improved somewhat, but there had been no proven record in the success of the PMU in
project implementation. In this regard, the Bank team decided to take a cautious approach
by granting only a one-year extension to give the PMU a chance to perform. Upon
satisfactory progress in the first year after project restructuring, another year of extension
followed. The final extension was granted to complete the procurement and disbursement
of key elements of the restructured components.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


Eletrobrás, sponsor of PROCEL, first sought the Bank's support to establish a self sustaining
market for energy efficiency in Brazil in 1995. The project preparation started in 1997 when
Brazil was in the middle of moving toward cost-based energy pricing and the government
was promoting efficient use of energy, particularly electricity, at a time of increasing risks
of supply shortage. The government's pro-energy efficiency policies (as evidenced by the
strong PROCEL program and other EE initiatives), in combination with a relatively stable



                                               15

economy and rising energy prices, provided the basis for seeking to overcome other barriers
to increased EE.

The factors affecting project preparation and design and quality at entry include:

(a) The project fully supported the government's energy sector priorities, sector-related CAS
objectives and GEF Operational Strategy in improving energy efficiency and protecting the
global environment. The 1998 CAS progress report indicated that one of the Government's
energy sector aims was to support programs and technologies for efficient supply and use of
energy. The project was designed to address this by demonstrating and making available a
broader set of effective and environmentally sound EE measures than those currently
available to energy suppliers, users, and service providers.

(b) To remove the barriers for the efficient use of energy, the project chose a market-based
approach rather than a "command and control" approach. The market-based approach was
designed to take place in two phases: first to demonstrate cost-effective measures in selected
utilities and different end-use sectors, to develop a standards and labeling program and set
up a market-based support structure for ESCOs, and then to disseminate the best practices
and expand the ESCOs to all sub-sectors. It was expected that at the end of the program,
there would be a number of participants with demonstrated success in emerging
technologies, use of price signals (e.g., time of day tariffs) and service options, etc. and
increased use of more efficient appliances and energy equipment.

(c) The project considered a range of alternatives, but they were rejected for justifiable
reasons. One alternative rejected was to continue meeting energy needs solely through the
expansion of the energy supply system. Investment needs in the power sector for this
alternative were estimated at US$6-7 billion per year, which would have been difficult to
mobilize. The alternative of a simple credit line to support EE investments was discarded
because similar initiatives in Brazil and other countries had failed in addressing market
barriers. The alternative of a single long-term investment operation was rejected because
the success of the EE program requires the participation and support of many organizations
and progressive, flexible mobilization arrangements for which an APL was more suitable.

(d) The project design incorporated lessons learned from similar EE projects in both Brazil
and other countries by the Bank and other development agencies as well as from other
recent energy projects in Brazil. The lessons learned and incorporated in project design
included: (1) working in parallel, but separately, on macroeconomic/sectoral and project
issues, as in the past ineffective financial rehabilitation undermined the credibility of the
financial covenants; (2) an enabling environment was needed for any changes to electric
tariff levels and was provided by the current sector privatization and restructuring; (3)
taking into account the trade-off between good implementation by the stronger companies in
the well-developed regions and the greater needs on the part of the poorer companies in
other regions by including participants from geographical areas of different development
levels; (4) pricing and regulatory reforms were necessary for implementing the DSM
measures as shown by projects in Thailand, Mexico and Jamaica. Help from experts
working on PROCEL and DSM programs in other countries was used in the project design;
and (5) the expansion of EE activities in Brazil, as shown elsewhere, entails a learning



                                               16

process requiring the participation of different actors that receive the correct market and
regulatory signals over a period of time to prepare them for mainstreaming energy
efficiency measures.

(e) A number of potential project risks were stated in the PAD, and measures were
developed for their mitigation. However, several risks that eventually materialized were
listed as negligible or were not listed at all. The risk of "the lack of interest in
demonstration projects" by utilities was listed as "negligible". However, even before the
energy crisis of 2001-2002, the interest of utilities in demand-side energy efficiency
investments was limited, and it took one year for Eletrobrás to sign the required two
subsidiary agreements for project effectiveness. This lack of interest was exacerbated by
the energy crisis. Two other risks that were not considered significant in the PAD were high
interest rates and their affect on EE investments by utilities or consumers directly or through
ESCOs, and fluctuations in exchange rates between Real and US dollar which also affected
the utilities' decision-making and ultimately contributed to the cancellation of the World
Bank loan. The energy crisis did not cause the upheaval in Brazil's credit and foreign
exchange markets -- high interest rates and currency risk already existed at the time the of
the project's inception.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)


The main project changes/restructuring has been discussed in Section 6.6 above. The other
key factors affecting implementation and outcomes were the following:

The positive factors affecting project implementation include:

(a) The Energy Efficiency Law No. 10.295/2001 was enacted in 2001. The Law stipulates
that the government determines the maximum level of energy consumption and the
minimum requirement for energy efficiency for commercial equipment. This regulatory
structure has been essential for widely disseminating the domestic and international best
practices by the project.

(b) The project restructuring was approved in 2003 in response to the lack of progress in the
first two years of project implementation. The restructuring reinforced the components of
information dissemination and testing, certification and labeling to capitalize on the higher
level of public awareness on energy efficiency measures after the 2001/2002 energy crisis.

(c) An effectively functioning PMU after project restructuring ensured project completion,
with most of the project disbursements taking place in the last two years of the project.
Credit is due to the support of Eletrobrás leadership during this time, the dedication and
qualification of the incumbent project coordinator and team members, as well as the UNDP-
Brazil office which provided technical advisory services on procurement.




                                               17

The project was negatively affected by the following factors during implementation:

(a) High interest rates in Brazil. With the nominal interest rate having never been lower
than 16 percent per year during the project life, and with loans to energy efficiency
developers typically costing well above 20 percent interest, it has been difficult for ESCOs
to undertake EE projects and to convince commercial banks to lend money even for highly
profitable projects.

(b) Eletrobrás' higher-level management changed several times during the project life. At
the start of the project, upper management in Eletrobrás did not adequately delegate
decision-making to the PMU, and Eletrobrás as a whole was constrained by lack of
knowledge of Bank procedures, causing serious delays in implementation. Some key staff
members who championed the preparation of this project left the company before project
effectiveness which affected the process and support for some demonstration projects.

(c) The procurement approach used in the early years of implementation -- lumping various
lots of specialized research equipment in several International Competitive Bids (ICBs) --
yielded very poor competition. In fact there was only one bidder for most of the bids. An
inadequate number of equipment suppliers responded to the solicitation of proposals for
certain types of lab equipment, resulting in the delay in procurement of testing and
certification equipment. Upon identifying this problem in 2004, the Bank team
recommended a different approach for procurement of specialized equipment, beginning
with a large advertisement for all equipment remaining to be procured, and then grouping
the equipment into different procurement packages according to the response of business
markets. This new approach proved successful: it attracted the manufacturers themselves,
not resellers, with competitive prices.

The project risk was rated substantial in the first Project Status Reports (PSR) in March
2000 and changed to modest in July 2000 after the implementing agency Eletrobrás took
actions to meet the effectiveness conditions, including setting-up the Project Management
Unit (PMU) and seeking to sign subsidiary agreements with project participants. The project
risk was elevated from modest to high in May 2003 as a result of the implementation delays,
brought on by a change in the Administration within Eletrobrás and this rating remained
until August 23, 2004.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD included key performance indicators, targets at the end of the project, and the
methods to monitor and evaluate to ensure the realization of project objectives and
outcomes. The indicators are relevant and adequate to measure the performance of the
project, including the energy savings and climate change benefits of the project.

The independent market performance evaluations and PROCEL reports were to help gauge
the extent to which the targets for some key indicators such as energy savings and CO2
emission reduction were achieved under the project. The initial market survey has been
completed for low-voltage consumers (residential, commercial, and some light industrial)
and shows that the impact of the GEF support on EE market development appears to be


                                             18

large. Refrigerators are a notable example of early success with the standards and labeling
program, where 100 percent of the refrigerators in the market are labeled with energy
efficiency ratings, 40 percent of the all refrigerator models in Brazil have received PROCEL
seals, and 55 percent of the refrigerators sold in the market in Brazil are PROCEL-sealed.
As the World Bank will continue to be involved with energy efficiency in Brazil, this
information, when completed, will be useful for identifying the remaining issues and needs
in energy efficiency and provide a solid information base for future interventions.

The project procurement records and the Bank's disbursement data are well maintained and
archived. The disbursement and procurement information has been used for evaluating the
implementation progress and project completion.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated Category C for environmental assessment. No adverse environmental
effects have been reported as a result of the project as the majority of the project activities
consists of low-impact items such as training, purchase of equipment, marketing,
information dissemination, and empirical studies.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The market-based approach to promoting EE measures in Brazil will be sustained through
the following.

First, the EE information center will continue be maintained by the PROCEL program after
the project. The information center serves as a one-stop shop for compilation and
dissemination of the EE-related information. It has set up and operated an Internet portal for
this purpose. It will receive budgetary support by the Government under PROCEL to
maintain and disseminate the information that has been collected and compiled under the
GEF project.

Second, the strengthened laboratory capacity in testing and certification of EE products will
remain in place with the growing demand by the product manufacturers and suppliers. The
laboratories which received GEF support entered into an agreement with
ELETROBRÁS/PROCEL for the right to use the equipment for the first five years. A
service flow is to be agreed during this period; otherwise, ELETROBRÁS/PROCEL will
take back the equipment and will solicit other hosting institutes. ELETROBRÁS/PROCEL
monitor the usage of the equipment of different labs on a six-month basis. The hosting
laboratories will own the equipment after five years and the operation and maintenance
costs will be covered by a service charge. Initial evidence showed that the service charge is
sufficient to provide a reliable source of revenue for the labeling program. Given the
heightened public awareness of energy efficiency and increased demand of EE products, the
demand for EE testing and certification has been increasing and is expected to continue to



                                                19

grow in the future as the impact of the PROCEL program further unfolds. Therefore, these
testing labs are expected to be self-sustaining as service providers.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


Brazil's development strategy is defined in the federal government's Multiyear Plan (PPA).
The 2004-2007 PPA aims at progress along five dimensions: economic, social, regional,
environmental, and democratic. This strategy is reflected in the 2004-2007 CAS, which
envisages a more equitable, sustainable, and competitive Brazil. Increasing the efficiency of
the energy market in Brazil can help the country improve competitiveness and achieve
sustainable economic growth, which is at the core of both PPA and CAS. More importantly,
despite recent improvements in the current account, Brazil's external financing needs are
still pressing and fiscal space is limited. Therefore, reducing the needs for infrastructure
capacity expansion by improving energy efficiency appears particularly relevant in terms of
budgets and costs.

With respect to global priorities, the GEF Operational Program 5 aims to reduce barriers to
energy efficiency and energy conservation. The objective of the program is to be achieved
by removing barriers to large-scale application, implementation, and dissemination of least-
economic cost energy-efficient technologies; and by promoting more efficient energy use.
The recent (July 15-17, 2006) G8 Summit in Russia has adopted an action plan focusing on
energy security, economic growth and environmental protection. Within the energy security
action plan, one of the investment areas mentioned was energy efficiency and energy
savings. Therefore, the project objective is in line with these global priorities.

After the 2001 energy supply crisis with the loss of revenues and inadequate electricity
supply capacity, distribution utilities became less motivated to invest in energy efficiency.
However, as a result of the crisis, consumers became more energy efficiency aware; in
addition, in 2001 the Energy Efficiency Law (LEE), Law No. 10.295/2001, was passed in
Congress. The changes in project design and implementation reflected this new scenario.

8.2 Achievement of Global Environment Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs
in Annex 4)

The project incorporated the global environmental objective to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by helping remove barriers to the increase in energy efficiency. The achievement
of the objective is measured by energy savings, reduction in CO2 emissions and
postponement in investment in electricity supply. The target values of these key permanence
indicators were set to be achieved by the end of the EE program, 10 years after project
approval in 1999.

According to ANEEL, the distribution companies have invested on average US$100 million
per year on EE projects since 1999 with partial funding from the wire-charge and other
programs, resulting in energy savings of 5,218 GWh over the 7-year period or 0.2 percent of


                                                20

the country's total consumption. This is equivalent to a reduction of 4.8 million tons CO2
emissions. The PROCEL program, which received the GEF grant for strengthening and
expanding its operations, yielded energy savings of 13.3 TWh from 1999 to 2005, which
corresponded to 12 million tons of CO2. The postponed investment in 2005 was estimated at
around US$790 million. What portion of these benefits achieved by PROCEL can be
attributed to the GEF funding is a difficult question for two reasons. First, GEF funding was
used to complement PROCEL's own budget for continuing operations of its activities and is
therefore almost impossible to separate the impacts of the two. Second, the activities which
received GEF support tend to have long-lasting impacts far beyond the project life, and at
the moment it is premature to gauge their full impact on energy efficiency. As a rough
estimate, we can assume the GEF funding has the same per-dollar level of impact as the
PROCEL funding. The GEF funding is equivalent to the annual average of the PROCEL
funding between 1999-2005; thus the benefits brought about by GEF would be equivalent
to the annual averages of the total benefits of the PROCEL between 1999-2005, i.e. 2 TWh
of energy savings and 1.7 million tons of CO2 emission reduction. In addition, there was
evidence of significant leveraging effect of the GEF funding on EE investments in Brazil.
Most of the GEF funding of US$11.9 million was disbursed in 2004 and 2005 (see Annex
3(c) of project disbursement profile). Over the same period, the total approved investments
by PROCEL increased from US$20 million in 2002-3 to more than US$45 million in 2004-
5 based on available PROCEL data.

Critical to the final outcome on energy savings and the effectiveness of Procel and GEF
funding is the effect of the energy supply crisis and power rationing on consumer behavior
and EE awareness. According to the preliminary results of the market survey, some EE
measures adopted by the consumer ­ such as the use of compact-fluorescent light bulbs ­
were permanent. The energy supply crisis partly circumvented the role of the project by
demonstrating EE measures and their savings potential. The crisis also had a negative
impact on the finances of electricity distribution companies which reduced their interest in
improving energy efficiency for other than loss reduction.

The project's accomplishments have been significant in facilitating the removal of market
barriers to EE and energy conservation in Brazil. The first barrier was lack of public
awareness of energy efficiency potential. The GEF-funded activities helped establish an EE
information center to disseminate information on EE products, services and delivery
mechanisms, delivering a marketing strategy and action plan and a public marketing
campaign, and increasing consumer awareness of the PROCEL seal. The information center
is operational as a pilot and includes (i) an internet portal; (ii) a SAC (Serviço de
Atendimento ao Cidadão, i.e. a Service Center) to answer calls, questions and information
requests from citizens; (iii) an Operation and Development Group (trained staff to operate
and maintain the portal and SAC); and (iv) a Consultative Board (supervision and definition
of guidelines and policies for the center). Through the acquisition and installation of testing
equipment, the project helped establish 23 specialized laboratories around the country for
testing and certifying the efficiency of equipment and appliances. Following the marketing
campaign supported under the project, the recognition of the PROCEL seal was increased
from 35 to 45 percent.




                                               21

A second barrier was the lack of credible information on effective EE measures. The project
addressed this problem through the development of best practice manuals and technical
guidebooks, by conducting research on the EE potential and the market in the industrial,
commercial, residential and public sectors, and by implementing a comprehensive training
program. The training had 2,650 participants in total and delivered 86 courses in 12 cities
covering different geographical areas. One technical guide, four practical manuals, four
books, and six case studies were published.

The third barrier was the lack of supporting mechanisms. The project was designed to
address this by implementing a financial facility to support EE measures by ESCOs,
including building a portfolio of EE projects and preparing them for commercial financing
by third parties. The envisioned facility would develop and disseminate commercial and
financial instruments for these purposes. ESCOs in Brazil have been developing, albeit
slowly, in spite of the cancellation of the Financial Facility component under the project.
Banks and other financial agents are beginning to understand more about the special
characteristics of the ESCO business and of EE project financing. BNDES, the national
development bank, has established a pilot credit guarantee facility called PROESCO in mid-
2006 after years. The PROESCO mechanism is similar to what the project was envisioned
to support. Nonetheless, the market environment for ESCO-related activities has remained
difficult (high interest rates, small ESCOs with limited credit, lack of commercial bank
interest), and the cancellation of the ESCO support program under the GEF project reflected
these larger market problems. The project could have contributed further towards the
accomplishment of its objectives had it managed to advance on the component of EE
financing facility and portfolio building.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


Not applicable.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In Brazil, as in most developing countries, there is a large potential for increasing the
efficiency in the use of energy in all its forms. Achieving even a fraction of the potential
energy savings could bring substantial economic, social and environmental benefits for
society. Considering only electricity, the potential in Brazil is estimated to be around
R$5 billion per year (US$2.3 billion). These savings would also be associated with
reductions with CO2 emissions. Considering that annual CO2 emissions from thermal
generation are expected to grow substantially in Brazil, increasing EE is especially
important. More importantly, energy savings are expected to benefit consumers. The
PROCEL program has certainly had an important impact on improving the efficiency of
energy use in Brazil, and the GEF project helped accelerate and focus PROCEL in key
areas, namely a national standards and labeling program, improved information, and



                                              22

training and dissemination. Exactly how much of the energy savings achieved under
PROCEL during project implementation can be attributed to the GEF project is uncertain,
but can be related to the effectiveness of those parts of the PROCEL program that received
GEF support. Another uncertainty relates to how much of the energy savings and
conservation achieved by PROCEL can be considered permanent. Probably the most
important source of gains has been the consolidation of the labeling, testing and voluntary
certification program (through the PROCEL seal).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has had a positive net social impact. Even without factoring in the indirect
benefit on consumers from overall energy savings, consumers have benefited from the
improved labeling and certification, as well as from more available EE information. In
addition, a pilot project installed solar water pre-heaters, benefiting directly low-income
households in the municipality of Americana (São Paulo).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project has had both direct and indirect institutional benefits for PROCEL, some of
which are likely to be permanent. Information platforms, a system of labels and standards,
and the training of staff for these and other energy efficiency activities have been put in
place within PROCEL and its associated laboratories. Notwithstanding the initial project
staffing and implementation difficulties, it appears that a cohort of additional quality staff
have been put in place in PROCEL through the project. The maintenance of this
institutional capacity will depend in part on management decisions by the Government and
Eletrobrás for PROCEL.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

This is a core ICR, for which no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were
conducted.

9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The global environment outcome of the project is that greenhouse gas emissions from the
electricity sector in Brazil are reduced through the reduction in electricity consumption as a
result of adoption of energy efficiency measures. The adoption of energy efficiency
measures was achieved by providing better public access to energy efficiency-related
information, conducting marketing campaigns for energy efficiency products, implementing



                                                23

the testing, certification and labeling program for energy efficient products, training
professionals and the public on energy efficiency measures and policy, and disseminating
energy efficiency practices.

The risk that the project's global environment outcome will not be sustained is judged as
moderate for the following reasons. First, the enhanced public awareness in energy
efficiency is likely to continue into the future and not disappear when the project closes.
Second, since many energy efficient electric appliances such as refrigerators and TV sets
have a lifetime of more than 10 years, the increased purchase of these appliances as shown
in the preliminary market assessment will have a lasting effect beyond the project life.
Third, the testing and certification of equipment funded by the project are expected to
continue. CEPEL will own the equipment and will enter into contractual agreements with
the hosting labs in terms of the right of use. CEPEL monitors the usage of the equipment bi-
annually upon which CEPEL will determine whether to maintain the agreements. The
hosting labs are expected to cover the operating and maintenance costs through service
charges to energy efficient appliance manufacturers.

Moderate risk exists with regards to the EE Information Dissemination Center. It is housed
in the PROCEL program in Eletrobrás and its operation largely depends on the funding
availability for PROCEL. Although PROCEL's funding has declined since 1997, the total
energy efficiency investments have been on the rise (see G. Jannuzzi, 2005. Power sector
reforms in Brazil and its impacts on energy efficiency and research and development
activities, Energy Policy, Vol.33, pp 1753-1762.) Given the profile of PROCEL, that was
heightened by the crisis and the GEF project, it is probable that the government and
Eletrobrás will continue funding the program.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


The project was consistent with the government's energy sector strategy and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The project built on the national EE program (PROCEL)
which had already carried out and overseen hundreds of EE projects and had achieved
significant benefits in electric energy savings. The project activities with the GEF grant
essentially aimed to expand PROCEL activities in standards and labeling, training,
marketing, communication and the further development of ESCOs.

The Bank team identified shortcomings in institutional arrangements and managerial and
technical capacity within Eletrobrás as high risk in the project preparation stage.
Nonetheless, the choice of Eletrobrás as the implementing agency had clear advantages: (1)
Eletrobrás would take advantage of its structure already in place for executing PROCEL; (2)



                                              24

Eletrobrás would continue to use its Physical-Financial Information System introduced in
1996, which provides adequate monitoring of the activities. The measures proposed to
minimize this risk--creation of a project management unit (PMU) and implementation of the
capacity building component targeting the PMU--were proven effective in other Bank
projects. Sufficient GEF funding was allocated for project management. However, the
departure of some key staff in Eletrobrás and constant changes in Eletrobrás' management
contributed to the delay in effectiveness and implementation.

In hindsight the Bank was probably overly optimistic with respect to the demonstration
projects. The incentives that the distribution companies had with respect to energy
efficiency were limited to utilities facing near-term supply constraints, where energy
efficiency was the least-cost and fastest option, to loss reduction (such as with non-paying
customers), and to load management measures whereby consumers could be shifted away
from high-cost peak power and in the process save on peak power capacity and generation.
While the energy crisis was not foreseen, the weakness in demand for energy efficiency by
utilities could have been better anticipated, and at least flagged as a potential risk. In
addition, there were no time schedules for achieving the performance indicators.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory


The project, over its course, saw the departure of numerous key staff and multiple changes
in project leadership within Eletrobrás, the occurrence of the energy crisis in 2001/2002, and
the change of government in 2003. Despite the delay in project implementation and the
cancellation of the loan components, the Bank team worked with its counterparts in a
consultative and open-minded manner for solutions to ensuring that the project be adapted
to the new circumstances so that the project objectives could be met. The Bank team
closely monitored the 2001-02 energy crisis and was engaged with different stakeholders to
discuss the national EE emergency measures during power rationing and the implications
for this GEF project. Eventually it was agreed that the GEF funding was still relevant and
should proceed (at a slightly reduced level) and that some of the original project activities
should be adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Two to three missions were typically
undertaken every year and PSRs/ISRs and Aide Memoirs were produced. The Bank team
diagnosed the implementation capacity constraints in the PMU early in the implementation
stage and communicated it explicitly to the Government and to Eletrobrás. The project
closing date was extended three times for a total of two and a half years to allow the project
to be completed. The implementation progress ratings were reported "unsatisfactory" for
only May 2002-May 2003, whereas there had been no implementation activities under the
project between February 2001 and May 2002.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although there were problems at entry, including with the design of the demonstration
projects, once restructured by the Bank, the project performed satisfactorily. Given that the


                                               25

Bank performance ratings for supervision were satisfactory, and that this remained over the
following four years of implementation, the overall Bank performance is moderately
satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The Government's performance is considered moderately satisfactory. The national energy
conservation program, housed at Eletrobrás, had achieved significant benefits in energy
savings, development and commercialization of various new technologies and avoiding
adverse environmental impacts resulting from use of fossil fuels by 1995. Valuable lessons
had been learned from the first 10 plus years of PROCEL implementation. The government
was motivated to expand the PROCEL using the Bank and GEF funding along with other
resources, to capitalize on the achievements made in the first phase of the program.
However, as with other projects in Brazil, there was a delay in the approval of the GEF
project by the government by more than one year.

The Government of Brazil instructed the implementing agency to meet the conditions for
effectiveness before signing any contracts involving Bank/GEF funding. Effectiveness
conditions were that: (a) the PMU in Eletrobrás was set up and operating; and (b) at least
two subsidiary agreements were signed with project participants and the respective Project
Implementation Units are set up and operating. Meeting these conditions helped the project
to be launched with some confidence. In addition, the 2001-02 energy crisis, while
undesirable, created some incentives for implementing EE measures as consumers were
effectively required to reduce electricity consumption by 20 percent. The focus by the
government on the energy crisis naturally drew attention and resources away from the GEF
project. However, the EE measures adopted by the government in its Energy Conservation
Strategic Emergency Program were also included in this project. The public procurement
process in Brazil hindered progress on the project and ultimately led to the hiring of UNDP
as the procurement agent.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency         Performance

               The performance of the Implementing Agency Eletrobrás is rated moderately
               satisfactory and there was significant variation over time. The PMU in the
Centrais       last two years of project implementation was equipped with committed and
Eletricas      qualified PMU staff that performed admirably. The PMU staff at Eletrobrás
Brasileiras S/Ashowed willingness to learn and get things done right even though
               sometimes it involved the restructuring/reissuing of the procurement
               packages. Project procurement was greatly helped by hiring UNDP as


                                             26

                procurement agent to compensate the inexperience of Eletrobrás in Bank
                procurement procedures and preempt Eletrobrás's complicated bureaucracy.
                Subcontracting the UNDP expertise in procurement was overall a wise
                decision made by Eletrobrás. Not only was the procurement process sped up,
                but also it was an on-the-job training for the PMU staff. Eletrobrás even
                placed a full-time staff member in the UNDP-Brazil office to speed up the
                procurement process.

                However, at the beginning of project implementation, the staffing of the
                PMU was insufficient to implement the project as planned. The decision
                process in Eletrobrás and the allocation of approval responsibilities did not
                allow for making decisions in a timely manner. Between 2000 and 2003, the
                Bank Supervision reports continuously rated institutional arrangements and
                managerial and technical capacity as "high risk." Not until December 2003
                was this risk factor downgraded from high to modest. Until then, Eletrobrás
                failed to take prompt corrective measures in a timely fashion that were
                agreed with the Bank. In addition, personnel changes in Eletrobrás affected
                negatively staffing the PMU in a timely manner which was one of the
                effectiveness conditions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Since all of the performance ratings above are moderately satisfactory the overall
Borrower's performance rating is moderately satisfactory.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

There are several main lessons from the project that should be used in subsequent GEF and
World Bank energy efficiency projects.

(1) Demand-side management (DSM) programs can be successful only if the underlying
incentives of the regulatory framework are in place and correct. Electricity utilities will not
have an automatic incentive to invest in energy efficiency measures ­ although they may
have incentives to shift demand or to delay investments in new capacity, also depending on
the regulatory framework ­ because this will lower their sales and revenues. Consumers, on
the other hand, do have an incentive to improve energy efficiency, but often lack sufficient
information on specific cost-effective measures and the means to finance investments. For
these reasons, standards and labeling programs like the one supported by this project can be
very important for improving energy efficiency by setting minimum efficiency standards for
energy-consuming equipment. By the same token, providing better information to energy
consumers can help them make more informed choices about their energy consumption. The
project improved the information for consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency, and
through the standards program -- that was applied to selected appliances -- reduced the
energy consumption of specific equipment relative to what would have been the case
otherwise.



                                                27

(2) The rationing program that was put in place in 2002 to deal with severe cuts in
electricity supply was effective in reducing consumption, but also resulted in large financial
losses to the distribution utilities that have been being made up through utility bills since the
crisis. Throughout the crisis, utilities in Brazil had some incentive to reduce their losses --
from non-payment and theft -- through energy efficiency measures, such as improved street
lighting from non-paying municipalities and improved lighting and energy efficiency
appliances in poor residential neighborhoods. Other energy efficiency measures -- among
paying customers -- was much more limited since it reduced utility revenue, and during the
rationing program, demand was being reduced largely without investment in permanent
energy efficiency measures.

(3) The rate of return on many energy efficiency projects will be reduced where interest
rates for credit are high, as has been the case in Brazil for the past fifteen years. While many
EE projects can have rates of return of 25 percent or more, when interest rates are 15-20
percent or more, banks will look for projects with much higher rates of return or will put
their money in investments with limited or no risk, such as government debt in the case of
Brazil Future operations should be realistic in their expectations when trying to establish an
ESCO industry when the underlying financial conditions are weak.

(4) Development of an energy efficiency industry -- including true Energy Service
Companies that enter into shared-savings or performance contracts and provide financing
for energy efficiency investments -- takes time and a conducive regulatory and financial
environment. When ESCOs are small and undercapitalized companies, as is the case in
Brazil, they will not be able to finance EE investments on their own balance sheets and
usually cannot obtain sufficient credit from commercial banks. Future operations may have
more success by identifying specific barriers in specific subsectors that can be overcome
through discrete actions.

(5) The post-procurement audit identified weaknesses in the procurement process for the
project that was handled by UNDP. Some deals were unable to conclude because UNDP
could not issue letters of credit. As mentioned earlier, the PMU also learned how to package
procurement bids in a way to attract more bidders and this was used effectively in the
project.

(6) Project indicators should be flexible and be adapted during implementation as conditions
change and the project develops. Some of the indicators that were designed at the project
concept stage became irrelevant later and the target values became unrealistic. In addition,
the target values for some of the key indicators were set for the entire EE program which
was envisioned to be implemented in two phases, and there were no intermediate values for
Phase I which the project was set to be. As a result, it is difficult to evaluate the project
achievements and impacts by measuring the outcomes against the target values which are
essentially non-existent.

(7) The new ICR template is problematic. The structure of the sections is disorganized
making it difficult to read and get an overall concept of project implementation. This was
made clear by reviewers at the ICR meeting.




                                               28

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           29

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives

This project was designed to support an Energy Efficiency Program in Brazil. The global
environmental objective of the project was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the
efficiency of energy supply and use in Brazil using a market-based approach. The project objective
was fully consistent with GEF Operational Program No. 5, namely the removal of barriers to EE and
energy conservation. The objective of OP5 is the dissemination of least-economic cost
energy-efficient technologies and the promotion of the efficient use of energy. The EE program
would reduce the risk of climate change by mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which
would help Brazil to meet its commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change through intensified national efforts to improve energy efficiency in various sectors.

The key indicators, as set out in the PAD, include: (1) reduction of CO2 emissions (19.2 million tons
in a 10-year period); (3) energy savings of 20.8 TWh over a 10-year period (PAD Annex 4 of Project
Justification); and (4) postponement of investments in electricity supply (US$300 million per year)
over a 10-year period. It is worth noting that the target values for these indicators were set to be
achieved in two phases over 10 years, but the project being evaluated only covers Phase I for which
no intermediate target values for these key indicators are available.

Revised Global Environment Objectives

There was no change to the project GEO of increasing energy efficiency in Brazil even though the
project was restructured in 2003 (see Section 6.6 on the changes as a result of the restructuring). The
three key indicators remain relevant although their target values cover a much longer period than the
project life. The project output indicators, as approved in project restructuring, are shown in Table 2.

Table 2 Project output indicators as approved in the 2003 project restructuring

                              Project Output             Key Indicators             Revised     Target      Actual
                                                                                Baseline at the          Achievement
                                                                                    time of
                                                                                 restructuring
                      Completion of the EE         Number of Solar Water Pre-   0               210     210
                      activities funded by IBRD    heating Equipments by
                     Aand GEF                      CPFL


  COMPONENT
                      Organization and programs    Energy Efficiency            0 percent       100     100 percent
           B          exist to make credible       Reference Center is fully                    percent
                      information available on new operational.
                      EE products, services and
                      delivery mechanisms.         Status of the Marketing plan 0 percent       100     100 percent
                                                                                                percent

            COMPONENT                              Status of the Publicity      0 percent       100     100 percent
                                                   Campaign                                     percent




                                                               30

           EE Financial Facility is       Number of financial facility   0            15      0
           established, operated by a     projects developed                                  (this component
           qualified financial entity and                                                     was cancelled
           demonstrated ability to                                                            later)
           assess, appraise and find
           necessary funding of qualified
           EE market-based subprojects
           based on agreed operational
           practices and eligibility
           criteria.
           The market for EE products     Goniophotometer is fully       0 percent    100     100 percent
           and services is working better operative (structure of                     percent
           through improved               CEPEL/RJ Laboratory)
           information and market         Solar Heating systems          0 percent    100     100 percent
           procedures, with a system to   laboratory tester is fully                  percent
           evaluate global market         operative (PUC/MG
           performance. In order to       Laboratory)
           reach this goal, the CEPEL     Hydraulic systems              0 percent    100     100 percent
           laboratory is fully operative. laboratory tests is fully                   percent
                                          operative (EFEI/MG
                                          Laboratory)
                                          Definition of EE Standards     0 percent    100     0
                                          to comply the Energy                        percent (this component
                                          Efficiency law                                      was cancelled
                                                                                              later)
           Research on the industrial,    Research on Industrial         0 percent    100     100 percent
           commercial, residential and    sector is done                              percent
           public sectors with the aim of Research on Commercial         0 percent    100     100 percent
           updating the information       sector is done                              percent
           about the acceptance of the    Research on Residential        0 percent    100     100 percent
           efficient equipments by the    sector is done                              percent
           market has been completed.     Research on Public sector is   0 percent    100     100 percent
                                          done                                        percent
           An enhanced program            Number of people that          0            1800    2650
           management unit exists with    received technical training
           capability to learn by doing   Number of courses              0            6       86
           and adapt the EE program       developed to Undergraduate                          (covering 18
           based on evaluation of market  and Graduate levels.                                subjects)
           performance of EE activities                                  0            2       5
           and participants. Moreover,                                                        (1 technical
C          strategically people linked to Number of Technical                                 guide and 4
           the Brazilian educational      Guides published                                    technical books)
           system are capable to                                         0            10      10
           understand and promote the                                                         (4 specialized
           Energy Efficiency Program.                                                         manuals and 6
                                          Number of Best Practice                             best practice
 COMPONENT                                Cases Published                                     cases)
                                          Video conference facility is   0 percent    100     100 percent
                                          fully operative                             percent
                                          Enhancement of Program         0 percent    100     100 percent
                                          Monitoring and information                  percent
                                          system, project management
                                          unit is fully established and
                                          counterpart staff is selected.




                                                       31

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target        Formally

  Indicator     Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised        Actual Value Achieved at Completion
                                         approval            Target                      or Target Years
                                       documents)            Values
              Reduction of CO2 emissions (21 million tons in a 10-year period).
Indicator 1 : Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
              limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.
                                                                          EE measures implemented by PROCEL (the
Value                              Reduction of CO2                       most important one electrical equipments
(quantitative No concern about     emissions (21 million                  labeling) represent an average energy savings
or            CO2 emissions        tons in a 10-year                      of 1.9 TWh/year. From 1999 to 2005, we have
Qualitative)                       period)                                a total of 13.3TWh which correspond to 12
                                                                          million tons of CO2 emissions reduction.
Date achieved 09/30/1999           06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
Comments      Based on Regulatory Agency (ANEEL) requirements, since 1999 distribution utilities are investing
(incl. %      approx US$100 million per year on EE projects. Over 7-year period estimates of energy saved total 5.2
achievement) TWh & CO2 emissions avoided total 4.8 millions.
              Energy Savings (1 percent per year).
Indicator 2 : Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
              limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.
Value
(quantitative EE measures result   Energy savings (1%                     Energy savings from PROCEL average 0.6%
or            in 0.6% of country   per year)                              of annual energy consumption.
Qualitative)  total

Date achieved 09/30/1999           06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
Comments      According to ANEEL, energy savings from EE investments by distribution utilities is around 0.2% of
(incl. %      country's annual consumption in last 7 years. EE measures from ANEEL & PROCEL lead to energy
achievement) savings equivalent to 0.8% of annual electricity consumption.
              Postponement of investments in electricity supply (US$300 million per year).
Indicator 3 : Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
              limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.

Value         Postponement of      Postponement of

(quantitative investments in 1999  investments in                         Postponement of investments resulting from
or            around US$580        electricity supply                     PROCEL was around US$760 million in 2005
Qualitative)  million              (US$300 million per
                                   year)
Date achieved 09/30/1999           06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The annual postponement investment increased by US$105 million from 1999 to 2005, based on the

achievement)  uniform exchange rate US$1.00 = R$ 2.10 for all years.

              Best Practice cases are completed: 15 cases per year in the last year of the two-phase program.
Indicator 4 : Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
              limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.
Value
(quantitative A few number of      15 cases per year in  No target        Six cases were developed. In addition, a

or            best practice cases the last year of the   established      technical guide, four technical books, and four

Qualitative)  available            two-phase program                      specialized manuals were published.

Date achieved 09/30/1999           06/30/2006            06/30/2006       06/30/2006



                                                    32

Comments
(incl. %     Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system limitations do

achievement) not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.

             EE products are tested, labeled and certified: 12 types of products in the last year of the two-phase
             program.
Indicator 5 :
             Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
             limitations do not allow post-dating Target Date.
Value
(quantitative5 types of products 12 types of products                     13 types of products have been tested, labeled
or           tested, labeled and tested, labeled and                      and certified
Qualitative) certified           certified

Date achieved 09/30/1999         06/30/2006                               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     Additional 10 additional products are in the process. It is important to mention the two Mobile Labs for

achievement) auditing hydraulic systems: one for industries and the other for Sewage and Water systems.

             Increased public awareness and use of EE products, services, and/or actions by public authorities, utilities,
             and consumers, 30% of PROCEL's brand recognition.
Indicator 6 :
             Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
             limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.
Value
(quantitativeMinimal             30% of PROCEL's
or           PROCEL's brand      brand recognition       n/a              45% of PROCEL's brand recognition

Qualitative) recognition

Date achieved 09/30/1999         06/30/2006              06/30/2006       06/30/2006
Comments     A campaign was aired on TV until December 2005. After that a new consumer survey was carried out. Its
(incl. %     results showed a positive impact on consumer awareness about PROCEL and the recognition of the
achievement) "PROCEL Seal" for efficient equipment.
             Increased number and type of EE products and services are available.
Indicator 7 :Indicators correspond to 10-year period. Completion is estimated for Dec 2009 but system
             limitations do not allow post-dating Original Target Date. Current ICR covers Phase I.

Value                                                                     Data is not available as most of the project

(quantitativeEE labeling         10% of equipment                         activities were implemented in the last two

or           available for some  sales are Class A.                       years and the PROCEL is conducting a new

Qualitative) products.                                                    market survey, the results of which will be
                                                                          available early next year.
Date achieved 09/30/1999         06/30/2006                               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  33

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target
  Indicator      Baseline Value       Values (from approval       Formally Revised          Actual Value Achieved at

                                            documents)              Target Values         Completion or Target Years

Indicator 1 : Number of Solar Water Pre-heating Equipment by CPFL
                                     To install 500 solar                                210 solar water pre-heaters
                                     water pre-heaters in the                            were installed by CPFL in the

Value                                state of São Paulo;                                 municipality of Americana

(quantitative                        develop a testing,        To install 210            (state of São Paulo),

or           No equipment installed certification and          equipments                representing estimated energy

Qualitative)                         labeling system; and                                savings of 160 MWh/year. A
                                     help commercialize of                               testing, certification and
                                     solar heaters in the                                labeling system was completely
                                     marketplace.                                        implemented.
Date
achieved     09/30/1999              12/31/2003                12/31/2004                12/31/2004

Comments     100% achieved. Most efficient solar water heaters annually awarded "PROCEL Seal of Energy
(incl. %     Efficiency". Acquisition of Solar Simulator by Energy Efficiency Project for PUC ­ MINAS GERAIS Lab
achievement) was essential for reducing testing time of solar water heaters.
Indicator 2 : Energy Efficiency Reference Center is fully operational
                                                                                         The EE Information
             Information                                                                 Dissemination Center has been

Value        dissemination on EE     Best practice program is To establish an            developed since 2004, and the

(quantitativepractices would remain organized and is           information center, and internet portal, PROCEL-info,

or           hampered if no          operating as designed to to elaborate and           has been operating as a pilot

Qualitative) structured              disseminate and market implement a marketing        phase since November 2005 A
             demonstration center is EE information            plan                      marketing strategy was defined,
             organized                                                                   and a marketing plan was
                                                                                         elaborated.
Date
achieved     09/30/1999              02/28/2001                11/30/2005                12/31/2005

Comments     95% achieved. Problems w/service provider delayed portal launch
(incl. %     (http://wwwp.eletrobras.com/procelinfo/main.asp). Two consultant companies contracted to work on
achievement) portal: one responsible for updating news/content; other responsible for site maintenance.

Indicator 3 : Goniophotometer, solar heating systems laboratory tester and hydraulic systems laboratory tests are
             fully operative.
                                                               To have all the
                                                               laboratories ­ Lighting
                                                               Equipment Lab,            Goniophotometer, Solar
Value                                A strengthened testing, Hydraulic Systems Lab, Simulator installed; Hydraulic
(quantitativeGoniophotometer and     labeling and              Solar Heating Systems     Systems Lab operating;
or           Solar Simulator not     certification program is Lab, and Air               Lighting Equipment Lab and
Qualitative) available               operating                 Conditioning Lab ­ fully Air Conditioning Lab ­ fully
                                                               operative; to install new operative.
                                                               testing equipment in a
                                                               number of existing labs
Date
achieved     12/31/1999              12/31/2000                12/31/2005                06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %     100% achieved (see Annex 4).




                                                   34

Indicator 4 : Research on the industrial, commercial, residential and public sectors are completed.

                                     Global market                                      Market survey was concluded

Value         The last survey about  performance                                        in 2005 for 12.772 low-voltage

(quantitative the EE Brazilian       information and           Brazilian market and     consumers and on June, 2006

or            market was done in     evaluation systems        Consumers habits data    for 1621 high-voltage

Qualitative) 1988.                   implemented and           available in a Report    consumers (commercial and

                                     operating                                          industrial consumers, and
                                                                                        public buildings).
Date
achieved      09/30/1999             12/31/2000                06/30/2006               06/30/2006

Comments      95% achieved - Relevant reports, such as the Social and Environmental Impacts assessment of PROCEL's
(incl. %     efforts, and the Conservation Potential research, have not been concluded, but are expected to be complete
achievement) by the end of 2006.
Indicator 5 : Number of people that received technical training
Value
(quantitative                        100% of training
or            Not established        implemented               1800 people              2650 people

Qualitative)
Date
achieved      09/30/1999             12/30/2004                12/30/2004               12/30/2004

Comments
(incl. %      Over 1300 % of achievement
achievement)




                                                   35

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

               Board   ISR Ratings at  Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
  Date(s)      GEO                   Restructuring           Changes Made
              Change      GEO    IP   in USD M
                                                  The 2001 energy supply crisis and
                                                  the subsequent power rationing
                                                  instituted by the Government led to
                                                  a reduction in electricity
                                                  distribution companies' revenues,
                                                  with severe negative impact on
                                                  their finances. As a consequence,
                                                  electricity distribution companies
                                                  became less interested in investing
                                                  in energy-intensive energy
                                                  efficiency initiatives. In addition,
                                                  companies in financial difficulty
 05/07/2003      N          S    S           0.68 would want to avoid borrowing in
                                                  dollars and increasing exposure to
                                                  exchange risk. The lack of progress
                                                  in the implementation of
                                                  Component A (not due to
                                                  management failure, but rather due
                                                  to lack of demand from the
                                                  utilities) motivated a project
                                                  restructuring in July 2003 and, later
                                                  on, in March 2004, the total
                                                  cancellation of the Bank loan. The
                                                  GEF funding was reduced from
                                                  USD 15 million to 11.9 million.




                                      36

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


        Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                  (USD M)               (USD M)            Appraisal
DEMONSTRATION
PROJECTS                                    69.10                    0.50           0.72

CORE SUPPORT
ACTIVITIES                                  15.30                    37.1        242.48

CAPACITY BUILDING
MODULE                                      11.40                  11.40         100.00

         Total Baseline Cost                95.80                  49.00
Physical Contingencies                      10.05
Price Contingencies                         18.80
         Total Project Costs              125.10                   49.00
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                    0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.40                    0.00           0.40
   Total Financing Required               125.50                   49.00



(b) Financing

  Source of        Type of      Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
    Funds       Cofinancing         (USD M)              (USD M)           Appraisal
Borrower      joint co-financing              0.00                   2.40




                                            37

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            38

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component A: Demonstration Projects

(a) Promotion of Solar Water Pre-Heaters in the State of São Paulo

Output sought: To demonstrate EE products, services and delivery arrangements.

Target: To install 500 solar water pre-heaters in the state of São Paulo; develop a testing,
certification and labeling system; and help commercialization of solar heaters in the
marketplace.

Revised Target: To install 210 solar water pre-heaters in the state of São Paulo; develop a
testing, certification and labeling system; and help commercialization of solar heaters in
the marketplace

Actual: 210 solar water pre-heaters were installed by CPFL in the municipality of
Americana (state of São Paulo), representing estimated energy savings of 160
MWh/year. A testing, certification and labeling system was completely implemented.
The more efficiency solar water heaters have been awarded the PROCEL Seal for Energy
Efficiency every year. The acquisition of the solar simulator for the PUC-MINA
GERAIS lab significantly reduces the testing time need for solar water heaters.

Component B: Core Support Activities

(a) Information Dissemination and Marketing

Output sought: To make credible information available on new EE products, services,
and delivery mechanisms.

Targets: To establish an information center, and to elaborate and implement a marketing
plan. Actual: The EE Information Dissemination Center has been developed since 2004,
and the internet portal, PROCEL-info, has been operating under beta version since
November 2005. The customer service center, SAC, has also been installed. The portal
(http://wwwp.eletrobras.com/procelinfo/main.asp) is expected to be officially launched
by the end of 2006.

Actual: A marketing strategy was defined, and a marketing plan was elaborated. A
marketing campaign was designed to implement the plan, and, specifically, to increase
consumer EE/ PROCEL awareness. The main campaign was aired on TV until December
2005, after which a new consumer survey was carried out. The survey showed a positive
impact on consumer awareness of the PROCEL itself and the PROCEL seal for efficient
equipment. Public recognition of the PROCEL seal increased from 35 percent to 45
percent due to the marketing campaigns.




                                             39

(b) Testing, Certification and Labeling Program

Output sought: To improve the market for EE products and services through better
information and market procedures, with a system to evaluate global market
performance.

Targets: To have all the laboratories ­ Lighting Equipment Lab, Hydraulic Systems
Lab, Solar Heating Systems Lab, and Air Conditioning Lab ­ fully operative; to install
new testing equipment in a number of existing labs; to define EE standards in order to
comply to the LEE.

Actual: The Lighting Equipment Lab was completed with the acquisition and installation
of the goniophotometer at the CEPEL. In addition, the Hydraulic Systems and the Air
Conditioning labs were installed at Universidade Federal de Itajubá and CEPEL,
respectively. A solar simulator was imported and installed at the Solar Systems Lab, at
PUC-Minas Gerais. Other labs around the country have been equipped, including another
lighting equipment lab (LACTEC-Paraná), five labs for the testing of electronic
equipment, and a lab specialized in the testing of wind turbines. The overall targets of
this subcomponent ­ which was strengthened during the project restructuring ­ have
been achieved. However, over the course there were some delays in equipment delivery.

With respect to the support to LEE, MME and Eletrobrás decided to cancel the activity.
This was motivated by the difficulties of Coppetec, a University consortium hired to
carry out the study, to deliver the reports on time. Nonetheless, MME continues to
develop the standards for different equipment with its own resources.

(c) Market Assessment Program

Output sought: To research the industrial, commercial, residential and public sectors with
the aim of updating the information about the acceptance of the EE equipments by the
market.

Target: To design and conduct a market survey; and compile and report its results.

Actual: field work and market survey are concluded in 2005 for 12,772 low-voltage
consumers and in June 2006 for 1621 high-voltage consumers (including high-voltage
commercial and industrial consumers, and public buildings). The Social and
Environmental Impacts assessment and the Conservation Potential research are under the
way and are expected to be complete by the end of 2006.

Component C: Capacity Building Module

(a) Training and Education

Output sought: to ensure that strategically people linked to the Brazilian educational
system are capable to understand and promote the EE Program.

Targets: to train 1800 people; to publish 2 technical guides and 10 best practice cases;


                                             40

and to have the video-conference facility fully operative.

Actual: the training of 2650 people in 86 different courses was concluded in 2004. The
general feedback from the participants was positive, the average rating for these courses
being 9 out of a scale of 10. According to another survey conducted following the
trainings, 98 percent of the respondents said the knowledge acquired in the training
courses were useful and 57 percent of them subsequently implemented an energy
efficiency measure in their workplace.

In 2005 a technical guide, four technical books, four specialized manuals, and six best
practice cases were published. The video-conference system was installed at CEPEL and
inaugurated in 2004, and is being customized in 2006.

(b) Support to Project Management, Evaluation and Information Systems

Output sought: to establish an enhanced program management unit with capability to
learn by doing and adapt the EE program based on evaluation of market performance of
EE activities and participants.

Targets: to have fully established the project management unit (PMU) and to have
selected counterpart staff by the fourth quarter of 1999; to have the Enhancement of
Program monitoring and information system in place by July 2000.

Actual: The PMU was set up but it was understaffed with insufficient capacity in the first
years of project implementation and the process of staffing the PMU faced significant
initial delays, caused by the downsizing of Eletrobrás. Because the PMU was not fully
established, the conditions of effectiveness were not met within the original deadline and
the project implementation was significantly behind schedule until the project was
restructured in 2003. In the last three years of project implementation, the PMU capacity
was significantly improved and the implementation progress was satisfactory.

The computer equipment required for the project implementation was installed and has
been in use.




                                             41

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The only demonstration activity in this project, promotion of solar water pre-heaters in
the state of Sao Paulo, was shown to be economically justified at the PAD stage.
However, because the low-income households for which the project target got electricity
for free as a result of the government's welfare program, they had no incentives to adopt
solar water pre-heaters for a nominal fee. Thus only 210 heaters were distributed instead
of the original target of 500 units.




                                             42

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty

Lending

Sati Achath            Consultant              ECSIE
Amarquaye Armar        Lead Energy Specialist  ETWEN
Jordan E. Blackman     Consultant              LCSEG
Jose Augusto Carvalho Consultant               LCSPT
Nelson De Franco       Consultant              LCSEG
Howard S. Geller       Consultant              LCSEG
Orville F. Grimes      Consultant              LCSEN
Charles Guinn          Consultant              EASEG
Winston C. Hay         Consultant              AFTEG
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic Consultant              LCSEG

Eric Martinot          Sr Environmental
                       Spec.                   GEF

Herman J. Nissenbaum Consultant                LCSPS
Arturo S. Rivera       Sr Energy Spec.         EASTE
Romelia Schneider      Procurement Analyst     LCSPT
Luis M. Vaca-Soto      Consultant              LCSEG              Former task team leader
Julius A. Wilberg      Consultant              AFTEG

Supervision/ICR

Susan G. Goldmark      Sector Manager          LCSEG
Todd M. Johnson        Sr Energy Spec.         LCSEG              Task team leader

Patrick Kann           Junior Professional
                       Associate               LCSFR

Raffaella Maria Lisboa
Mota                   E T Consultant          LCSEG              ICR co-author

Jayme Porto Carreiro   Consultant              LCSEG              Former task team leader
Xiaoping Wang          Energy Spec.            LCSEG              ICR co-author


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived            IP          GEO         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    03/10/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
2    07/15/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
3    11/22/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
4    03/02/2001             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
5    09/26/2001             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
6    11/30/2001             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
7    05/29/2002             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             2.18



                                             43

8    11/13/2002             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             2.18
9    05/30/2003             Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             0.68
10 12/10/2003               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             0.68
11 05/17/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             1.25
12 06/10/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             1.72
13 08/23/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             2.87
14 06/11/2005                             Satisfactory                             8.21
15 11/11/2006                             Satisfactory                            11.90


(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY97                                                          30.76
                    FY98                                                          71.68
                    FY99                                                          44.90
                    FY00                                                          33.39
                    FY01                                                           3.53
                    FY02                                                           0.00
                    FY03                                                           0.00
                    FY04                                                           0.00
                    FY05                                                           0.00
                    FY06                                                           0.00
                    FY07                                                           0.00
                    FY08                                                           0.00
                                        Total:                                   184.26
Supervision/ICR
                    FY97                                                           0.00
                    FY98                                                           0.00
                    FY99                                                           0.00
                    FY00                                                          47.31
                    FY01                                                          40.34
                    FY02                                                          41.20
                    FY03                                                          42.44
                    FY04                                                          43.77
                    FY05                                                          65.67
                    FY06                                                          69.75
                    FY07                                                          32.20
                    FY08                                                           0.00
                                        Total:                                   614.25



                                            44

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                   Ratings         Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at     Moderately                          Moderately
Entry:                  Unsatisfactory    Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing      Moderately
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately        Overall Borrower  Moderately
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         45

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

There was no beneficiary survey conducted for this project.




                                         46

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

There was no stakeholder workshop for this project.




                                         47

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    48

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                     49

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents


1. Brazil Energy Efficiency Market Assessment Reports
2. PROCEL Technical Books for different energy efficient products and processes
3. PROCEL Practical Manuals for different energy efficient products and processes




                                             50

Annex 13. Note on Cancelled Operation: Report No. NCO0000262 (IBRD-45140)


(attached separately)




                                     51

MAP: IBRD 33377




                   52

                           70°W                 To Ciudad Guayana      60°W                                                          50°W                                                 40°W
                                               R.B. DE                GUYANA
                                          VENEZUELA                                                              French                                                                                                                  BRAZIL
                                                                                                                Guiana
                                        O ri noco                                           SURINAME               (Fr.)                                          ATLANTIC
                    COLOMBIA                               Boa Vista                                                                                                OCEAN
                                                                                                                     AMAPÁ
                                                                                                                     AMAPÁ                                                                                                            STATE CAPITALS
                                                               RORAIMA
                                                                                                                      Macapá
                                                                                                                      Macapá                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

               0°                                                                                                                                                                                                 0°                  RIVERS

                                                A       m Negroa      z      o           n                    Amazon                       Belém
                                                                                                                                           Belém                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                   São Luís
                                                    Amazon     Manaus                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                     B      a      s     i  Madeira                 Tapajós                                                                                      Fortaleza

                                                                               n                                                                        MARANHÃO
                                                                                                                                                        MARANHÃO                Teresina               RIO GRANDE                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                A M A Z O N A S                                                                 PA R Á                                                                     CEARÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                           CEARÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Natal

                                               Purus                                    Teles                                                                                                        PARAÍBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARAÍBA    João
                                                                                                                                                                    P I A U I
                                                          Porto Velho                        Pires                   Xingu                                                                                      Pessoa

                         ACRE                                                                                                                  Tocantins                                     PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Recife

                            Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                       Maceió
               10°S                                RONDÔNIA
                                                   RONDÔNIA                     Juruena                                       Araguaia        Palma                                                       ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                      TOCANTINS                                                         Aracaju

                     PERU                                                                           M A T O                                                          SãoFrancisco
                                                                                                                                                                         B A H I A                   SERGIPE

                                                                                                  G R O S S O

                                                                            Mato Grosso                                               B r a z i l i a n                                           Salvador
                                                                               Plateau
                                                                                                      Cuiabá
                                                                                                      Cuiabá                               F.D.
                                                  BOLIVIA                                                                     BRASÍLIA
                                                                                                                              BRASÍLIA
                                                                                                                          GOIAS          Goiânia
                                                                                                                                         Goiânia        M I N A S G E R A I S

                 PACIFIC                                           To                                                                 H i g h l a n d s
                                                                Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                   Belo
                 OCEAN                                                                            MATO GROSSO
                            CHILE                                                                                                                                                       ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                        ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                       DO SUL                    Grande                          Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                        SANTO
               20°S                                                                        Paragu      Campo                                                                                                    20°S
                                                                                                       Grande                                                                   Vititória
                                                                                                                                                                                  ória
                                                                          To                  ya
                                                                      Santa Cruz                                           SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                           SÃO
                                                                                                               Paraná                                                       RIO DE
                                                                            PARAGUAY                                                   São
                                                                                                                                       São Paulo                Rio de      JANEIRO
                                                                                                                    PARANÁ
                                                                                                                     ARANÁ                                     Janeiro                       ATLANTIC
                                BRAZIL                                                                                                  Curitaba
                                                                                                                                                                                               OCEAN
                                                                                                                                         STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                         Florianópolis

                                                                                                       RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                           DO SUL
                                                                                                                            Porto Alegre
SEPTEMBER      30°S                                 ARGENTINA                                                                                                 0      200             400    600 Kilometers      30°S                                                                      IBRD
                                                                To Buenos                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                    Aires                        URUGUAY                                                      0                 200           400 Miles                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank         33377
         2004                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                    70°W                                   60°W                                             50°W                                               40°W                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                   To Montevideo

