                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001676



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               (IDA-H2660 IDA-H4380 TF-58248 TF-95296)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 118.5 MILLION
                     (US$175 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

             FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                    FOR A

               PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NETS APL II PROJECT

                   IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE

               OF THE PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NET PROGRAM


                               December 29, 2010




Social Protection Unit
Human Development Department
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2010)

                       Currency Unit = Birr (ETB)
                            US$1.00 = 13.595 Birr
                            US$1.00 = SDR 1.4789

                               FISCAL YEAR

                         Ethiopian Fiscal Year (EFY)
                               July 8 ­ July 7
                             EFY 02  IDA FY10

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Loan
BOARD      Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Development
BOFED      Bureau of Finance and Economic Development
BPR        Business Process Re-engineering
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
CSA        Central Statistical Agency
DCT        Donor Coordination Team
DFID       UK Department for International Development
DPPA       Disaster Prevention an Preparedness Agency
DRF        Drought Risk Financing
DRMFSS     Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector
DS         Direct Support
DWG        Donor Working Group
EC         European Commission
EFY        Ethiopian Fiscal Year
EKN        Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
FIC        Federal Information Center
FM         Financial Management
FSCB       Food Security Coordination Bureau
FSCD       Food Security Coordination Directorate
FSP        Food Security Program
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoE        Government of Ethiopia
HABP       Household Asset Building Program
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IC         Information Centre
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFPRI      International Food Policy Research Institute
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
ISR      Implementation Status Report
JCC      Joint Coordination Committee
JRIS     Joint Review and Implementation Support
KAC      Kebele Appeals Committee
KFSTF    Kebele Food Security Task Force
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund
MOLSA    Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOARD    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NRMD     Natural Resource Management Directorate
OFSP     Other Food Security Program
PASDEP   Program for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty
PASS     Automated Payroll and Attendance Sheet System
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPA      Public Procurement Agency
PIM      Program Implementation Manual
PSNP     Productive Safety Net Program
PW       Public Works
PWCU     Public Works Coordination Unit
PWFU     Public Works Focal Units
PWIA     Public Works Impact Assessment
RRM      Rapid Response Mechanism
RRT      Rapid Response Team
SIDA     Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SNNP     Southern Nations and Nationalities People
SWC      Soil and Water Conservation
TA       Technical Assistance
TLU      Tropical Livestock Units
UN       United Nations
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
USD      United States Dollar
WFP      World Food Program



                        Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
                       Sector Manager: Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
                  Project Team Leader: Wolter Soer
                     ICR Team Leader: Wolter Soer/William Wiseman
                                      ETHIOPIA
                         PRODUCTIVE SAFEY NETS PROJECT (APL II)



                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......................... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................................ 26
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................................ 27
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................... 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................... 34
 Annex 5. PSNP Monitoring and Evaluation Instruments and Impact Evaluation Findings........ 36
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................................... 40
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................................... 58
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................................... 60


 MAP IBRD 37166R .................................................................................................................... 66
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Productive Safety Nets
Country:               Ethiopia                 Project Name:
                                                                          APL II
                                                                          IDA-H2660,IDA-
Project ID:            P098093                  L/C/TF Number(s):         H4380,TF-58248,TF-
                                                                          95296
ICR Date:              12/20/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                      Borrower:
                                                                          ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                       USD 175.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 207.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 200.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Food Security Coordination Directorate, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(formerly: Food Security Coordination Bureau)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), DfID, European Union, Embassy of the Kingdom of Netherlands (EKN), Irish Aid,
Swedish International Development Agency, US Agency for International Development, World
Food Program

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/08/2006     Effectiveness:             04/05/2007        04/05/2007
Appraisal:            11/16/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             01/09/2007     Mid-term Review:           09/30/2008        10/06/2008
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible to low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory Implementing       Moderately Satisfactory

                                                i
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        1                     1
Other social services                                                   98                    98
Sub-national government administration                                   1                     1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Nutrition and food security                                             29                    29
Other social development                                                14                    14
Participation and civic engagement                                      14                    14
Social safety nets                                                      29                    29
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                                 14                    14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Ezekwesili                  Hartwig Schafer (Acting)
Country Director:            Kenichi Ohashi                       Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:              Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz              Laura Frigenti
Project Team Leader:         Wolter Soer                          Trina S. Haque/William Wiseman
ICR Team Leader:             Wolter Soer/ William Wiseman
ICR Primary Author:          Julie Van Domelen




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the proposed PSNP APL II is to continue to improve the efficiency,
effectiveness and fairness of the program in terms of ensuring; (i) timely, well-targeted
transfers, (ii) the quality and environmental impact of the public works, (iii) the
complementarity between the PSNP and other food security interventions, (iv) the local
accountability dimensions of the program, and (v) Ethiopia's ability to respond to drought.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                 Original Target Values      Formally        Actual Value Achieved
                    Baseline
    Indicator                         (from approval      Revised Target at Completion or Target
                     Value
                                        documents)            Values                  Years
Indicator 1 :      Average number of months that PSNP households report being food insecure
                                PW 3.2                                     PW 3.6
                   PW 3.5
Value                           DS 3.4                                     DS 3.8
                   DS 3.8
(Quantitative or                Net impact: increase in                    Net impact: increase in
Qualitative)                    food security versus non-                  food security versus non-
                                PSNP = +0.3 month                          PSNP = +0.6 months
                                                                           Data collected July 2008
Date achieved
                                                                           (impact evaluation)
                   Substantive target achieved versus non-beneficiaries. Drought and food price
Comments
                   shocks occurred in 2008. While absolute levels of food insecurity held constant for
(incl. %
                   PSNP households, for non-PSNP households the food gap increased by 0.4 months
achievement)
                   between 2006-2008.
                   % of beneficiary households that receive PSNP resources reporting no distressed
Indicator 2 :
                   sales of assets to meet food needs
Value
                   PW 49%      PW 65%                                      PW 52%
(Quantitative or
                   DS 54%      DS 65%                                      DS 66%
Qualitative)
                                                                             Data collected July 2008
Date achieved
                                                                             (impact evaluation)
Comments           Achieved fully for Direct Support recipients, partially for Public Works
(incl. %           participants.
achievement)
                   % of public works assessed to be satisfactory (based on Public Works Review
Indicator 3 :
                   sample and performance criteria)
Value
(Quantitative or   56%         85%                                         86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               2008
Comments
(incl. %           101% (Source: 2nd PW Review 2008)
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      % of PSNP kebeles with established and operational kebele appeals committees
Value
(Quantitative or   n.a.        60%                                         90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/11/2009

                                                  iii
Comments
(incl. %           150% (Source: 2009 Roving Appeals Audit)
achievement)
                   % of households reporting direct benefit from community assets
Indicator 5 :
Value
                   PW 71%     PW 85%                                     PW 86%
(Quantitative or
                   DS 48%     DS 65%                                     DS 67%
Qualitative)
                                                                         Data collected July 2008
Date achieved
                                                                         (impact evaluation)
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. PW = 101% ; DS = 103%
achievement)
                   % of Other Food Security Program (OFSP) beneficiaries who also receive the
Indicator 6 :
                   PSNP
                   PW 67%
                   DS 4%
Value              MTR
                               PW 80%                                  PW 50%
(Quantitative or   reports
                               DS 20%                                  DS 11%
Qualitative)       baseline as
                    PW ­ 46%
                   DS ­ 9%
Date achieved                                                          6/10/2009
                   Not achieved.

Comments           Overall access to OFSP increased from 26% of surveyed households in 2006 to
(incl. %           36% in 2008, with a corresponding increase in PSNP beneficiaries being covered
achievement)       by OFSP. However, increase in OFSP beneficiaries was stronger among non-
                   PSNP households, resulting in the falling relative percentages for PSNP
                   beneficiaries out of the total OFSP recipients.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                             Original Target Values    Formally       Actual Value Achieved at
                   Baseline
    Indicator                    (from approval     Revised Target Completion or Target
                    Value
                                   documents)            Values                 Years
Component 1: Safety Net Grants
Indicator 1 :    % of program woredas completing 80% of cash distributions by end of July
Value
(Quantitative or 39%         70%                                     86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                        12/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved ­ 123%
achievement)
                 % of program woredas using 80% of capital and management/administrative
Indicator 2 :
                 budgets by end July
Value
(Quantitative or 64%         80%                                     75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                        6/30/2009

                                                iv
Comments
                 94% ( final results affected slightly by results in the pastoral pilot woredas which
(incl. %
                 were operating for the first time and in low capacity environments)
achievement)
                 % of public works for which an ongoing management and maintenance mechanism
Indicator 3 :    has been established (based on Public Works Review sample and performance
                 criteria)
Value
(Quantitative or 0            50%                                         93%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                              2008
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved ­ 186% (source: 2008 PW Review; 2009 data not collected)
achievement)
                 % of program kebeles that have prepared and drawn on integrated community
Indicator 4 :
                 watershed management plans for public works activities
Value
(Quantitative or n.a.         65%                                         95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                             2009
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved ­ 146% (source: 2009 PW Planning Review)
achievement)
                 Program kebeles have information available and publicly displayed on program
Indicator 5 :    objectives, targeting criteria, appeals/grievance procedures
Value
(Quantitative or n.a          85%                                         77%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                             4/2010
                 91% - partially achieved. Based on reporting by the Information Center on a sample
Comments
                 of 81 woredas queried on the display of the PSNP posters (the posters provide
(incl. %
                 information on program objectives, targeting criteria, appeals/grievance procedures,
achievement)
                 etc.)
Indicator 6 :    Pastoral program piloted and assessed
Value                                                                     Pilot in 18 woredas
(Quantitative or n.a.         n.a.                                        completed, assessment
Qualitative)                                                              carried out.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved.
achievement)
Component 2: Drought Risk Financing (given contingent nature of component, no intermediate
outcome indicators defined)
Component 3: Institutional Support
                 % of program woredas that are reporting to the Information Center fully and in a
Indicator 7 :
                 timely manner (annual average)
Value
(Quantitative or 86%          90%                                         93%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                             2009
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved - 103% (source 2009 Information Centre reports)
achievement)


                                                  v
                 % of federal and regional Rapid Response Teams (RRTs)that undertake regular
Indicator 8 :
                 visits to PSNP sites per year
                 Fed. RRT ­
Value                                                                    Fed. RRT ­ 3
                 4 visits     Fed. RRT ­ 4 visits
(Quantitative or                                                         Reg. RRT ­ 3 on avg per
                 Reg. RRTs Reg. RRTs ­ 8 visits
Qualitative)                                                             year per region
                 ­ 4 visits
Date achieved                                                            2009
                 Not achieved. 75% Fed. RRT; 38% Reg. RRT. More frequent RRT visits proved to
Comments         be logistically challenging given the large number of participants from different
(incl. %         agencies. RRTs are more effectively used as a monitoring instrument at the federal
achievement)     level. Regions have other regular monitoring mechanisms which also fulfill the
                 functions of RRT.
                 Cumulative % of institutional support funds spent over the project's 3 year
Indicator 9 :    implementation period (eg administration/management budget, and capacity
                 building budget)
Value
(Quantitative or n.a.         80%                                        78%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                            12/2009
Comments
                 Achieved. Some undercounting of institutional support expenditures as does not
(incl. %
                 capture donors direct funding of TA.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/17/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/14/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    50.00
  3     11/05/2007            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    50.00
  4     06/18/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   100.00
  5     12/23/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   170.00
  6     06/22/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   207.90
  7     02/09/2010            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   207.90


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Chronic food insecurity has been a defining feature of rural poverty and
vulnerability in Ethiopia. For over 30 years, the main response to drought has been
emergency food aid. Over time, concerns arose about limitations of the emergency
response to maintain a reliable safety net and develop more productive assets. By the
early 2000s, a consensus emerged on the need to reform the emergency appeal system in
favor of a more comprehensive approach to food security. Government, donors and civil
society formed a New Coalition for Food Security and developed the Food Security
Program (FSP) with three components: (i) resettling households from environmentally-
degraded lands; (ii) a safety net for the chronically food insecure; and (iii) a package of
agricultural and financial services to promote graduation out of food insecurity.
2.       In 2005, the Government launched the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP) for
chronically food insecure households in historically food insecure rural woredas
(districts) and kebeles (wards).  The transition from emergency response to a more stable
and predictable safety net sought the timely provision of adequate food and/or cash
transfers to smooth consumption and avoid asset depletion; and the creation of productive
and sustainable community assets that contribute to environmental rehabilitation,
increased household productivity and improved access to infrastructure and services.
3.     The first two phases of the PSNP were identified at the outset as:
 Phase I (2005-2006) to support the transition from the annual emergency appeal
   system based on food transfers to a multi-annual predictable approach with the
   introduction of cash transfers. The bulk of transfers would be channeled as payments
   for labor on community-identified public works (PW), with a smaller portion retained
   as direct support transfers to the most vulnerable households. Phase I focused on
   testing and strengthening institutional arrangements and delivery systems.
 Phase II (2007-2009) as a consolidation phase that would continue to strengthen
   technical capacity in all aspects of program implementation.
 After the completion of Phase I, the need for a third phase was identified (2010-2014)
   to better integrate all activities under the Food Security Policy in order to accelerate
   households' graduation out of chronic food insecurity. The formulation of the third
   phase was completed in 2009.
4.     In a coordinated approach with several other major donors, the World Bank
supported the initial start-up phase (2005-2006) through APL I, reaching 5 million
beneficiaries in the first year and 7.2 million in the second. Despite some difficulties in
implementation given the scale, complexity and use of Government systems, the first
phase of PSNP was judged satisfactory in achieving its development objectives.
5.     The context at appraisal of APL II confirmed that the rationale for Bank
involvement remained strong. The Government reiterated its commitment to the PSNP,
as reflected in the PSNP being a core component of the five year Program for
Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP) approved in 2006.

                                            1
The World Bank's Ethiopia Interim Country Assistance Strategy (May 2006) highlighted
the PSNP as a central component for Bank support. The PSNP was also consistent with
the rural growth agenda of the World Bank's Africa Action Plan through its contributions
to increasing infrastructure and reviving degraded lands as well as the local market
stimulus expected from the shift to cash payments. The role of the World Bank was
crucial, bringing in global experience and innovations in safety net design and
environmental rehabilitation, as well leveraging other partners' financing and facilitating
donor coordination.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      As stated in the APL II Project Appraisal Document (Section B.2), the
development objective of the overall PSNP series is to contribute to reducing household
vulnerability and improving resilience to shocks. This will be achieved through reform of
the humanitarian emergency system to a development-oriented program. As cited in the
Project Appraisal Document (Section B.3.1), the specific development objective of the
PSNP APL II Project is "to continue to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and
fairness of the program in terms of (i) ensuring timely, well-targeted transfers, (ii) the
quality and environmental impact of the public works, (iii) complementarity between the
PSNP and other food security interventions, (iv) local accountability dimensions of the
program; and (v) Ethiopia's ability to respond to drought." 1
7.        The following key PDO indicators were specified:
     a)   the average number of months that PSNP households report being food insecure;
     b)   % of beneficiary households that receive PSNP resources reporting no distress
          sales of assets to meet food;
     c)   % of public works assessed to be satisfactory;
     d)   % of PSNP kebeles with established and operational kebele appeals committees;
     e)   % of households reporting direct benefit from community assets; and
     f)   % of Other Food Security Program (OFSP) beneficiaries who also receive the
          PSNP.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.        PDO was not revised.




1
  The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement picked up the broader
development objectives of the PSNP APL series: "the objective of the Project is to support the Recipient's
efforts under the PSNP Program to consolidate its transition away from reliance on relief-oriented
assistance and to strengthen its initiatives in support of a development-oriented productive safety net."




                                                    2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The main beneficiaries of the PSNP are food insecure households, defined
primarily as households that have faced a 3 month food gap or more, located in the
historically food insecure woredas of rural Ethiopia. At appraisal, the chronically food
insecure caseload was estimated at up to 8 million people. An additional number of
transient food insecure households would be covered in the case of shocks within PSNP
woredas using a contingent risk financing mechanism. In addition, communities in one-
third of rural woredas would benefit from basic infrastructure and environmental
rehabilitation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Safety Net Grants (total $838.5 million, of which IDA $145.0 million).

10.     Labor-Intensive Public Works (PW) entail safety net transfers to households
whose adults participate in public works sub-projects. Sub-projects are determined
locally through an annual participatory planning process based on integrated watershed
management guidelines and timed to create temporary employment during the
agricultural lean season. PW household members may work up to 5 days per month.
11.     Direct Support (DS) safety net transfers are provided to eligible households who
cannot undertake public works. Target beneficiaries include orphans, pregnant and
lactating women, elderly, HIV/AIDS affected, and female-headed households with young
children.

12.     A combined administrative and community targeting system is applied in the
selection of eligible participants, as outlined in the targeting guidelines of the Program
Implementation Manual. General criteria (e.g., households having at least 3 months of
food insecurity over the last three years, households more recently made food insecure as
a result of shocks, etc.) are applied by Community Food Security Task Forces,
supplemented by local criteria for further refining the selection (e.g. household assets,
support from family members etc.). Transfers for both PW and DS participants are
provided for six months in the form of cash and/or food and equivalent to 3 kg of cereal
or a cash amount which, at the outset of PSNP APL II, was set at 6 birr per day.

Component 2: Drought Risk Financing (total $25million, of which IDA $25 million)

13.     Drought Risk Financing (DRF) was an innovation in APL II to make the safety
net more responsive to shocks. The DRF would put resources in place up-front to be used
in the case of the onset of drought in PSNP woredas, providing an early response when
needs surpassed the ability of existing program resources to address. The component
would develop a rainfall-based index to empirically trigger and scale disbursements.
Financing would be channeled using existing PSNP systems based on woreda
contingency plans.



                                            3
Component 3: Institutional Support (total $51.8 million, of which IDA $5.0 million)
14.    This component supported institutional strengthening activities in three main
areas:
    a) Program management costs, capacity building and training to ensure
       availability of staff and other resources and training in PSNP procedures and other
       operational areas.
    b) Monitoring and evaluation, including (i) technical supervision of public works,
       (ii) implementation of the computerized payroll system (PASS) in all PSNP
       woredas, (iii) roving audits of financial management, procurement and the appeals
       processes, (iv) intensification of the rapid response teams set up in APL I, (iv)
       studies and surveys, including a robust impact evaluation, and (v) design of
       DRF's weather indexation.
    c) Transparency and accountability initiatives to disseminate information on
       objectives and procedures among stakeholders, public posting of information,
       development of a PSNP website, a beneficiary assessment and design of a client
       card system.

1.6 Revised Components

N/A

1.7 Other significant changes


15.     Additional financing of an IDA grant of US$25 million was approved on
December 10, 2008 through the Ethiopia Food Crisis Response Program Project to enable
the Government to maintain adequate coverage of the PSNP in 2009, thereby ensuring
that the project development objectives of the PSNP could be met in a context of rapidly
rising international food prices.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.    Design and appraisal of APL II was based on a strong analytical base, including
extensive surveys and studies that served to evaluate APL I and unify Government and
donor understanding of program performance and challenges to be addressed in Phase II
(see Annex 8 ).


17.     Key lessons learned and issues to be addressed were:
a) Scalability of the safety net. APL II preparation developed greater clarity on the
    distinction between the chronic and transient caseloads and contingency versus
    emergency appeals, including the identification of the drought risk financing
    mechanism to address larger shocks. A condition of disbursement was placed on
    presentation of an operational manual of the DRF.


                                            4
b) Use of Government systems. While using existing Government channels and
   structures for implementation was consistent with longer-term public sector
   management objectives, reliance solely on existing civil service staff was insufficient
   to address capacity constraints. APL II foresaw greater recourse to contracted staff.
c) Flexibility in the choice between cash and food transfers. Experience revealed that
   cash and food transfers met different needs at different times of the year. Design of
   APL II sought greater flexibility in resource programming between cash and food.
d) Local accountability. A review of targeting performance in APL I found that criteria
   were generally respected, with no systemic political or ethnic biases in selection of
   beneficiaries. However, the appeals mechanism could be improved. A condition of
   effectiveness was placed on reinforcing the appeals system at the local levels.
e) Graduation. Safety net transfers were not intended to be sufficient to `graduate'
   households out of food insecurity. PSNP APL II emphasized the need for better
   overlap of OFSP interventions to reinforce the path out of food insecurity.
f) Donor coordination. Means to strengthen the multi-donor framework developed in
   APL I were identified. Coordinated semi-annual project reviews were placed as dated
   covenants of the project and the Donor Coordination Unit was reinforced.
18.     Two program risks were rated as `substantial' at appraisal. First, there was
concern over the ability of donors to commit funding for a program level over 7 million
beneficiaries. During preparation, additional efforts were made to increase donor
commitments. Funding for the first two years of APL II was confirmed prior to appraisal.
Second, the limited capacity of the regional and woreda levels was acknowledged as a
constraint to PSNP effectiveness. In response, the Project Implementation Manual was
revised to clarify roles and better align the PSNP with woreda planning and budget
cycles. The rapid response mechanism to address implementation problems was
reinforced. And, to upgrade the quality of public works, a condition of effectiveness was
placed on the establishment of Public Works Focal Units at regional and federal levels.
19.     A Financial Management Assessment was done during appraisal. The main
strength identified was the avoidance of setting up parallel systems. Some weaknesses
identified include delays in reporting, shortage of qualified accountants and auditors,
limited focus on internal audit, and delayed staffing of the external audit function.
20.    All preparation and appraisal activities were carried out through the broader
consortium of donors supporting PSNP. The PSNP APL II PAD became the de facto
reference document for the overall program 2007-2009. The project was approved by the
Board on December 11, 2006 and became effective April 11, 2007.

2.2 Implementation

21.    Despite challenges of scale, capacity and external shocks, implementation
progress during the three year APL II period was consistently rated as satisfactory.
22.    Several factors contributed to successful implementation:
a) Donor engagement and coordination was critical to effective implementation. The
    PSNP Donor Working Group (DWG) continued to rotate the chair to ensure broad
    donor buy-in. Joint donor-Government thematic groups were formed to review

                                            5
   technical issues in greater depth, focusing on M & E, food and financial management,
   public works, pastoral development, communications, social development, capacity
   building and contingency financing. A Joint Coordination Committee between the
   Government and donors met on a bi-weekly basis to discuss implementation issues.
   The Donor Coordination Team (DCT) was established at the outset of APL II to serve
   as a technical secretariat for the agencies involved in PSNP. The DCT facilitates all
   aspects of donor/donor and donor/Government relations, including project
   supervision, studies and evaluations. The DCT helped donor agencies find consensus
   and provided continuity as donor representatives changed. This innovative
   coordination model reduced the transaction costs of dealing with many agencies.
b) Investments in staffing and technical assistance. The capacity constraints noted in
   APL I were addressed more aggressively in APL II. Over forty staff, both permanent
   and contract staff, were involved during APLII to support PSNP implementation at
   the federal level, including specialists in communications, social issues, and
   procurement. Some of the technical assistance at federal level was supported by
   CIDA and the EC. Specialists were also contracted at the woreda level, including
   finalization of the recruitment of some 760 accountants and cashiers. Training efforts
   at the woreda level centered on participatory watershed management, financial
   management, general project guidelines and procedures, M & E, environmental
   safeguards, and guidance on graduation from PSNP (see Annex 2 for details). Despite
   these investments, the overall instability of staff in the Ethiopian public sector
   continued to hamper implementation during the APL II period.
c) Several new systems or program areas were designed or implemented during APL II:
   (i) an automated Payroll and Attendance Sheet System (PASS) was designed and
   introduced during APLII and caseload management was improved through the
   unification of the public works and the direct support beneficiary lists. Client cards
   were designed and introduced towards the end of APL II which will further improve
   caseload management under APL III; (ii) the Drought Risk Financing (DRF)
   mechanism was activated in 2008 and 2009, extending payments to 4.4 million and
   6.4 million PSNP beneficiaries, respectively; and (iii) a pastoral pilot was developed,
   albeit with delays, to tailor PSNP to the specificities of pastoral areas. The pilot was
   initiated in the final year of APL II in 18 woredas, of which 9 were NGO-supported,
   reaching 399,000 pastoralists.
23.      Implementation of APL II was affected by factors exogenous to the program,
most notably, the dramatic increases in world food and fuel prices in 2008. The situation
was exacerbated by drought that same year from failure of seasonal rains. Food price
inflation peaked at 91.7% for the 12 months ending July 2008, giving Ethiopia one of the
highest food price inflation rates in the world. This tested the robustness of the PSNP in
operating in a crisis context, with increased caseloads triggering the use of the DRF
mechanism in 2008 and 2009. The severity of the shock required additional financing
through the DRF, which was approved by the Bank as well as from other donors. Due to
increases in basic food prices, the purchasing power of cash transfers declined. As a
result, the daily wage rate was adjusted from 6 birr to 8 birr in 2008 and 10 birr in 2009.
In addition, PSNP adjusted by decreasing the cash-food split from 74% cash in 2005 to
48% cash in 2008.

                                            6
24.    Further reforms to the targeting system were adopted during APLII. Steps were
taken to improve the transparency and accountability of the targeting system by, most
importantly, creating an appeals system that was independent from the targeting system.
A 2008 study found that examples of dilution among households had significantly
reduced, as had reports of exclusion of family members. However, the introduction of full
family targeting principle everywhere remained a challenge throughout the APLII period.
25.    A Mid-Term Review was carried out in October 2008. Based on the findings of
the review, overall progress in meeting program objectives was satisfactory. Financial
management and procurement continued to raise implementation challenges largely due
to the complexity of a multi-donor program implemented using national systems. The
MTR noted delays in the Natural Resource Management Directorate (NRMD) assuming
more complete responsibility of the PW component and challenges in aligning PSNP
with the Government's overall Business Process Re-engineering (BPR) exercise. The
MTR required that the PSNP MOU and PIM be revised to clarify the roles and
responsibilities of all stakeholders in the new governmental structure. Despite
improvement in timeliness of transfers, remaining bottlenecks were identified and
remedies proposed. Concern over effective oversight of public works implementation
was raised, with observations about quality issues in certain sub-sectors as well as delays
in implementing an effective database on PW sub-projects. The MTR called for a Public
Works Focal Unit to be re-established to manage PW activities in each region to reinforce
technical quality and oversight. The MTR also recommended a more empirical measure
be developed to guide graduation out of PSNP, which was subsequently undertaken.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     The PSNP monitoring and evaluation framework built on the strong performance
under APL I and was comprised of the following activities (Annex 5):
a) Routine monitoring data collected regularly through Government systems based on a
    series of standard reporting formats on transfers, public works and financial flows.
b) Information Center (IC) reports: The IC was established within the Food Security
    Coordination Bureau (FSCB) during PSNP I to monitor humanitarian risk by
    collecting real-time data every other week from a sample of woredas on the status of
    transfers and food prices.
c) The Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM), consisting of teams from Federal and
    Regional levels, was reinforced in APL II.
d) Annual assessments and audits including roving audits of financial management,
    procurement and the appeals mechanism, reviews of a sample of completed public
    works sub-projects, and purchasing power studies to set the wage rate for transfers. 
e) Impact and other evaluation studies. Given the flagship nature of the PSNP, much
    attention has been devoted to generating robust data on outcomes. A set of impact and
    other outcome evaluations include, among others, a regionally representative
    household survey carried out every two years. The baseline for the impact evaluation
    was completed in 2006 under APL I and the follow-up done in 2008. The scheduling
    of the impact evaluation allows for findings to be available as input to the design of

                                            7
     the next phase. The ongoing 2010 impact evaluation is scheduled to be completed by
     April 2011.  
          
27.      The PSNP M&E framework was effectively carried out during implementation,
providing a robust empirical basis which served to make ongoing adjustments to the
program as well as evaluate achievement of development objectives. Annex 2 provides a
list of technical studies and evaluations carried out during APL II. The magnitude of the
evaluation effort reflects the high profile and flagship nature of the PSNP. The impact
evaluation results from 2008 were critical to adjustments made in the design of APL III.

28.     Routine monitoring was more of a challenge with PSNP due to both the scale and
complexity of the program and reliance on regular government reporting channels
between levels of government. In addition, reporting on public works outputs was
hampered by lack of consistent definitions for outputs. This has, for instance, resulted in
not adequately capturing the outcomes of the significant watershed management activities
of the program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

29.     Safeguard Compliance: Deficiencies in application of the Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) identified during APL I were partially addressed
during APL II. Six thousand local level development agents were trained in ESMF
implementation. Screening checklists in local languages were made available. Donor-
financed technical advisors were added to improve capacity of the regional PW Focal
Units to manage the M&E and ESMF screening of the PW activities. Field visits
confirmed that in most cases the ESMF screening checklists were available. However,
despite the provision of materials and training, supervision in 2008 and 2009 continued to
find deficiencies in the application of screening criteria. In 2009, only one-third of the
sub-project ESMF screening forms examined had been completed to the required
standards by the development agents2. This was exacerbated by continued staff turnover
at the woreda level. Despite these procedural shortcomings, environmental reviews found
that on the whole PSNP sub-projects had significant positive environmental impacts.
30.     Fiduciary Compliance: Substantial improvements to the financial management
system of the PSNP have been made since the first phase. Most notably, PSNP financial
management migrated to full integration with Government budgeting, disbursement and
reporting systems under the direct control of the Ministry of Finance. Financial reviews
found significant improvements in the timely delivery of financial audit reports and a
general lowering of financial risk during APL II.
31.     There were consistent efforts to improve financial management, including:


2
  To improve the rate and quality of ESMF implementation, specific attention was paid to the ESMF
training material and screening procedures during the 2010 community based watershed management
training for staff involved in the implementation of PW activities at woreda level.


                                               8
a) Establishment of a new `Channel 1 Coordination Unit' to help facilitate financial
   management for all donor projects fully integrated into the Government system;
b) Around 760 accountants and cashiers were contracted at the woreda level and
   beneficiary registries were automated;
c) Necessary equipment was provided to mitigate fiduciary risk. For example, safes
   were purchased for all PSNP woredas;
d) Government and donors established the joint Financial Management Task Force
   (FMTF) to better follow-up on Financial Management (FM) issues;
e) MOFED prepared detailed action plans covering the recommendations and comments
   of all audits (both Roving and Financial Audits) from 2007 ­ 2009. From 2010
   onwards the Roving and Financial Audits will be combined and the auditor will carry
   out interim audits on a quarterly basis following the audit plan that is designed at
   planning stage of the audit. These interim audits are an integral part of the annual
   auditing process.
f) In 2009, the audit function was expanded to consider food resources in order to apply
   the same accountability criteria to both cash and food transfers.
32.     Nonetheless, there were ongoing challenges in financial management largely
stemming from the implementation of such a large-scale, complex program using
national fiduciary systems. A lack of annual budget detail from the project at regional,
zonal and woreda level weakened budget monitoring at all levels. A manual accounting
system was used to record transactions and in most woredas for reporting which
contributed to chronic delay in reporting between levels, leading to delays in providing
acceptable IFR reports to the Bank. Regular government internal control procedures were
used with strengths noted in the areas of payment authorization and segregation of duties.
However, internal audit oversight was weak. This is not unique to this particular project
but is rather a systemic weakness of the internal audit function affecting most Bank
projects in Ethiopia. Also outside of PSNP control, issues with liquidity of regional banks
meant that shortages of cash delayed payments and further complicated FM.

33.     Audit reports were submitted to the Bank with delays for the years 2006 and 2007
(PSNP I) but improved for the years of 2008 and 2009 (PSNP II). The audit reports were
mostly qualified due to internal control weaknesses. Audits found issues (e.g., purchase
of some ineligible items) which pointed to repetitive systemic problems, but no indication
of systematic corruption. During the last quarter of APL II, ineligible expenditures were
found in one region (for example funds used for more capital-intensive public works in
some woredas) and refunded back to the project. The Implementation Status Report (ISR)
rating for Financial Management (FM) of the project was rated as moderately satisfactory
throughout implementation but downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory at closing due
to slower overall improvement then desired and the persistence of problems.

34.     Procurement also had some shortcomings. The 2008 Post Procurement Review
identified several problems with procurement processes and delays in putting in place
Regional Procurement Coordinators. Regular procurement audits were added to more
closely monitor decentralized actors compliance with procurement guidelines.



                                            9
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Sustainability of the investments financed by APL II:
35.     Sustainability of public infrastructure has been a challenge for programs
throughout Ethiopia. Ex-post evaluations of sub-project sustainability have generally
been favorable and indicators have shown improvement over the APL II period. By sub-
project type, soil and water conservation sub-projects, the largest area of the PSNP
portfolio, were rated as 95 percent sustainable (using environmental, social technical,
managerial and O & M resource availability criteria). Social facilities and agricultural
activities also received high ratings. Ratings were lower for roads (64 percent) and water
projects (50-56 percent) which may limit the medium-term impact of these sub-projects.
Sustainability of reforms and institutional capacity:
36.     Government commitment to the PSNP has been high. Institutional sustainability
is likely given that the PSNP is well-embedded in national fiduciary and local planning
systems, rather than project-based implementation structures. The policy reforms in food
security established at the outset of PSNP remain widely accepted by both the
Government and donors. PSNP continues to play an important role in implementing the
country's broader policy agenda in agricultural growth, disaster risk management and
social protection. In 2009, the Government revised its Food Security Policy for 2010-
2014 confirming the main components of resettlement, the PSNP, and the household
asset building program (HABP) of credit and technical inputs, as well as introducing a
complementary community investment program (CCI) to support a broader array of basic
infrastructure. In addition, Ethiopia endorsed the Social Policy Framework for Africa in
2009, which reinforces the country's commitment to develop and operationalize national
plans for social protection, including safety nets
Medium-term sustainability of funding for the PSNP/Follow-up Operation:
37.     All of the original donors of the PSNP have continued to support the program and
several new ones have joined. Donors have confirmed their commitment to supporting
the next phase, with an overall PSNP program cost for 2010-2014 of US$2.256 billion,
including US$160 million for drought risk financing if needed. Objectives of the next
phase focus on: (i) strengthening the monitoring system to ensure a regular flow of data
to program managers; (ii) adopting a more strategic approach to capacity building; (iii)
reinforcing accountability and transparency measures at all levels and expanding these to
the food management system; and, (iv) increasing the responsiveness of the program to
transitory shocks. Greater attention to public works is anticipated to result in more
sustainable public works projects and enhanced program impact at community-level. The
donors are broadening their support for the Food Security Policy to include financing for
the Household Asset Building Program (HABP).
38.    Financial commitments have been made thus far totaling 76 percent of the
program's five year needs. On September 25, 2009, the World Bank's US$480 million
Ethiopia Productive Safety Net APL III Project was approved (US$350 million IDA
grant and US$130 million IDA credit). The Government will allocate significant

                                           10
resources to finance the credit component of the HABP and other complementary
elements of the Food Security Program, at a level of US$160 million for the next three
years.
Long-term perspectives on the sustainability of the safety net:
39.     In terms of projected need for a safety net, at the outset of the FSP, the
Government objective was to graduate 5 million households out of food insecurity within
5 years. This was more of a political aspiration than a realistic appraisal of the ability to
eliminate food insecurity within such a short timeframe. In 2007, the Government
developed a set of objective, asset-based "benchmarks" that define two levels of
graduation: first, from the PSNP when households become food sufficient and second,
from the FSP when households become food secure. Over APL II, about 431,380
individuals had met these benchmarks to graduate from the PSNP, though most stay in
the program for an additional year because households on the cusp risk quickly eroding
their asset base and falling back into the emergency system when shocks occur. Although
there is now evidence to suggest that modest graduation levels are achievable in the
medium-term, a significant caseload of chronically food insecure will remain.
40.    In terms of willingness and ability to finance a longer-term safety net in Ethiopia,
spending on safety nets in developing countries averages between 1-2 percent of GDP.
The PSNP, as the main safety net in Ethiopia, currently represents about 1.3 percent of
GDP. While the level of effort is within the average range, the PSNP is highly dependent
on donor financing, reflecting the overall high level of donor dependence (between 30-40
percent of total public spending) at this stage of Ethiopia's development. Therefore, the
PSNP will likely continue to require donor financing even though Government funding of
the FSP components overall has increased.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41.     There is a high degree of Government commitment to and ownership of this
program. The PSNP forms a core component of the Government's poverty reduction
strategy, as outlined in the five-year Program for Accelerated and Sustained Development
to End Poverty (PASDEP - (2005/06-2009/10). In addition to its role in food security,
PSNP is seen as a core part of reaching the MDGs in terms of reduction of extreme
hunger and poverty, environmental rehabilitation and agricultural productivity, and
harmonization of partnerships. The approach operationalizes the Paris Declaration on Aid
Effectiveness.
42.     The PSNP is a key component of the World Bank's April 2, 2008 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia (Report No. 43051-ET). The CAS places PSNP
as a core part of an integrated national strategy to assist the poorest households graduate
from food insecurity in a sustainable manner, protect the vulnerable from exposure to
shocks as well as address environmental degradation. Program financing requirements
and indicative commitments show that IDA resources are required for the medium-term
to help fill the financing gap as well as leverage other development partner contributions.

                                             11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.     The PSNP achieved its basic set of intended outputs. The program reached 7.2
million beneficiaries in 2007, 7.4 million in 2008 and 7.6 million in 2009 3 , with the
number of eligible households growing in the face of price and weather shocks. Eighty-
three percent of beneficiaries participated in public works and 17 benefitted from direct
support. PSNP financed 34,000 public works projects annually. This is the largest safety
net in Sub-Saharan Africa.

44.    The project's extensive M & E efforts provided a rich body of evidence in
determining achievement of development objectives. Impact evaluation methodology and
main findings are summarized and other key evaluation reports are listed in Annex 5.4
Analysis of the basic results chain and achievement of development objectives derived
from the outputs detailed in Annex 2 is provided schematically as follows:

45.     The overarching development objective of the PSNP series is to transition away
from reliance on relief-oriented assistance to a more development-oriented safety net,
with improvements evidenced by:
a) Increased food security: Key performance indicators: Improvements in the average
    number of months that PSNP households report being food insecure was achieved
    relative to non-beneficiaries even if the drought impacted absolute levels. During
    APL I (2005-2006), the impact evaluation showed a net increase of 0.23 months of
    household food security for PSNP participants compared to control groups. This was
    during a period of relatively robust harvests. During APL II, the target was a
    continued increase in food security. In absolute terms this did not materialize because
    of the drought and rise in food prices. However, PSNP was able to fully protect
    beneficiaries from any worsening of food insecurity, while non-beneficiaries
    experienced a net increase in the food gap of 0.4 months. Therefore, the impact of
    PSNP on food security was positive in APL II; Other supporting evidence: Growth in
    caloric acquisition was 17 percent higher for PSNP households, but only when they
    received recent and regular transfers. The impact of the PSNP on food security was
    greatest among households affected by drought, with a 30 percent higher caloric
    acquisition than non-beneficiaries;
b) Protection and promotion of household assets including human capital: Key
    performance indicator: even in the face of drought, the occurrence of distressed sale
    of assets decreased for both DS (which fully reached its target) and PW clients (which




3
  The increase of beneficiary numbers is mainly due to the inclusion of the pastoral areas (i.e. Afar and
Somali region) into the program. In addition, in 2009 it was agreed to increase the number of beneficiaries
in SNNPR and Oromiya to correct for observed exclusion errors.

4
  The impact evaluation was carried out in 2008 to provide input into the design of PSNP's third phase
which was done in 2009. This data is the most robust on household and community level impacts and tied
to several of the key performance indicators. Several other data sources and evaluations which were carried
out closer to the end of APL II are also used to supplement the end of project information.

                                                    12
    achieved about 20% of its target).5 Among households affected by drought, distress
    sale of livestock was significantly lower among PSNP households receiving
    predictable support as compared with non-PSNP households. This suggests that,
    when implemented as designed, the PSNP protects household assets. Other
    supporting evidence: Asset holdings increased, with public works participants
    experiencing a net growth in livestock holdings of 0.28 Tropical Livestock Units
    (TLU) over comparator households. Again, results were sensitive to program
    performance. When households that received low levels of transfers were measured,
    they saw no net increase in holdings; whereas households receiving recent and regular
    transfers had an increase of 2.6 TLUs. In addition, the Public Works Review found
    that small-scale irrigation from water sources developed by the PSNP had helped to
    expand livestock for 4-12 percent of households and increase incomes by 4-25
    percent, depending on the region. In addition, the use of social services increased. In
    2008, 27 percent of households reported increased use of health facilities over 2007
    and almost half attributed this increase to the PSNP. Overall, households' perceived
    well-being improved. Households participating in the PSNP perceived themselves to
    be better off in 2008 as compared with 2006 despite the period of drought in 2008.

46.     The achievement of these outcomes is explained by performance of APL II in
meeting its more specific development objectives in the areas of efficiency, effectiveness
and fairness as follows, per the PDO:
a) Ensuring timely, well-targeted transfers was achieved. Intermediate outcome
    indicator: the level of program woredas completing 80% of cash distributions by end
    of July surpassed the target (123% achieved). This achievement was a result of
    improved capacity at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, MOFED,
    putting in place resources upfront, greater systematization of the payment
    arrangements and increased administrative personnel at the woreda level. Other
    supporting evidence: Analysis of targeting confirmed that PSNP is well-targeted to
    the poorest households, with PSNP beneficiaries having significantly lower incomes,
    fewer assets, and less farmland than non-beneficiaries.
b) The quality and environmental impact targets for public works were achieved. Key
    performance indicators: the share of public works assessed as satisfactory rose from a
    2006 baseline of 56% to 86% in 2008, reaching the APL II goal. By project type, soil
    and water conservation (SWC) activities had the highest quality ratings and they
    comprise the largest share of PSNP projects. And, the share of households reporting
    direct benefit from community assets were fully met, showing a substantial increase
    over APL I. Intermediate outcome indicators: (i) the share of public works for which
    an ongoing management and maintenance mechanism has been established (based on



5
  The impact evaluation notes the curious finding that the non-PSNP households showed even larger
`improvements' in avoiding the sale of distressed assets even in the face of much worsened food insecurity
in non-PSNP households. One observation is on the indicator itself and how `distressed' sale of assets like
livestock is interpreted by respondents versus `non-distressed' sales. Due to interpretation difficulties, this
indicator was dropped in APL III.


                                                     13
   PW Review sample and performance criteria) reached 93 percent compared with an
   end of project target of 50 percent; (ii) to ensure sufficient non-labor inputs and
   therefore PW quality, the percentage of program woredas using 80 percent of capital
   and management/administrative budgets by end July achieved 94 percent of the
   target, with results affected slightly by the pastoral pilot woredas which were
   operating for the first time in 2009 and in low capacity environments; and (iii) 95
   percent of program kebeles prepared and drew on integrated community watershed
   management plans for public works activities, surpassing the target of 65 percent.
   Other supporting evidence: Despite shortcomings in systematic environmental
   screening, PW projects produced significant environmental benefits, including the
   rehabilitation of over 167,000 hectares of land through area closures, construction of
   275,000 kilometers of stone and soil bund embankments, and the planting of almost
   900 million seedlings. Ex-post visits to SWC projects found significant increases in
   wood and herbaceous vegetation cover and a broader diversity of plant species. The
   increase in vegetation has already had a positive and visible impact on the increased
   supply of livestock feed, bee forage, and medicinal plants. In addition, overall quality
   of public works was positively affected by improvements in local participation in the
   planning process. The impact evaluation confirmed increased involvement by
   households and local communities in the selection of PW projects, with community
   participation rates tripling from the baseline. Investments in training in community
   based watershed management and in capacity building in PW monitoring contributed
   to these results.
c) Increased complementarity between the PSNP and other food security
   interventions was partially achieved. One of the goals was to strengthen the linkages
   between PSNP and OFSP because the combined package increased households'
   chances of graduating out of food insecurity. The Government scaled up OFSP during
   APL II, rising from 26% of surveyed households in 2006 to 36% in 2008. As a result,
   a greater share of PSNP beneficiaries gained access to OFSP during APL II ­ almost
   doubling from 29 percent in 2006 to 56 percent in 2008 - and the synergies between
   the two programs heightened household level impacts for both programs. Access
   solely to PW transfers had no effect on output, acreage, productivity or fertilizer use.
   Neither did access to only OFSP's packages of inputs and technical assistance.
   However, there were large impacts on productivity ­ increases of more than 200
   kg/ha ­ when households had access to both PW transfers and OFSP services. Key
   performance indicator: The indicator chosen was the relative percentage of OFSP
   beneficiaries with access to PSNP, which was not achieved because the increase in
   OFSP beneficiaries was stronger among non-PSNP households despite the improved
   overlap with PSNP beneficiaries.
d) Local accountability mechanisms were reinforced through the creation of an
   appeals system that was independent from the targeting system. Key performance
   indicator: Kebele Appeals Committees (KACs) were established in all areas. A 2009
   roving appeals audit confirmed that KACs were operational in 90 percent of PSNP
   kebeles (versus an end of APL II target of 60 percent) and most KACs had satisfactory
   representation from different segments in the community. Almost all of the appeals
   presented were solved in a timely manner at the KAC level. Other supporting evidence
   found that over 87% of respondents reported that the PSNP selection process is fair.  In
   addition, there are indications that PSNP provides more opportunities for citizen
                                            14
   engagement and "voice" than other programs. Of the respondents who reported that
   they had attended PSNP meetings, 66 percent said that they had never attended
   meetings for another organization in their neighborhood.
e) Ethiopia's ability to respond to drought was substantially improved with the
   introduction and operationalization of the Drought Risk Financing mechanism under
   APL II. The DRF mechanism was first activated in 2008 following weather shocks
   and the global rise in food prices. Additional cash payments supported 4.3 million
   PSNP beneficiaries with extended payments. The DRF was again used in 2009 to
   provide additional transfers to 6.4 million PSNP participants in response to the failure
   of seasonal rains. This contributed to stabilization of food security during a
   significant shock period.

3.3 Efficiency

47.     Economic analysis of PSNP is detailed in Annex 3 and summarized as:
a) Cost effectiveness of the safety net transfers is high in terms of the overall share of
    program resources that actually reach the poor through transfers. This is due to a
    combination of accurate targeting (little leakage to the non-food insecure), a high
    labor intensity (on average 80 percent), and relatively low overhead costs. The PSNP
    compares very favorably with international experience in public works programs.
b) Cost savings are achieved in the shift from food to cash: Given the 2008 cash/food
    mix, the estimated annual savings to the program of introducing cash payments is
    over US$21 million, mainly in food transportation and storage cost savings.
c) Public works have positive benefit-cost ratios: The 2008 PW Impact Assessment of
    completed public works projects in ten sample watersheds found that the average
    benefit-cost ratios were well over 1 for all types of sub-projects where this analysis
    can be done, ranging from an average of 1.8 for soil and water conservation sub-
    projects, 1.8 ­ 2.2 for health and 3.7 for water sub-projects.
d) Inflationary effects were not observed: Despite concerns that introducing cash
    payments could spark inflation, a World Bank study found that the 2008 food price
    inflation in Ethiopia can be largely explained by overall nominal increases in prices,
    which have in turn been very closely associated with increases in the money supply,
    rather than any effect of the PSNP. A 2008 woreda-level analysis of the potential
    inflationary effects of the PSNP similarly concluded that food prices in PSNP
    woredas did not increase faster than that of non-PSNP woredas.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
48.     The relevance of the program remains high, with strong donor and Government
commitment and a central role for the safety net in the Government's poverty reduction
strategy and donor assistance strategies. Donor engagement and harmonization as well as
the use of government systems are an outstanding example of fulfilling the 2005 Paris
Declaration for Aid Effectiveness goals. The specific design of the PSNP is highly


                                            15
relevant to the Ethiopian context, creating a more targeted and productive safety net out
of the existing emergency response system.

49.     The storyline of achievement of development objectives follows and confirms the
basic results chain of the PSNP. Investments in inputs, and in particular training and
technical assistance, staffing, capacity building and monitoring, resulted in improvements
in program delivery. Transfers were timelier. Public works were of higher quality and
more deeply embedded in participatory local planning. The local transparency of the
program was improved and potential targeting errors of exclusion were better addressed
through a revised appeals mechanism. A greater share of PSNP participants also had
access to OFSP, heightening longer-term prospects for graduation. The introduction of
the Drought Risk Financing Mechanism created an instrument of scalability that was
highly effective in quickly responding to the increased demands during the shocks of
2008-2009. These operational improvements translated into significant impacts on
households and communities. Millions of rural Ethiopian households did not fall deeper
into food insecurity in the face of severe shocks, unlike non-participants. PSNP
households built up important assets like livestock. And, communities saw environmental
rehabilitation, improved productive capacity and expanded social and economic
infrastructure which increased utilization of services, and in some cases, agricultural
productivity. However, program impacts were sensitive to program performance ­ where
transfers were late or not complete, there were less effects.

50.     The economic efficiency of the program was high because of the high labor-
intensity and low administrative costs as well as the efficiency gains of transitioning to
cash payments. The cost-benefit analysis of completed sub-projects found that
investments are economically sound.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
51.     Vulnerable groups were targeted to receive direct support payments. During APL
II, a social development specialist was contracted to the federal level PSNP to reinforce
aspects related to vulnerable groups. Impact evaluations confirm that direct support
recipients were more likely to be female-headed or comprised of elderly, have lower
labor endowments and poorer when measured by livestock and land holdings.
52.     The PSNP adjusted its program to ensure specific vulnerable groups were
reached:
a) Gender mainstreaming. A gender assessment of the PSNP concluded that the PIM
    provided a strong institutional framework for promoting gender equity. Fieldwork
    observed progress in implementing the gender provisions of the PIM, including
    significant female participation as well as selection of PW projects like water supply
    that reduce women's burdens, although this was uneven across woredas and elements
    of the PIM. The impact assessment found that 40 percent of PW participants were



                                           16
    women, which is a good result given international experience with female
    participationi in public works.6 Many women interviewed for the assessment felt that
    participating in public works had improved their standing and respect in their
    communities. Women are nearly always represented in PSNP committees, but not
    always at the number indicated in the PIM. Despite these measures, women are less
    likely to participate in meetings than men, though this is less of an issue in the
    preparation of PSNP Safety Net Plans. Women are more likely than men to use
    alternative mechanisms to the Kebele Appeals Committees (KACs), like local
    Women's Affairs Offices, to air grievances.
b) Pastoral populations: The pastoral pilot design focuses on testing an appropriate
   program for the livelihoods, cultures and traditions found in pastoral areas. The pilot
   included partnerships with NGOs because of the severe shortage of capacity in
   pastoralist woredas. Local food security task forces make use of traditional
   institutions, clan leaders and religious leaders in the implementation of PSNP,
   particularly in targeting, mobilizing for public works and ensuring the safety of PSNP
   resources and personnel. Moreover, public works are developed that do not impinge
   on livestock mobility nor result in competition between different groups.
c) Integration of HIV & AIDS in PSNP: HIV mainstreaming is a focus within the
   PSNP to support the overall national response. Common characteristics of households
   affected by HIV/AIDS are included in targeting criteria, such as elderly-households
   with young children, or households with chronically ill working-age members.
   HIV/AIDS related activities were found to have been planned as part of local PSNP
   planning in only a handful of communities, with the exception of the Tigray region,
   where PSNP has sponsored mass training (over 76,000 participants) in HIV/AIDS.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53.     The PSNP had a substantial institutional impact, largely because it is implemented
using Government systems and structures. During APL II, significant investments in
staffing, systems and processes were made in order to address these constraints:
a) At the federal level, CIDA and EC financed technical assistants supported
    operations in the FSCB, MoFED and the NRM department in the areas of public
    works, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, communications, social development
    and financial management.
b) Systems and processes were reinforced through the development and revision of
    internal guidelines during APL II, including a Graduation Guidance Note, Risk
    Financing Guidelines, and Pastoral Pilot Guidelines.


6
  Female participation in public works programs vary greatly by labor market conditions and program
objectives. The PSNP PIM call for creating employment that women can participate in but sets no quotas.
The 40 percent result is similar to Maharashtra Employment Guarantee Scheme (ODI `The Maharashtra
Employment Guarantee Scheme, India', 2006) which is designed to encourage female participation. In
South Africa's Expanded Public Works Program although women were main target groups, they account
for only 23 percent of employment generated (Grosh et. al 2008 "For Protection and Promotion").


                                                  17
c) Some 760 cashiers and accountants were hired at the woreda level to improve
   timeliness of payments and overall administrative operational capacity, with 96
   percent of the appropriate staffing ratios achieved.
d) Regional procurement officers were contracted in four regions.
e) The PASS payroll system and the unification of the PW and DS beneficiary lists
   contributed improved institutional capacity to manage the PSNP caseload more
   efficiently and transparently. In addition, client cards were designed and introduced
   during the last year of APL II.
f) Extensive training activities were undertaken to shore up capacity. Details on the
   annual training program executed are provided in Annex 2. Some of the impact of
   this training was undermined due to continued high levels of staff turnover
   throughout the Ethiopian civil service.
54.     Capacity was also reinforced through changes in institutional structures:
a) The Government's 2008 Business Process Re-Engineering (BPR) program brought
    together the former Food Security Coordination Bureau and the Disaster Prevention
    and Preparedness Agency as two directorates under the State Minister for Disaster
    Management and Food Security.
b) A Public Works Coordination Unit in the NRMD was fully staffed, albeit with
    delays, with a dedicated budget and similar units created at the regional level.
c) The Channel-1 Coordination Unit established in MoFED facilitated donor funding
    flowing through Government budgeting and financial management systems leading to
    better integration of donor funding overall.
d) Regional Information Centers are being established in five regions to provide more
    real-time monitoring of program performance at the decentralized levels.
e) At the local level, 193 farmer training centers were constructed in 2007-2009 as
    public works projects, including housing for development agents.
55.      Because the PSNP is integrated into government systems and personnel, the
capacity building activities have strengthened institutions in Ethiopia beyond a narrow
project focus. Investments in capacity-enhancing equipment and goods further reinforced
institutions, particularly at the local level where there is a systemic lack of operational
resources like motorcycles, office equipment, computers, printers, and office furniture.
The operational experience obtained through the PSNP, for example in integrated
watershed management and participatory community planning, in targeting and selection
of households, in administering a decentralized program and in monitoring and
evaluation have benefited more broadly institutional capacity, particularly at the local
level. Institutional impacts have been significant at all levels of government.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

56.    The risk to development outcomes is rated as Negligible to low:


                                            18
a) Stakeholder commitment to PSNP remains high. A detailed approach to food security
   policies and the securing of substantial funding for the 2010 ­ 2014 period is in place.
   The PSNP remains a core part of the Government poverty reduction and rural growth
   strategies and has received a high degree of institutional engagement at all levels of
   the Ethiopian government.
b) The achievements of APL II are fully supported through the approval of PSNP APL
   III. The new project broadens the scope of the World Bank support to the Food
   Security Policy and seeks greater impact through inclusion of investments in the
   HABP. The follow-on operation will also reinforce the institutional capacity
   developed during APL II.
c) The assessment of sustainability of the PW investments under APL II is largely
   positive, with some project types (e.g. water and road infrastructure) identifying
   issues. The continued presence of PSNP in these woredas and kebeles will reinforce
   operations and maintenance issues, including training of local staff and communities.
d) The risks of exogenous factors, like economic and natural shocks, which may affect
   the functioning of the safety net are now better managed with the DRF.
e) There is some country-wide risk as Ethiopia has had political stresses that in the past
   have put at risk donor funding. But, even during the tensest moments with donors, the
   humanitarian response system has continued to operate. Moreover, the donors and
   government now have a forum for dialogue on political issues at the DAG level.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
57.     The operation was relevant to the country context and was highly responsive to
Government priorities and strategies. The World Bank's role in bringing international
expertise on safety nets was recognized by the Government and donors as adding value to
the design of APL II. A thorough review of the evaluative evidence and lessons learned
was carried out in preparation of APL II. Sufficient technical expertise, both through the
World Bank and other donors, carried out the technical, financial, social and economic
appraisal APL II. Risks were adequately assessed and mitigation measures identified. The
World Bank placed several conditions on the project to ensure critical issues were
addressed or critical actions taken. For instance, establishment and staffing of the Public
Works Focal Unit and issuing directives for a strengthened appeals mechanism were
conditions of effectiveness and dated covenants were placed on the regular schedule of
reviews.
58.      There were minor shortcomings to quality at entry, namely:
         Developing an approach for pastoral areas was intended but not achieved during
         PSNP I. The design process of the APL II would have been stronger had the
         pastoral program been more fully implemented during APL II.
         Appraisal of FM capacity noted that most of the implementing agencies lacked
         sufficient staff and there were frequent delays in financial reporting. The


                                            19
       mitigation measures for this could have been more strongly linked to meeting
       required staffing levels to address the underlying capacity issues.
       The DRF component was not fully designed at appraisal so a condition of
       disbursement was placed on that component.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

59.     World Bank supervision, rated highly satisfactory, is a best practice example of
effective implementation support. The team ensured basic supervision activities, such as
regular joint implementation missions, filing of ISRs and consistent monitoring of
fiduciary and safeguard policies. Both the PDO and IP ratings remained satisfactory
throughout APL II. ISRs were candid in their assessments of progress and the key
implementation issues facing the program. Ratings for areas facing operational
challenges, like financial management and procurement at times, were downgraded in a
proactive fashion.
60.    The Task Team went beyond this general level of supervision effort. Task Team
members provided on-going technical support, for example by participating directly in
the Rapid Response Teams, Public Works Reviews and donor-government technical
groups. The World Bank was instrumental in ensuring the robust impact evaluation was
thoroughly analyzed and its lessons integrated into PSNP policy discussions.
61.     There were several additional outstanding features to the supervision of PSNP:
a) Through the World Bank's efforts (and those of the other donors), the PSNP is a
    model for donor harmonization and reflects a robust example of implementation of
    the Paris Agenda on Aid Effectiveness. The World Bank's role was critical to
    building effective coordination mechanisms. The formation of the Donor
    Coordination Team (DCT) was critical to effective donor coordination. The Bank
    supported the formation and function of the DCT, including contracting of personnel
    and provision of office space in the World Bank's Ethiopia country office.
b) The Bank Task Team attracted and managed a significant amount of trust fund
    resources that supported various implementation and supervision activities. For
    instance, the Bank-managed PSNP Multi-Donor Trust Fund, financed by bilateral
    funds from Canada, Sweden, Great Britain and Ireland, channeled US$4.3 million to
    studies, technical assistance, consultants and supervision efforts. The Task Team also
    leveraged $0.3 million in funding from the global facility for disaster risk reduction
    and recovery to develop a weather indexation mechanism to support the DRF.
    Without this additional funding, it would have been difficult if not impossible to carry
    out such intensive implementation support with only Bank internal resources
c) The World Bank Task Team has also been proactive in early detection of funding
    gaps and ensuring adequate transition arrangements. The Team processed US$25
    million in additional financing through the global food and fuel crisis facility in
    response to the rising food prices which affected the financial plan of PSNP. And, the
    Task Team worked closely with donors and the Government to develop the approach,


                                            20
   documentation and financial commitments to underpin the next phase of the Food
   Security Program APL III, ensuring that there was no gap in implementation.
d) To inform international best practice on safety nets, the Task Team went beyond the
   more narrow project supervision focus and invested time and resources in learning
   from the PSNP experience, resulting in the publication of the book Designing and
   Implementing a Rural Safety Net in a Low Income Setting: Lessons Learned from
   Ethiopia's Productive Safety Net Program 2005-2009 in 2010. The PSNP experience
   has been presented in numerous internal and external safety net fora, informing
   international practice on safety nets in low-income settings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
62.    The overall rating for World Bank performance is satisfactory, with a stronger
supervision effort and some minor shortcomings during the appraisal phase.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
63.     The Government displayed a high degree of commitment to the PSNP. For
example, it was agreed in late 2008 that the Joint Coordination Committee meetings,
including representation of all key ministry departments, would be chaired by the State
Minister for Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector (DRMFSS) to elevate
the meetings to a more strategic level and ensure more concerted follow-up from
Government. Also affecting the program, in 2008 the GoE implemented the Business
Process Re-engineering (BPR) to reform service delivery by the public sector. The post-
BPR structure brings together the former FSCB and DPPA as two Directorates under the
State Minister for DRMFSS which was beneficial. This reorganization brought some
disruption and changes in staff, but also had the positive effect of facilitating the
coordination of emergency response and the safety net.

64.    Nonetheless, implementation was adversely affected by systemic weaknesses in
the Ethiopian civil service. The Government agreed to several hybrid arrangements to
shore up capacity, mainly through accepting greater levels of technical assistance and
contract staff. But, the underlying problems, including high levels of staff turnover,
remain widespread.
65.    The Government provided significant funding to FSP in general, with the OFSP
and resettlement component largely financed out of the national budget. The utilization of
Government staff to implement PSNP is valued at over $50 million.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                           21
66.    The main implementing agency for the PSNP is the Food Security Coordination
Directorate (FSCD) in conjunction with the Natural Resources Management Directorate
(for PW oversight) and MOFED as the financial channel:
a) The FSCD was the focal point for the program and had overall responsibility for the
   design and operation of the PSNP. The FSCD devoted considerable attention to
   achievement of development objectives, generating a significant level of studies and
   analytical work. FSCD developed new and revised manuals and guidelines to
   systematize procedures. Despite some delays in developing the pastoral pilot, main
   program activities were implemented as planned and with a high degree of
   documentation and evaluation. Nonetheless, procurement and environmental
   management were rated as moderately satisfactory through most of the life of APL II.
b) In terms of financial management, there were some delays and deficiencies in
   financial reporting. MOFED did address these issues, but was slow in informing
   donors which posed a threat to the timely provision of resources to the program.
   MOFED ensured that there were sufficient accountants and cashiers deployed at the
   local levels and set up the Channel I Coordination Unit that began to address some of
   these more systemic challenges as donors began to move an increasing level of
   resources through Government systems. Nonetheless, there were persistent
   shortcomings with the financial management of the program.
c) The Natural Resources Management Department was slow to take on the technical
   responsibility for oversight of the public works and had difficulties maintaining an
   adequate information base on the outputs of the public works. Nonetheless, the
   natural resources staff at the local levels played a key role in PSNP implementation
   including incorporation of integrated watershed management into the PSNP.
67.     The program implementing agencies initiated a detailed review of their food
security policy and programs in 2009 to prepare the next phase of the Food Security
Program (2010-2014). During the ICR mission, all of the donors remarked on the high
degree of government ownership of this design process as a sign of the experience of 5
years of PSNP in developing capacity not only in the operational but also the policy area.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

68.     Overall, implementation progress was satisfactory. Despite modest shortcomings
in processes and procedures, the Government was generally responsive to program needs
and the key development objectives were met. The shortcomings in financial
management, environmental screening and procurement were largely a function of the
PSNP being implemented through existing government channels and by line agency staff
rather than donor driven, ad-hoc project implementation rules and structures. The positive
benefits of increased capacity among line agency and woreda staff is notable.




                                           22
6. Lessons Learned

69.     A range of strategic and operational lessons has been learned from the PSNP APL
series to date (both APL I and II). Some of the most pertinent lessons are captured below.
They are included in this ICR because not all these lessons were evident at the end of
APL I and thus, restricting the discussion to APL II only would miss some of the most
important lessons learned from the PSNP:

a) A shared understanding of the principles of safety net reform is crucial to
   sustaining Government and donor buy-in to these reforms. The PSNP was built on a
   broad-based agreement that the emergency response system was failing to protect
   livelihoods and that a system-wide reform was required. This agreement, together
   with a clearly defined set of principles, helped hold together a coalition of partners
   with a wide array of interests and operating procedures.
b) Effective donor coordination is essential in such a large-scale Government-led
   program with multiple funding agencies and requires significant attention. The
   PSNP is a model of donor collaboration and harmonization reflecting a robust
   example of implementing the Paris Declaration and Accra Agenda on Aid
   Effectiveness. This was built on mechanisms like the coordinated bi-annual joint
   reviews, the creation of the Donor Coordination Team, joint donor-Government
   technical working groups, and agreement on harmonized program indicators,
   financial procedures and reporting requirements.  These effective harmonization and
   coordination structures required dedicated resources and continuous engagement
   particularly given the diversity of views in this Government-led program.
c) A safety net can be implemented through government systems in low-income
   settings. The experience of the PSNP has shown that as long as the basic aims of the
   program are being met and humanitarian risks averted, capacity to deliver more
   sophisticated systems can be built over time. Indeed, integrating the PSNP into
   government systems and structures has resulted in a level of institutional development
   beyond what would have been achieved through a narrow project focus in capacity
   building.
d) Safety net transfers can be well-targeted to the poorest households, even in rural
   communities with widespread poverty and low levels of inequality. Evidence from a
   range of indicators shows that PSNP is well targeted. This suggests that a community-
   based targeting system can be effective in the absence of proxy means test systems
   when capacity is weak and information is limited. However, an independent appeals
   mechanism is an important component of the household targeting system.
e) Achieving timely transfers requires investments in capacity building and
   streamlining procedures. For instance, computerization of the payroll and attendance
   sheets made processing payments easier and faster while strengthening fiduciary
   controls. Putting in place resources upfront also promoted timely transfers.
f) The impacts from the public works created can have important environmental
   rehabilitation and infrastructure development benefits. This in turn enhances
   agricultural productivity and livelihoods and has a positive impact on the food
   security status of the beneficiaries. The quality and ultimate impact of PW
   investments have been furthered by using integrated watershed management

                                           23
   principles, providing sufficient funding for non-labor inputs, developing technical
   norms and guidelines, assigning clear responsibilities for technical supervision to
   local sectoral staff, and carrying out repeated field visits and quality reviews.

70.   The following strategic and operational lessons were learned during the
implementation of PSNP APL II:

a) The implementation of safety net programs through Government systems requires
   continual attention to capacity development and integration with the regular work
   program of operational staff. During APL II, the PSNP deepened efforts to shore up
   institutional capacity, particularly where weaknesses were identified during the first
   phase. Because of systemic weaknesses in the civil service in Ethiopia, such as high
   turnover, training in basic program procedures and systems needs to be repeated and
   continuous training approaches adopted. Measures like recruiting contracted staff can
   reinforce capacity when overall civil service reforms are not yet effective.
b) Up-front financing is necessary for safety nets to truly be `scalable' in responding
   when crises hit. With the international food price hikes and drought in 2008, the DRF
   mechanism had already put resources in place up front which resulted in a quick
   response which protected the incomes and assets of households. Putting in place ex-
   ante contingent financing was an innovation of APL II and indeed for the safety net
   experience internationally and created the ability to respond swiftly to crisis. That
   there were no reductions in the food gap for PSNP households during a combined
   drought and international food and fuel crisis is a testament to the responsiveness.
c) The pace of graduation from a safety net needs to be set against a realistic
   assessment of overall economic trends and conditions. Graduation cannot be
   expected to result only from the safety net and needs to be viewed with an
   understanding of the multiple paths out of poverty.
d) Cash and food transfers can be combined successfully in a safety net as long as
   there is flexibility. Despite PSNP's `cash first' principle, the food price spikes during
   APL II caused erosion in the basic purchasing power of the cash transfer. PSNP
   switched to a mixture of cash and food which helped respond to beneficiary
   preferences and stabilize the protective benefits of the basic transfers.
e) Successive impact evaluations provide valuable information not only to measure
   program effect but to identify areas that heighten impact. The PSNP impact
   evaluation measured many critical program variables in a robust manner. In addition,
   because of the way the impact evaluation was structured, several valuable pieces of
   information emerged which are not usually covered in program impact evaluations,
   including: (a) household level impacts were highly sensitive to whether safety net
   transfers were delivered in a full, timely and predicable manner; and (b) impacts were
   stronger when combined with other food security interventions. The well-designed
   impact evaluation has enabled the Program to generate lessons to inform international
   best practices on safety nets.




                                            24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to the discussions with key government stakeholders during the ICR mission,
written comments were received from the DRMFSS. As overall coordinator of the
program DRMFSS made some editorial comments on the draft text of the ICR. These
comments were incorporated in the final version of the ICR. Furthermore, DRMFSS
expressed disagreement with the moderately satisfactory rating for the performance of the
implementing agencies. Over the course of APLII the program has seen a year on year
improvement in the implementation of the program, DRMFSS is therefore of the opinion
that the implementing Agencies have performed satisfactory (see for details annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers and stakeholders

All main donors were consulted during the ICR mission and written comments on the
draft ICR were received from Irish Aid, CIDA, Netherlands Embassy, DFID, USAID and
WFP.
Overall the development partners found that the ICR was a well presented and
informative document that is effective in capturing APL II results, the implementation
experience and lessons learned. Various editing comments were made by the partners,
which have been taken into consideration in the final version of the document (see for
details annex 7).




                                           25
    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

           (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal 
                                                                                        Actual (USD 
                       Components                                   Estimate (USD                             Percentage of Appraisal 
                                                                                         millions) 
                                                                       millions) 
 1. Safety Net Grants                                                         836.5              868.1                   104% 
 2. Drought Risk Financing                                                     25.0              114.4                   458% 
 3. Institutional Support                                                      47.3               47.3                   100% 
                                     Total Baseline Cost                      909.3                                          
Physical Contingencies                                                          3.0                                          
Price Contingencies                                                             3.0                                          
                                        Total Project Costs                   915.3            1,029.7                   113% 

    (b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                                 Appraisal 
                                                                 Type of                             Actual           Percentage of 
                     Source of Funds                                             Estimate        
                                                               Cofinancing                        (USD millions)        Appraisal 
                                                                               (USD millions) 

Opening Balance (carryover funds from APL I)                                   56.5                   0.0                 0% 
Sources of Funds                                                                                                            
                                 Government of Ethiopia                                        2.0                 5.6            280% 
              International Development Association (IDA)                                    175.0               207.9            119% 
         Department for International Development (DFID)                                     194.6               139.3             72%
                                   European Commission                                       195.6               160.8             82% 
                                           Irish Aid (DCI)                                    18.0                47.4            263% 
    United States Agency for International Development
                                                  (USAID)                                     38.0               314.2            827% 
         Canada International Development Agency (CIDA)                                       14.4                87.4            607% 
                               World Food Program (WFP)                                       26.6                25.1             94% 
         Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)                                                          29.4              n.a
                                              Netherlands                                                         31.3              n.a 
 Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction and Recovery                                                          0.3              n.a
Closing Balance (Financing Gap or Surplus)                                     194.6                  19.0                n.a 
Total                                                                          915.3                  1,029.7             113% 


Notes: (i) CIDA contribution includes financing allocated to APL 1 that was disbursed during the APL 2 period. This was 
recorded in the PSNP APL I as financing to APL I. However, because MOFED records include it as a source of funds to APL 2, it 
is included here as a source of financing and attributed as expenditure; (ii) the Government allocation is the inkind 
contribution to the PSNP until July 2010; (iii) For APL II Actuals, inkind contributions to the PSNP have been valued at the 
prevailing market rate per year; (iv) The USAID contribution to the PSNP is allocated through NGOs and WFP; (v) No carry
over balance from APL 1 to APL 2 is shown here because MOFED attributed expenditure to all APL 1 financing. 




                                                          26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Safety Net Grants

Number of Woredas and Beneficiaries assisted by PSNP 2007-2009
              2007                                  2008                             2009
              Woredas          Beneficiaries        Woredas       Beneficiaries      Woredas       Beneficiaries
Amhara        62               2,519,829            64            2,519,829          31            1,453,707
Oromia        62               1,378,876            71            1,378,876          64            2,519,829
SNNP          58               1,298,981            79            1,298,981          76            1,438,134
Tigray        31               1,453,707            31            1,453,707          79            1,459, 160
Dire Dawa     1                52,614               1             52,614             1             52,614
Harari        1                16,136               1             16,136             1             16,136
Afar          29               472,229              29            472,229            32            472,229
Somali        0                0                    6             162,671            6             162,671
TOTAL         244              7,192,372            282           7,355,043          290           7,574,480

Distribution of Public Works and Direct Support Beneficairies
                           Public Works      %               Direct Support     %                  Total
2007                       6175122           86%             1,017,250                14%          7,192,372
2008                       6309753           86%             1,045,290                14%          7,355,043
2009                       5,958,564         79%             1,615,916                21%          7,574,480
APL II Average                               83%                                      17%

Major Public Works Outputs for the Years 2007, 2008 and 2009
Sub-projects                      Unit               2007              2008                 2009            Total
Soil and Water Conservation
Land rehab-/area closures         hectares     47,154            25,323             94,673            167,150
Soil embankment constr.           km           33,285            21,279             36,890            91,454
Stone embankment constr.          km           38,190            54,669             91,871            184,730
Seedling production               Number       301,778,600       887,990,000        132,169,420       1,321,938,020
Seedling planting                 Number       12,883,657         852,480,000       17,958,043        883,321,700
Tree nurseries                    Number        285              419                 410               1,114
Water Supply
Pond constr./rehabilitation       Number       88,936            31,594             13,397            133,927
Spring development                Number       598               1,537              1,549             3,684
Well construction                 Number       491               -                  771               1,262
Small-scale irrigation canal
constr/rehab                      km           2,679             712                2,355             5,746
Social Services
School constr/rehab               Number       340               1,291              446               2,077
Health post construction          Number       71                56                 105               232
Community Roads
Roads construction                km           8,323             8,683              6,730             23,736
Roads maintenance                 km           20,458            12,120             9,839             42,417




                                                            27
Component 2: Drought Risk Financing Mechanism

                                                              2008        2009
Number of beneficiaries with extended payments (millions)     4.43        6.42


Component 3: Institutional Support

Main outputs of the institutional support component consist of (a) additional staff
contracted at federal, regional and woreda levels and technical assistance, (b) training
activities, (c) goods and equipment purchased to reinforce institutional capacity, and (d)
studies and surveys, as detailed in the tables below:

Staff and technical assistance:
Federal level: Over 40 permanent and contract staff, including public works coordination
unit specialists, communication specialist, and a social development specialist were
involved in the coordination and supervision of the program during APLII.

Contracted staff at Regional and zonal level:
 Public works focal points (21)
 Pastoral specialist (2)
 Procurement coordinators (4)
 Social mobilization (4)
 Accountant (25)
 IT specialists (3)
 PSNP implementation specialists (6)

Contracted staff at Woreda level:
 Recruitment of 355 accountants and 405 cashiers
 Public works/natural resources focal points (82)
 Social development, HIV/AIDs specialists (79)
 PSNP coordinators (64)
 Public works technicians (5)

Training:

2007
       Participatory watershed management ­ Amhara, Tigray, and Harari regions ­ 200
       staff
       Administration Council training ­ Oromia, SNNP, and Dire Dawa ­ 310 staff

2008
       Financial management training ­ Oromia, Amhara, Tigray and SNPP
       Participatory watershed management ­ pastoral pilots in Afar and Somali ­ 31
       staff

                                            28
           Training on the new graduation guidance note for woreda staff
           Training on automated Payroll and Attendance Sheet System (PASS) ­ regional
           and woreda staff
           Training on guidelines for piloting PSNP in pastoral areas
           Translation of Environmental and Social Management Framework Operational
           Summary and IPM documents and environmental screening formats into regional
           working languages (Amharic, Tigrigna and Oromifa) and distribution of copied to
           all regions and woredas.

2009
           Successive training sessions in PASS ­ 478 woreda and zonal participants
           Under watershed activities, 76,626 people in Tigray received mass education and
           in Harari 109 watershed development committee members and 12 development
           agents participated in a two-day workshop about HIV/AIDS transmission and
           protection measures
           Multi-subject 3-day training workshop (PIM, graduation, M & E, ESMF) in
           Tigray for 242 woreda experts
           Community-based public works and watershed planning, off-farm package and
           credit, business plan preparation, resource management and graduation technical
           training in Amhara region for 397 woreda experts and 1,767 kebele development
           agents


Goods and Equipment:

Items                    Quantity   Distributed to:
Motorcycles              118        51 to Oromia, 52 to SNNPR and 9 Afar Regions
Generator sets           114        40 to Amhara, 32 Oromia, 17 Tigrayand 25 SNNPR
Photocopiers             404        65 to Oromia, 122 Amhara, 130 SNNPR, 63 Tigray, 21 Pilot
                                    Woredas, and 11FSCB
Fax Machines             258        64 to Oromia, 57 Amhara, 60 SNNPR, 55 Tigray, 21 Pilot
                                    woredas and 1 FSCB
Cash Safe Boxes          230        61 to Oromia, 64 Amhara, 79 SNNPR and 26 Tigray
Vehicles (procured       207        59 to Amhara, 44 Oromia, 72 SNNPR, 16 Tigray, 1 Dire
but not distributed                 Dawa, 1 Harari, 7 Somali and 7 Afar
under APL II)
Desktop Computers        468        61 to Oromia, 138 Amhara, 76 Tigray, 151 SNNPR, 42
                                    FSCD
Uniform Power            470        63 to Oromia, 138 Amhara, 76 Tigray, 151 SNNPR, 42
Supply                              FSCD
Stabilizers              470        63 to Oromia, 138 Amhara, 76 Tigray, 151 SNNPR, 42
                                    FSCD
Printers                 470        63 to Oromia, 138 Amhara, 76 Tigray, 151 SNNPR, 42
                                    FSCD
Filing cabinets          136        SNNPR
Laptop computers         13         4 Oromia, 2 Amhara, 4 Tigray, 3 SNNPR



                                              29
Studies and Surveys:

                          Consultancy                        2007   2008   2009
PSNP
JRIS Facilitation
Automation of Payroll and Attendance Sheet
IDS/ODI Panel Survey
3,6,9 Pilot Survey
IFPRI FSP Impact Assessment
PSNP Review
OFSP Review
FSP Programme Document (2010-2014)
PSNP Programme Document (2010-2014)
HABP Programme Document (2010-2014)
Institutional Mapping
Risk Financing
Risk Financing Mechanism Development
Financial Management
Purchasing Power Study
Banking Sector Assessment
PSNP Module for Financial Transparency & Accountability
Perception Survey, 2008
Public Works
Public Work Impact Assessment
Public Work Review (1st - planning process)
Public Work Review (2nd sub-projects)
Pastoral
Pastoral Pilot Study
Pastoral Pilot Guidelines
Institutional Capacity Needs Assessment for Pastoral Areas
PSNP Pastoral Areas Pilot M & E System Consultancy
Pastoral Pilot Lessons Learned Study
Cross-cutting issues
Gender Study
HIV/AIDS Mainstreaming into PSNP
Nutrition Pilot
Communications Strategy




                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Cost effectiveness of safety net programs are analyzed in several ways:

First, cost efficiency of the safety net transfers themselves are a function of the
accuracy of targeting, the labor intensity of the public works and the general overhead
costs of the program, which together help determine the overall share of program
resources that actually reach the poor through transfers. In the case of the PSNP, the cost
efficiency of the transfers is high due to:
      Accurate targeting with little leakage to the non-food insecure. a combination of
        accurate targeting of beneficiaries (little leakage to the non-food insecure),
      High labor intensity, on average 80 percent. This compares very favorably with
        international experience in cost effective public works programs.7
      Overhead costs are within benchmark ranges for safety nets. These costs were
        14 percent over APL II including a valuation for all Government staff working on
        the program as well as all institutional support expenditures.8 Costs are typically
        higher in the early phases of safety nets as institutional investments in equipment,
        technical assistance and capacity building are more intensive, as is the case for ht
        PSNP in this phase.

A further program efficiency is specific to PSNP and involves the shift from food to cash
transfers. Given the 2008 mix of cash and food beneficiaries, the estimated annual
savings to the program of introducing cash payments is over US$21 million, mainly in
savings of transportation and storage costs. This savings is equivalent to almost 300,000
incremental cash beneficiaries.

In terms of economic impact of the infrastructure created, this analysis applies
traditional cost benefit analysis to the public works outputs for those sectors where such
analysis can be carried out. The 2008 Public Works Impact Assessment conducted




7
  Labor intensity of PSNP is estimated at 80% (non-labor costs calculated from capital and administrative
budget expenditures). This is quite high by international standards. The large-scale public works program
averaged 60-70% in India (Maharashtra Employment Guarantee Scheme), 70% in Korea's public works
program, 40-50% in Argentina's Trabajar program and 60-70% in Bangladesh's Food for Work Program
(source: "Systemic Shocks and Social Protection: Role and Effectiveness of Public Works Programs"
Kalanidhi Subbarao, Social Protection Discussion Paper No. 302, World Bank. January 2003.)
8
  Comparison of administrative costs across types of safety nets is notoriously difficult due to definitional
and data issues; i.e., whether capacity building is included or just operational costs. In Grosh et. al 2008
"For Protection and Promotion: Design and Implementation of Effective Safety Nets", a review of
administrative costs of programs found that (pg 391-392) administrative costs of well executed cash or near
cash programs cluster in the range of 8-15 percent of total costs. The average share of administrative costs
in food-related programs was 22 percent due to higher logistical costs. And, (cash based) public works
programs averaged 5 percent. PSNP combines elements of all three, with cash transfers via direct support,
cash for public works and food transfers.


                                                     31
economic analysis on completed public works projects in ten sample watersheds
nationwide, which are summarized below:

    Soil and Water Conservation: Of the households interviewed, 34% reported
    significant benefits from the area enclosures in terms of forage for livestock. Benefit-
    cost ratios for the SWC measures were calculated that covered the benefits of soil loss
    reduction, woody biomass and forage production and carbon sequestration. The
    results range from 1.5 to 2.6, with an average of 1.8.
    Water Supply Projects: In addition to health gains from greater access to clean
    water and resulting increased labor productivity, water projects were found to reduce
    the distance women and children travel to fetch water. This timesaving allows
    household members to engage in other value-added household activities like crop
    production. Using the willingness-to-pay method, the discounted benefit-to-cost ratio
    of a typical single developed spring was calculated to be 3.7.
    Small-scale irrigation: It is estimated that even very small-irrigated plots (190 m2)
    are capable of generating gross margins of between ETB 4,200 to 6,000/yr (double
    cropped). Thus, even micro-scale irrigation can have a significant impact on
    household livelihoods and food security.
    Health Projects: Potential impacts of investments in health facilities will be through
    improved household labor productivity and a reduction in health care costs from not
    being ill. Two approaches to benefit-to-cost analysis for this type of project were
    used: (i) willingness to pay for medical services, and (ii) the opportunity costs of
    labor lost due to illness. The former method provided an estimated benefit-to-cost
    ratio of 1.8 and the latter one of 2.2.
    Rural roads: PSNP rehabilitated roads are providing better access, particularly for
    vehicles, carts, and mules. As the roads constructed by the PSNP generally consist of
    small additional sections to existing roads it was not possible to determine benefit-to-
    cost ratios. However, data on time-savings due to the PSNP road segments were as
    follows: reaching health post - 17.8 minutes; kebele office - 7.1 minutes; market - 18
    minutes, school - 16.3 minutes.

These findings are consistent with other evidence on other investments in Ethiopia. A
recent World Bank project found general SWC ERRs of 10-17% (World Bank/GEF).9
Other research in Ethiopia on stone bunds found yield increases 20-50% with an ERR of




9
  Economic analysis of the Ethiopia Sustainable Land Management Project (World Bank Project Appraisal
Document Report No. 42927-ET) found an ERR of 10% for physical investments in SWC (stone bund,
soil bund, fanyajuu, and grass strips), and 17% for SWC physical structures combined with fodder on
bunds and intercropping.

                                                 32
 46 percent.10 Soil bund returns were more variable by location with marginal or negative
returns in high rainfall areas.11

Another issue of economic impact of concern to the PSNP has been the possible local
inflationary effects of shifting from food aid to cash. Recent analysis found that the
recent food price inflation in Ethiopia can be largely explained by overall nominal
increases in prices, which have in turn been very closely associated with increases in the
money supply.12 In addition, a 2008 woreda-level analysis of the potential food inflation
effects of the PSNP similarly concluded that "prices in PSNP woredas did not increase
faster than that of non-PSNP woredas".13




10
   Pender, J. and B. Gebremedhin. 2006. "Land Management, Crop Production, and Household Income in
the highlands of Tigray, Northern Ethiopia: An Econometric Analysis." In Pender, J., F. Place, and S. Ehui
(eds) Strategies for sustainable Land Management in the East African Highlands. Washington D.C.: IFPRI.
Kassiea et. al. "Estimating Returns to Soil Conservation Adoption in the Northern Ethiopian Highlands"
Environmental Economics Policy Forum for Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 2007.
Nyssen, et. al., "Interdisciplinary on-site evaluation of stone bunds to control soil erosion on cropland in
Northern Ethiopia" Soil and Tillage Research, Volume 94, Issue 1, May 2007, Pages 151-163.
Stochastic Dominance Analysis of Soil and Water Conservation in Subsistence Crop Production in the
Eastern Ethiopian Highlands: The Case of the Hunde-Lafto Area" Journal of Environmental and Resource
Economics Volume 32, Number 4 / December, 2005.
11
   Menale Kassie, Stein Holden, Gunnar Köhlin, and Randy Bluffstone. "Economics of Soil Conservation
Adoption in High-Rainfall Areas of the Ethiopian Highlands" Environment for Development Discussion
Paper Series March 2008 . EfD DP 08-09.
12 "Explaining Sources of Food Price Inflation in Ethiopia" World Bank, June 30, 2007 
13
   "Cereal markets and productive social safety net program (PSNP) in Ethiopia", Shahidur Rashid,
Alemayehu Seyoum, Belay Fekadu, Befekadu Behute, Policy Brief 4, December, 2008 UNECA Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia.

                                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Arianna Legovini             Senior Economist                      AFTQK
Marylou Bradley              Senior Operations Officer             AFTH3
Marito Garcia                Lead Human Develop. Economist         AFTH3
Trina Haque                  Lead Economist                        AFTH3
Ernst Lutz                   Consultant                            MNSSD
Southsavy V. Nakhavanit      Program Assistant                     AFTH3
John Nyaga                   Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist         AFTQK
Edwige Reichelt              Office Manager                        AFTH3
Carolyn Winter               Sr. Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
William Wiseman              Economist                             AFTH3
 Eshetu Yimer                Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist         AFTFM

Supervision/ICR
Tafesse Freminatos Abrham    Consultant                            AFTFM
Eleni Albejo                 Program Assistant                     AFCE3
Harold H. Alderman           Adviser                               PA9SS
Tesfaye Ayele                Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Shimelis W. Badisso          Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Abiy Demissie Belay          Financial Management Analyst          AFTFM
Marylou R. Bradley           Senior Operations Officer             WBIHS
Ian Leslie Campbell          Consultant                            AFTSP
Sarah Elizabeth Coll-Black   E T Consultant                        AFTSP
Endashaw Tadesse Gossa       Senior Operations Officer             AFTSP
Samuel Haile Selassie        Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR
Laketch Mikael Imru          Sr. Rural Development Specialist      AFTAR
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd      Rural Finance Adviser                  ARD
Sorssa Natea Merga           E T Consultant                      AFTH3 - HIS
Southsavy V. Nakhavanit      Temporary                             AFTSP
Richard Olowo                Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Larissa Pelham               Consultant                            AFTSP
Mulat Negash Tegegn          E T Consultant                        AFTFM
William David Wiseman        Senior Economist                      AFTSP
Eshetu Yimer                 Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist         AFTFM
Trina Haque                  Country Operations Adviser            LCC2C
Carolyn Winter               Sr. Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
Colin Andrews                Sr. Social Development Specialist     HDNSP
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus        Lead Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Margaret Grosh               Lead Economist                        LCSHD
Qaiser Khan                  Sector Lead Economist                 AFTSP

                                             34
Bassam Ramadan              Sector Manager                         HDNSP
Francesco Sarno             Consultant                             AFTEN
Emil Tesliuc                Sr. Economist                          AFTHD
Julia Van Domelen           Consultant                             AFTSP
Maniza Naqvi                Sr. Social Protection Specialist       AFTSP
Josiane Luchmun             Program Assistant                      AFTSP
Luis Schwarz                Sr. Finance Officer                    CTRFC


(b) Staff Time and Cost (not including trust fund resources)
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                      4.59
  FY07                                                                    134.56
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                           Total:                                         139.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                     40.94
  FY08                                                                    157.96
                           Total:                                         198.90




                                             35
     Annex 5. PSNP Monitoring and Evaluation Instruments and Impact Evaluation Findings


  Types of                       Information provided                            Frequency                Examples of
  reports                                                                                                  indicators
Monitoring      - Regular collection of information at output and            - Monthly from         - Number of public
Reports         activity level, including regular financial reports          woreda to region;      works completed
                (IFRs).                                                      - Quarterly to         - Volume of transfers
                                                                             Federal level          delivered
Information     - Information collection from a sample of woredas            - Every two            - Date and amount of
Center          largely focused on timeliness of transfers, but also         weeks                  transfers to woredas
Reports         includes price data.                                                                and beneficiaries
                                                                                                    - Maize prices
Rapid           - Regular assessments of implementation at kebele,           - Every two            - Number of households
Response        woreda and regional levels to address critical               months from            targeted
Mechanism       implementation problems as they occur. This includes         Federal level          - Beneficiary
Report          transfers to beneficiaries, public works, capacity issues    (regularly from        satisfaction with PSNP
                and others.                                                  regional and
                                                                             below)
Annual           - Purchasing power study to inform the setting of an        - Annual               - Average prices in
Assessments      appropriate wage rate for the PSNP                                                 PSNP markets over
                 - PW Review (planning) to assess the adequacy of            - Annual               time
                 PSNP public works plans                                                            - Number of public
                 - PW Review (technical) to review the quality and           - Annual               works meeting
                 sustainability of PSNP PW                                                          technical standards
                 - Risk Financing (RF) Review to determine the               - As needed            - Number of Appeal
                 effectiveness of the RF response, if triggered                                     Committees established
                 - Roving Appeal Audit to assess the functioning of          - Annual               - Volume of goods
                 the appeal system                                                                  procured
                 - Roving Procurement Assessment to review                   - Annual
                 procurement processes at woreda level
Audits           - The Financial Audit includes an audit of accounts;        - Quarterly            - Percent of households
                 systems audit; and review of transactions to                rolling, annual        receiving full payment
                 beneficiaries to ensure that funds were used for                                   - Quality of food stock
                 purposes intended.                                                                 records
                 - The Commodity Audit review to ensure in-kind              - Annual
                 resources are used for the purpose intended
Evaluations     - Public Works Impact Assessment to determine if the         - Every two years      - Benefit-cost
                objective of the PSNP PW were met                                                   assessment of public
                 - Biannual Impact Evaluation, a regionally                  - Every two years      works
                 representative household survey, to assess outcomes                                - Change in household
                 and impacts of all component of FSP                         - As needed            food gap, assets
                 - IDS/ODI Panel Survey 2006 ­ 2008
                  The Financial Transparency and Accountability                                     -Targeting fairness,
                 Perception Survey (FTAPS) fielded in 2008                                          information, changes in
                 - Risk Financing impact assessment to determine if                                 quality of life
                 the objectives of RF were met
                                                                                                    -Coverage etc.

     Source: World Bank. Project Appraisal Document for Phase Three of the Productive Safety Net Program. Washington, 
     D.C.: World Bank, 2009. 




                                                            36
Household-level Impact Evaluation: 14

Impact evaluation methodology: The impact evaluation is based on longitudinal quantitative
survey data collected at the household and locality levels. These data were collected in the four
major regions covered by the Food Security Program; from north to south these are Tigray,
Amhara, Oromiya and SNNPR. The first survey was implemented in June-August 2006 with the
bulk of the interviewing conducted in July. The follow-up survey was implemented in June and
early July 2008 so differences between rounds due to seasonality considerations should not be
large.

The design of the 2006 Food Security Survey sample was based on power calculations conducted
to determine the minimum number of sample enumeration areas and households needed to be
able to identify impacts of the Food Security Program. The sample is clustered at the woreda
level. 49 woredas were randomly sampled proportional to size from a list of 153 chronically food
insecure woredas stratified by region. Within each woreda, sample kebele serving as Enumeration
Areas were randomly selected from a list of kebele with active Productive Safety Net
Programmes (PSNP). Within each EA, 15 beneficiary and 10 non-beneficiary households were
sampled from separate lists for each group, yielding a sample of 25 households per EA. This
yielded a sample of 146 EAs and a sample of 3,688 households. Households were drawn from
PW beneficiaries alone as DS beneficiaries are few in number and the transfers are low in value,
making it difficult to carry out matching or measure impact.

The survey instrument consisted of two parts: (1) A community questionnaire that includes a set
of questions administered to local community leaders within the sample EAs and a survey of
local market prices; and (2) A household questionnaire. These instruments were designed to: (i)
capture the impact, outcome, output and process indicators identified in a Log Frame (dated
February 2006) associated with the Food Security Program (FSP); (ii) capture information that
would permit the assessment of impact using matching techniques, while accounting for
behavioral responses by households and design features that might affect the impact of the FSP
on these indicators; and (iii) draw from survey instruments that were extensively pilot tested and
implemented to collect useful data. The household questionnaire had seven modules covering
basic household characteristics; land use, crop production and related agricultural activities;
assets; income apart from own-agricultural activities and credit; access to the Productive Safety
Nets and Other Food Security Programs; consumption; and health, illness, shocks and poverty
perceptions.

The follow-up survey in 2008 re-interviewed the households surveyed in 2006. The survey
instruments were nearly identical to those used in 2006 so as to maximize comparability across
the two rounds. Questions on time invariant characteristics were dropped, a few additional
questions on program operations were added and an anthropometry module was also included.
Attrition was relatively small. A total of 137 households (or 3.7 percent of the baseline sample)
attrited, a third of which were concentrated in two EAs that could not be re-surveyed. Therefore,
the 2008 survey encompassed 3,551 households in 146 EAs.

Analysis of the data is based on the construction of a comparison group from among non-
beneficiary households that was similar to PSNP beneficiaries before the program began, derived



14
  Derived from Gilligan, D., Hoddinott, J., Kumar, N. and A. Taffesse. "An Impact Evaluation of
Ethiopia's Productive Safety Nets Program", International Food Policy Research Institute, March 16, 2009.

                                                   37
by matching beneficiaries to non-beneficiaries based on observable household and community
characteristics. The impact evaluation estimates impacts using nearest neighbor matching (NNM),
a form of covariate matching in which the comparison group sample of non-beneficiaries is
selected based on similarity to the beneficiary sample in observable characteristics. Analysis is
based on "difference-in-difference" or "double difference" estimate of impact (the difference in
outcomes between 2006 and 2008 for beneficiaries compared to the difference in outcomes
between 2006 and 2008 for non-beneficiaries).


Summary Findings15:

Against the background of rising food prices and widespread drought, participation in the public
works component of the PSNP (defined as receipt of at least 100 Birr in payments over the first
five months of 2006, 2007 and 2008) has modest effects. It improves food security by 0.40
months and increases growth in livestock holdings by 0.28 Tropical Livestock Units (TLU). It
leads to an increase of 4.4 percentage points in the likelihood that a household is forced to make a
distress asset sale.

These aggregate results, however, mask important differences within the sample of beneficiary
households:

Households that received low levels of transfers (defined as less than 900 Birr over the first five
months of 2006, 2007 and 2008) were much more likely to make distress sales, especially if they
reported being affected by drought as were households whose transfers were characterized by a
high degree of variability. By contrast, there is no impact on distress sales when transfers are
higher, when they are less variable and when households also receive OFSP services. Further,
when transfers were low, but predictable, households could access consumption credit as a means
of avoiding distress sales.

Program impacts on asset accumulation are greater when higher levels of transfers are received
and when participants have access to both the PSNP and the OFSP. On average, households
receiving high levels of transfers (defined as more than 900 Birr over the first five months of
2006, 2007 and 2008) had a 14.3 per cent higher growth rate in the value of their livestock
holdings. High levels of transfers and access to the OFSP improved food security between 2006
and 2008 by 0.45 months. Results from the baseline evaluation fielded in 2006 showed that
access to the PSNP and OFSP improved food security by 0.36 months, thus giving a combined
impact of an improvement in food security of 0.81 months since the introduction of the program.

Access only to public works transfers, or only to specific OFSP packages of services such as
irrigation or seeds, had no effect on agricultural productivity as measured by maize yields. By
contrast, households where both public works transfers and these OFSP services were received
saw large increases ­ 243 to 266 kg/ha - in maize yields.




15
  It is not possible to assess the impact of new assets constructed by the PSNP program. Because they are
community assets, they potentially provide a flow of benefits to PSNP and non-PSNP households alike
within the same community


                                                   38
Access to high levels of public works transfers protected households from the malign effects of
drought. Restricting the sample to respondents who indicated that they had been adversely
affected by drought in 2007, households receiving a high level of transfers and OFSP services
accumulated 0.88 more TLU than non-beneficiary households that experienced this shock.

Payment for at least 10 days work per month in the three months prior to the 2008 survey
(specifically, the receipt of at least 80 Birr in March, April and May 2008) improved food
security even though food prices were rising dramatically at the time. Restricting the sample to
households affected by drought in 2008, receipt of this level of transfers raised the growth rate of
caloric acquisition (relative to non-beneficiaries) by 30 percent while increasing livestock
holdings by 0.89 TLU. However, households who were receiving public works transfers, but low
or no transfers in this three month period prior to the survey saw their food security deteriorate
relative to non-beneficiaries.

Taken altogether, these results provide a modestly positive view of the impact of public works,
transfers and access to the OFSP. When households receive reasonably high levels of transfers,
when these transfers are predictable, and when they also receive access to OFSP services
designed to improve farm productivity, food security improves, asset growth is faster and yields
rise. Further, the program does act as a safety net provided transfers are reliable. By contrast, low
and unpredictable levels of transfer have less positive impacts and the uncertainty of their receipt
forces households to be more likely to make asset distress sales. Increasing transfers to
beneficiaries, making them more predictable and continuing to strengthen the links to productive
components of the OFSP will further improve the impact of the FSP.




                                                 39
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                                             
                                    


   Abridged Implementation Completion Report for the  
               Productive Safety Net Programme 
                                     
                                APL II  
                                    
                  Start date: 31 January, 2007 
                  End date: 31 December, 2009  
                   Closing date: 30 June, 2010 

                                    




                                  40
ACRONYMS
BoARD      Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Development
BoFED      Bureau of Finance and Economic Development
BPR        Business Process Reengineering
DFID       Department for International Development (British overseas aid)
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency (Canadian overseas aid)
DCT        Donor Coordination Team
DHS        Demographic Health Survey
DWG        Donor Working Group
EC         European Commission (Rural Development and Food Security section of the
           Delegation to Ethiopia)
EFSRA      Emergency Food Security Reserve Administration
EGS        Employment Generation Scheme
EGTE       Ethiopian Grain Trade Enterprise
EDRP       Emergency Drought Recovery Project
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
ETB        Ethiopian Birr
EWRD       Early Warning and Response Department (previously Disaster Preparedness and
           Response Agency)
FPWCU      Federal Public Works Coordination Unit
FSCB       Food Security Coordination Bureau (now FSCD)
FSP        Food Security Programme
FSPt       Food Security Project (Donor funded programme)
FSCD       Food Security Coordination Directorate (previously FSCB)
FTAP       Financial Transparency and Accountability Survey
FTC        Farmer Training Centre
IFPRI      International Food Policy Research Institute
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
JCC        Joint Coordination Committee
JRIS       Joint Review, Implementation and Supervision [Mission]
KAC        Kebele Appeals Committee
KFSTF      Kebele Food Security Task Force
MDG        Millennium Development Goal
MEHRET     Managing Environmental Resources to enable Transition to Sustainable
           Livelihoods (Joint Programme between MoARD and WFP)

                                       41
METT          Monitoring and Evaluation Technical Taskforce
MoARD         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MoFED         Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoLSA         Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs
NRMD          Natural Resource Management Directorate
OFSP          Other Food Security Programmes
OVI           Objectively Verifiable Indicator
PASDEP        Plan for Accelerated and Sustainable Development to End Poverty
PIM           Programme Implementation Manual
PSNP          Productive Safety Net Programme
PWFP          Public Works Focal Person
RFSCO         Regional Food Security Coordination Office
RPWFU         Regional Public Works Focal Unit
RTCC          Regional Technical Coordination Committees
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency (Swedish overseas aid)
SNNP          Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples (Region)
SWC           Soil and Water Conservation
USAID         United States Agency International Development (US overseas aid)
WFP           World Food Programme



GLOSSARY OF ETHIOPIA WORDS USED

Belg          Short rains, falling between February and May
Kebele        Low level Government administrative unit. Kebeles tend to be made up
              of between 1,000 to 5,000 households.
Meher         Long rains, falling between June and September
Woreda        Mid-level Government administrative unit. Woredas tend to be made up
              of between 15 and 30 Kebeles




               


               


               


                                           42
Table of Contents 

1. Introduction ....................................................................................43

2. Programme Objectives ..................................................................44

3. Programme Scale and Coverage ...................................................44

4. Programme Performance by Component ....................................44

  4.1 Safety Net Grants44
  4.2 Institutional Support .......................................................... 47
  4.3 Integrated Risk Financing ................................................. 48
5. Outcomes and Impact ....................................................................48

6. Financial Management Performance ...........................................50

7. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................50

8. Major Factors Affecting Programme Performance ....................51

  8.1 Efficiency ......................................................................... 52
  8.1 Effectiveness .................................................................... 53
9. Lessons Learned ............................................................................54




                                        43
    1. Introduction
The Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP) was designed to make a transition from relief to
development and from the traditional model of temporary response to chronic food insecurity
through food aid and relief by creating a programme which not only met food deficits but also
reduced household vulnerability and improved resilience against shocks. The PSNP approach is
to support the creation of food security through protecting and building household assets and
community assets. The objective of the Programme is to `provide transfers to the food insecure
population in chronically food insecure woredas in a way that prevents asset depletion at the
household level and creates assets at the community level16'.

Using this approach the Programme expects to `address immediate human needs while i)
simultaneously supporting the rural transformation process, ii) preventing long-term
consequences of short-term consumption shortages, (iii) encouraging households to engage in
production and investment, and (iv) promoting market development by increasing household
purchasing power17'.

The Programme expects to achieve the following outcomes:
 Food consumption assured and asset depletion prevented for [chronically] food insecure
   households.
 Markets stimulated and access to services and natural resources enhanced for PSNP
   [participants] and other households.
 Natural environment rehabilitated and enhanced18.

The PSNP Program (APL II) is made up of three components:
i) Safety Net Grants
ii) Institutional Support
iii)Drought Risk Financing

The PSNP differs from the emergency system by improving the productivity of transfers; both
through the focus on quality public works and by providing a significant proportion of transfers in
cash, thereby stimulating markets through an increase in demand (and indirectly encouraging
increased production and investment).

The PSNP was officially launched in 2005, with an agreed plan to support 4.5 million chronically
food insecure people in SNNP, Amhara, Tigray, Oromiya, Dire Dawa and Harari regions. In 2006,
the programme plan was increased to provide support to 6.7 million in these six regions, as well
as a further 472,229 in Afar region19. In 2008 a pilot pastoral safety net programme was launched
in selected woredas of Afar, Somali, Oromiya and SNNP regions20.




16
   Government of Ethiopia. Productive Safety Net Programme Programme Implementation Manuel. Addis
Ababa, July 2006, p 1
17
   Ibid p 1
18
   Food Security Programme Department. Productive Safety Net Programme Logical Framework Report.
Addis Ababa, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, December 2007, pp1-2
19
  The programme in Afar region only provides direct support, acknowledging the need to
identify appropriate mechanisms for intervention in pastoral areas
20
  Actual beneficiary numbers in each year were often higher with regions using the contingency budget to
support additional households.

                                                   44
     2. Programme Objectives

As clearly stipulated in the APL II PAD and PSNP Programme Implementation Manual (2006),
the development objective of the PSNP is to contribute to reducing household vulnerability and
improving resilience to shocks. This will be achieved through reform of the humanitarian
emergency system to a development-oriented program which provides timely, predictable and
adequate transfers to beneficiary households. This allows for an effective consumption-smoothing
and avoidance of asset-depletion; creates productive and sustainable community assets;
contributes to large-scale rehabilitation of severely degraded areas; stimulates local markets
through demand linkages; and establishes more effective responses to drought shocks to avoid
increasing destitution among affected households.

     3. Programme Scale and Coverage

PSNP coverage has risen from 4.5 million beneficiaries in 2005 to its current 2009 coverage of
7.6 million. Initially launched in 192 woredas, the program currently reaches 292 chronically
food insecure woredas in 8 of the country's 10 regions. This is equivalent to roughly 10% of the
total population in just over 40% of woredas.

Table 1: Number of Woredas and Beneficiaries assisted by PSNP21
            2007                      2008                                    2009
            Woredas      Benefic-     Woredas        Benefic-                 Woredas        Benefic-
                         iaries                      iaries                                  iaries
Amhara      62           2,519,829    64             2,519,829                64             2,519,829

Oromiya         62              1,378,876      71             1,378,876       78             1,438,134

SNNP            58              1,298,981      79             1,298,981       79             1,459,160

Tigray          31              1,453,707      31             1,453,707       31             1,453,707

Dire Dawa       1               52,614         1              52,614          1              52,614
Harari          1               16,136         1              16,136          1              16,136
Afar            29              472,229        29             472,229         32             472,229
Somali          0               0              6              162,671         6              162,671
TOTAL           244             7,192,372      282            7,355,043       292            7,574,480

     4. Project Performance by Component

     4.1 Safety Net Grants
Labour-intensive public works (PW) provide grants to households whose adults participate in
public works sub-projects. Sub-projects to be undertaken are determined locally by the
beneficiary communities through an annual, participatory planning process that focuses on
integrated watershed management. Since the most appropriate time for undertaking public works
is during agricultural slack season, which occurs in general between January and June in Ethiopia,


21
  Source: Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (now Food Security Coordination Directorate)
Annual Plans 2007-2009. As these numbers are based on plans, they do not include information on the
number of beneficiaries covered through contingency resources.

                                                    45
most public works and payments were scheduled during this period, although some works, such
as afforestation, will continue through August. This timing is also beneficial to households by
ensuring that the bulk of transfers are provided to them before the "hungry" season starts (around
June). The timing of PW aims for households to have the resources available when they are
needed, as well as works to be undertaken at the most appropriate time in terms of weather
conditions and when labor demand from alternative agricultural activities is at its lowest.

Table 2: Data on Cash Food Split
  100%
   90%
   80%
   70%
   60%
   50%
   40%
   30%
   20%
   10%
    0%
              Plan           Actual          Plan            Actual          Plan          Actual

                      2007                            2008                          2009

                             Cash         Food         Overall trend:food to cash


It should be noted that pastoral woredas in Afar and Borena are all food woredas that receive 9
months of support, which adds quite a bit to the overall food resource requirement of the program.
In addition, there were slightly more pastoral woredas added under the pastoral pilot in 2009
compared to 2008. Additionally, it is important to note that the pastoral pilot began in 2008. The
difference between the planned and actual in 2009 is also related to the switch of 22 woredas in
SNNPR from a cash-food split to all cash.

The erosion of the purchasing power in 2007, 2008 and 2009 led more woredas to request a
switch to food. However, because of a short-fall in food resources in the Programme, the
Government provided cash transfers when prices were low instead of engaging in a larger local or
international food purchase. In 2009, the Government, for the first time, used the cash-food split
as a risk management tool, which meant that , it provided ALL woredas with three months cash
and then three months food transfers to secure the protective function of the transfers. This was
designed in response to the rapid food prices rises that had occurred the year before in the months
leading up to the harvest, i.e. from May onwards. Roughly 6.65 million people received food
transfers, often combined with cash transfers.

A major focus of APL II was on improving the quality and environmental impact of the public
works activities. In order to achieve this, the Government established Public Works Focal Teams
in the Natural Resources Department of the Bureaus of Agriculture and Rural Development
(BOARD) in each implementing Region as well as at federal level in the Natural Resources
Management Directorate of Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD). These
teams were resourced and charged with the responsibility for technical planning, oversight and
back-stopping woredas in the implementation of appropriate, high-quality Public Works sub-



                                                 46
         projects. This will also serve to strengthen implementation of the Environmental and Social
         Management Framework, which fell largely within their remit.

Table 3: Major public works outputs, 2007-2009
Sub-projects                            Unit              2007            2008           2009            Total
1              Soil and Water Conservation
               Land rehabilitated through
               Area Closure                  hectares     47,154          25,323         94,673          167,150
               Soil Embankment
               Construction                  km           33,285          21,279         36,890          91,454
               Stone Embankment
               Construction                  km           38,190      54,669      91,871      184,730
               Seedling production           Number       301,778,600 887,990,000 132,169,420 1,321,938,020
               Seedling planting             Number       12,883,657 852,480,000 17,958,043 883,321,700
               Nursery site establishment
               and management                Number       285             419            410             1,114
2              Water Supply
               Pond Construction or
               rehabilitation                Number       88,936          31,594         13,397          133,927
               Spring development            Number       598             1,537          1,549           3,684
               Hand-dug Well
               Construction                  Number       491                            771             1,262
               Small-scale irrigation canal
               contr. Or rehab.              km           2,679           712            2,355           5,746
3              Social Services
               School construction ,
               expansion or repair           Number       340             1,291          446             2,077
               Health post construction      Number       71              56             105             232
4              Community Roads
               Roads construction            km           8,323           8,683          6,730           23,736
               Roads maintenance             km           20,458          12,120         9,839           42,417

         Two budget lines for capital inputs and administrative/management costs were allocated to
         woredas alongside the financing for the unskilled labor costs (i.e. the transfers to households for
         public works). Furthermore, under APL II financing for Public Works was transferred from
         Federal levels to Regions and woredas before the start of the PSNP implementation season, to
         ensure that woredas had the funds to procure tools and materials and start activities in a timely
         way. "Info-techical notes" or technical guidelines and work-norms were developed by MOARD
         for different types of labor-intensive Public Worksand made available to PSNP implementers.

         During APL II the PSNP planning cycle was aligned with the annual Government financial and
         planning calendar at each level. Moreover, APL I conducted the annual Public Works Review,
         this was scaled up to become a key part of monitoring the implementation of public works on a
         semi-annual basis. The reviews provided an opportunity for inter-regional learning and sharing of
         best practice.

         Direct support (DS) provided grants to households who are labor-poor and cannot undertake
         public works. Beneficiaries included, but were not limited to, orphans, pregnant and lactating
         mothers, elderly households, other labor-poor, high risk households with sick individuals (such as
         people living with HIV/AIDS), and the majority of female-headed households with young

                                                          47
children and no other available adult labor. During the interim period while work was ongoing in
design of safety nets appropriate to pastoral communities, payments to the chronically food
insecure woredas in pastoral areas in Afar were also made via Direct Support.

Table 4: Annual Direct Support Participants as a Percent of PSNP Population by Region
                    2007          2008            2009               2009 DS as a %
                                                                     of Total
   Amhara           272,701       271,880         282,435            11%
   Oromiya          214,451       214,629         226,201            15%
   SNNP             244,327       244,010         299,853            20%
   Tigray           276,204       305,278         162,559            11%
   Dire Dawa        7,892         7,895           7,895              15%
   Harari           1,675         1,598           2,073              12%
   TOTAL            1,017,250     1,045,290       1,615,916          21%

Operational modalities for the implementation of the DS Component were strengthened during
APL II, incorporating lessons learned from the first phase. Implementation guidelines were
further clarified and/or strengthened in regard to the types and levels of support for female-
headed households, definition of work norms taking gender considerations into account, the use
of capital and administrative/management budgets to support DS beneficiary participation in
and/or contribution to community activities, including training to increase their future
productivity, and monitoring of DS activities. Under APL II, a unified beneficiary list integrating
public works beneficiaries and direct support beneficiaries was adopted. Capacity at woreda level
was strengthened through the provision of training, back-stopping and technical support.
Opportunities for strengthening linkages with other ongoing programs, particularly in the delivery
of training to DS beneficiaries (i.e. literacy classes; child nutrition/growth classes, awareness
campaigns for HIV/ AIDS) were also focus areas.

     4.2 Institutional Support
This component supported institutional strengthening activities, including related management
costs, during the APL II implementation period. These costs were covered from different funding
sources. Apart from the program budget, there were additional financing contributions from
different donors, e.g. DFID managed a technical assistance call-down facility, CIDA paid directly
for TAs, while CIDA, DFID, and Irish Aid provided funds through a multi donor trust fund
managed by the World Bank. Activities supported through this component included:

Program management costs and capacity building at community level to strengthen beneficiary
identification and local level planning; at woreda and regional level to improve financial
management and procurement capacity, and at all levels to improve technical supervision of
public works to ensure that sub-projects are designed and implemented appropriately.

Monitoring and evaluation focused on the implementation of the monitoring framework designed
under APL I and included additional instruments such as the Rapid Response Mechanism and
Information Centre which are critical to ensuring smooth program implementation. Among
others it focused on improving monitoring of public works through the scaling up of the annual
Public Works Review. It also financed the impact evaluation survey based on the baseline survey
implemented under APL I, social assessment to ensure proper treatment of social factors that
affect the implementation, quality, effectiveness and impact of safety net activities, and
beneficiary assessments to assess beneficiary satisfaction with safety net interventions. Strategic

                                                48
training activities to further strengthen capacity for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting were
implemented at all levels.

Transparency and accountability measures were put in place that ensure widespread
understanding of program objectives, procedures, and implementation progress among key
stakeholders, both domestic and international. This included development of material on program
objectives and procedures suitable for communication at community level; beneficiary
assessments, and the publication of critical program information at federal level through various
media, etc.

The Institutional Support component also financed several studies and pilots that were included
as triggers for APL III. These defined the supporting interventions necessary to promote
graduation and determine how they should be appropriately integrated with the PSNP.

      4.3 Integrated Risk Financing
While Component 1 (Safety Net Grants) focused on the chronically food insecure, Component 3
(Integrated Risk Financing) sought to provide timely resources for transient food insecure
households in response to shocks within existing program areas. This component was seen as
central to the sustainability of the overall PSNP by providing an early response which could more
effectively prevent household asset depletion and prevent increased levels of destitution. Given
that the required volume and proposed use of resources is contingent on the size and nature of a
specific drought event, this component aimed to develop the Livelihood Protection Cost Index ­ a
rainfall based index utilizing 30 years of rainfall data in Ethiopia, in order to eventually trigger
and scale disbursements. While it was envisaged that the index will, in due course, be the
principal instrument to be used for triggering financing for this component, it was agreed that
alternative methodologies may also be used if they can ensure a timely, objective, and transparent
response. Integrated risk financing was channelled to woredas using existing distribution systems
established under the PSNP according to pre-established contingency plans.

Table 6: Utilization of Drought Risk Financing Mechanism by Year
                                    2008               2009                         Total
# of beneficiaries incorporated     4.43               6.42                         10.85
under DRF
# of additional beneficiary            9.2                    12.84                 22.04
months of PSNP support
(millions)


    5. Outcomes and Impact

Recent independent impact evaluations, together with a series of qualitative studies, show that the
PSNP is having a positive impact on the livelihoods of households, and is significantly enhancing
community level infrastructure and contributing to environmental transformation. The positive
impact has been demonstrated in crisis and non crisis periods. These same studies highlight, that
the impact of the PSNP is much more significant and effective and appears across a wider range
of indicators when households receive more support from the Program. The impact of the PSNP
is measured against the outcome indicators for APL II, namely reported food security and asset
protection, and a range of other indicators at household and community-levels.

The impact at household level was measured using the following indicators:

                                                49
(a) Improved Food security: The impact evaluation found that participation in the PSNP
    significantly improved household food security, as measured by changes in the self-reported
    household food gap. The impact of the PSNP on food security was found to be larger when
    transfers were predictable and of a higher value22. Households that received these transfers
    and inputs from the household asset building program experienced an improvement in food
    security by 0.81 months (or 25 days).
(b) Improved Nutrition : Moreover, participation in the PSNP increased caloric acquisition by
    19.2 percent among households that received regular, higher value transfers as compared with
    non-beneficiary households23.
(c) Increased Asset creation and protection: The PSNP is having a significant impact on asset
    accumulation24. The growth rate in livestock holdings among PSNP beneficiaries was 28.1
    percent faster than among non-beneficiaries. This is supported by evidence from other
    surveys that shows that PSNP beneficiaries are using part of their cash transfers to invest in
    farming inputs and livestock. These findings also hold true during times of crises, when the
    PSNP has proven to be effective at helping households avoid distress sales of assets.
(d) Increased Utilization of education and health services: PSNP beneficiaries have increased
    their use of social services. In 2006, 46.1 percent of PSNP beneficiary households reported
    that they used health facilities that year to a greater extent as compared with the year before
    and 76 percent attributed this to the PSNP. In 2008, 26.7 percent of households reported
    increased use of health facilities over 2007 and 47 percent attributed this increase to the
    PSNP. This information, together with reports that PSNP beneficiaries use some of their cash
    transfers to invest in health and education, suggests that the Program is having a positive
    impact on human capital accumulation.
(e) Improved Agricultural productivity: The PSNP is enabling households to take risks that
    improve household productivity. A major finding of the impact evaluation was a synergy
    between the OFSP and PSNP. While OFSP has only a marginal impact on agricultural
    productivity when implemented alone, when combined with the PSNP the results showed a
    38 percent increase in maize yields. This suggests that by allowing households to focus on
    long-term investments and providing more regular cash flow, the PSNP is a critical element
    of a strategy to effectively improve agricultural productivity.

A growing body of evidence shows that the PSNP is having a significant positive impact at
community level:

       (i)      Increased wood and vegetation cover: The Public Works Impact Assessment
                carried out in 2009 found that soil and water conservation activities have
                significantly increased wood and herbaceous vegetation cover.

       (ii)     Increased domestic water supply through increases in spring water, groundwater
                levels and increased infiltration. The construction of soil and water conservation
                structures within the closed areas has reduced surface runoff, increased infiltration
                and raised groundwater levels, thereby enhancing spring yields and increasing


22
   Higher value is defined as receipt of transfers worth at least 900 ETB between 2006 and 2008.
23
   "Non-beneficiary households" refers to a control group established using matching methods.
24
   The term `implemented as designed' refers to when PSNP beneficiaries receive a significant proportion
of their entitlement, that is, at least 900 ETB between 2006 and 2008, and the transfers arrive on time at
regular intervals. This is the basic design of the PSNP. The impact evaluation shows that PSNP is not
implemented in this way in all areas.

                                                    50
                 stream base-flows. In several communities, springs last longer into the dry season.
                 Additionally, the number of domestic water supplies has doubled.

      (iii)      Improved Livelihoods: There is evidence that these community-level benefits are
                 resulting in improved livelihoods. An estimated 34 percent of households surveyed
                 reported significant benefits from the closed areas that had increased the
                 availability of forage for livestock. Up to 87 percent of households reported that
                 family health had improved as a result of access to PSNP water supplies. It is
                 important to note that these benefits accrue to the community at large beyond the
                 immediate target group of the Program.

In conclusion, the overarching finding on program designed outcomes and impacts is that PSNP
there are significant positive benefits at household and community levels. The results of these
surveys, together with administrative data, show that the Program is being implemented
effectively in many areas. While the usual variation between Regions and woredas performance
exist in areas such as timeliness of transfers to beneficiaries and the technical quality of public
works these are being addressed through project implementation. .


    6. Financial Management Performance

The financial management of the PSNP has improved over time. In 2006, responsibility for
financial management was shifted from FSCB to MOFED. While capacity constraints within the
MOFED system initially resulted in delayed reporting and other weaknesses but have improved
over times.. In particular, the quality and timeliness of financial reports has improved. In terms of
external audits, the first year external audit by the national audit agency was delayed because of
agency backlogs. All audits of the PSNP to date have been qualified, citing miscoding of
expenditure and poor record keeping. However, this has been attributed to systemic capacity
constraints rather and the audits have found no evidence of systematic corruption.

To address the delays in the external audit, the PSNP adopted a system of external "roving
audits" to provide feedback on financial management performance in advance of the annual
external audit. The roving audit found some instances of weak performance (e.g., purchase of
ineligible items, lack of approval of payrolls) but no indication of systematic corruption. In 2009,
the audit function was expanded to consider food resources as well, thereby applying the same
accountability criteria to both cash and food resources.

    7. Project Costs and Financing

 (A) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                             Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
              Components                                     Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                millions)
1. Component 1: Safety Net
   Grants
   A. Sub-Component Public                   353.27
      Works
   B. Sub-Component ­ Direct                 210.82
      Support


                                                  51
         Contingencies for Food            139.75
         and Cash Transfers
         Capital and                       132.67
         Administrative Budgets
         Sub-Total                         838.50               983.9               117%
2. Drought Risk Financing                   25.00                50.5               202%
3. Institutional Support                    47.29                41.7               88%
             Total Baseline Cost           909.30
Physical Contingencies                       3.00
Price Contingencies                          3.00
              Total Project Costs          915.30              1,076.0              118%

        (b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Opening Balance (carry-over of
                                                       56.5         81.0           143%
resources from PSNP I)
Government of Ethiopia                                 2.0          1.1                      55%
 International Development
                                                       175.0        207.9
Association (IDA) ­ Grant                                                                  119%
Department for International                                                                72%
                                                       194.6        139.4
Development (DFID)
European Commission                                    195.6        160.3                   82%
Irish Aid (DCI)                                        18.0         47.7                   265%
United States Agency for                                                                   827%
                                                       38.0         314.2
International Development (USAID)
CIDA                                                   14.4         84.7                   607%
World Food Program                                     26.6         25.1                    94%
Swedish International Development
                                                                    29.5
Agency (SIDA)                                                                                 n.a.
Embassy of the Kingdom of the
                                                                    31.3
Netherlands (EKN)                                                                             n.a
Global Facility for Disaster Reduction
                                                                    0.3
and Recovery                                                                                  n.a
Closing Balance/Financing Gap or
                                                       194.6        -49.2          n.a.
Surplus
Total                                                  915.3        1,076.2        118%

    8. Major Factors affecting project performance

The PSNP Programme represents a massive and remarkable undertaking in terms of the scope of
its coverage, the number of implementing and donor partners and the level of coordination
required at every level and between every stakeholder. The coordination of the PSNP program by
the Government and its partners is in itself is an achievement worth noting. The speed at which
administrative structures were set-up and the Programme rolled-out in ways which ensured a
reasonable standard of programme operation even in the first year is reflective of this fact. The

                                               52
Programme implementation teams and decision makers have demonstrated a high willingness and
openness to assessing and addressing challenges and adjusting the design and implementation
course. This has enabled programme adjustments and has ensured improvements in programme
implementation throughout the life of the program to date. The Government and partner teams are
in agreement that the implementation issues that arise do so because of capacity constraints.
These challenges are summarized and presented below:

     8.1 Efficiency
General Management
 On a number of topics (for example ESMF, targeting and use of the contingency), there has
   been a significant gap between understanding at the federal level and actual implementation
   in the woreda.

Staffing:
  The Mid-Term Review highlighted the mostly positive impact of Business Process Re-
     engineering on the staffing profile of MoARD and other agencies engaged in PSNP
     implementation.
  There are significant numbers of contract staff engaged in programme implementation due to
     human resource capacity constraints within the government. Furthermore management
     support is provided through a range of task teams and the donor group (in particular the
     Donor Coordination Team). While the original programme design sought to make use of
     existing government structures rather than making use of a Programme Implementation Unit;
     capacity constraints and limited number of staff within the Government structures required
     increases in short term capacity increases in staff. The employment of contract staff is one of
     the few tools available to the programme to ensure adequate staffing. Furthermore, it is
     hoped that the need to operate the PSNP at its current scale will be viewed as consistent with
     the program objectives in the longer term. The level of dependence currently on contract
     staff and how their services are utilized and managed should be reviewed to ensure that the
     principle of core government structure management and oversight is maintained. Contract
     staff use should be to bolster, rather than substitute core government capacity.

Public Works:
 The majority of Public Works are meeting technical standards. In July 2008, the NRMD
    formally re-asssumed responsibility for PSNP public works management and coordination.
    However, capacity constraints prevented the establishment of a fully functioning federal
    PWCU, and the regional PWFUs remain considerably below capacity.
 Challenges remain in closing the gap between public works plans and achievements. In
    2008, according to the Public Works Review 100% of soil and water conservation projects
    met the standards to at least a minimum acceptable level, and 87% of other projects. The
    areas of concern in terms of technical quality are rural roads, water and potable water
    projects. Also of concern are the availability of resources for operation and maintenance for
    potable water and small scale irrigation projects. Quality of PWs such as roads, water and
    irrigation systems also requires significant oversight to ensure that these works are
    sustainable. .

Training:
 Better linkages and follow-up are needed in the training provided under the PSNP program.
    There is a need for closer linkages between training design and monitoring of results of
    training and its application by trainees.



                                                53
Markets:
 The PSNP is expected to have positive impacts on markets (and there should be management
  strategies in place to avoid any negative impacts), while APL II had limited mechanisms in
  place to enable market monitoring or to assess impacts on markets, the ongoing Program
  would take this into account.

Monitoring and Evaluation:
 Reporting formats were largely adhered to, however the quality of monitoring reports and the
  timeliness of report submission remained challenges. Furthermore, accurate and regular
  consolidation and analysis of monitoring information is also weak. Conversely there was
  limited feedback on reports submitted by Government. These issues highlight capacity
  constraints at different levels in the system.
 At present much of the focus of the monitoring and evaluation system is about reporting
  upwards through levels of government. There needs to a larger effort on fostering meaningful
  discussion concerning the utilisation of monitoring or evaluation information at woreda level.
 Of particular concern has been the capacity of data collection and evaluation that impacts the
  quality of data for public works. The implementation and performance of monitoring and
  evaluation is weak between the woreda to the regional to the federal level. Monitoring and
  evaluation of public works is the mandate of the regional PWFUs, however the works are at
  the Woreda level and at the regional level the capacity to assume this role is weak this is, to a
  large extent, a reflection of some of the institutional constraints at federal and regional level
  highlighted above. It may also suggest a lack of capacity at woreda level.
 The PSNP does aim to contribute to the reduction in malnutrition of children under five (with
  an indicator at super-goal level). These outcomes have not been captured in APLII and would
  need to be incorporated in regular evaluation exercises or specific studies related to ongoing
  APLIII phase of the PSNP programme.
 Monitoring of food within the PSNP programme, and consolidated of data within the FSPD
  concerning food programming in woredas which also receive NGO support would need to be
  strengthened in the APLIII.

        8.2 Effectiveness
Transfers:
 Several implementation issues require fine tuning during the next phase of the PSNP
   program, these include the timely transfers of food and cash; the composition of transfers in
   cash rather than food; and receipt of less than full transfers.
 Although timeliness of transfers has improved significantly and is approaching performance
   targets, nearly 60% of beneficiaries state that they receive transfers but do not receive their
   transfers on time and are unable to plan ahead. As a result only 27% feel that PSNP transfers
   enable them to plan ahead. Furthermore, there are who are beneficiaries are not receiving
   the transfer they would choose; in part because a greater proportion of the Programme is
   being provided in cash despite the severe erosion in purchasing power of cash transfers.
 Both the Panel Survey and the FTAP Survey indicate that there are beneficiaries who report
   that they do not receive their transfers in full. A number of factors could cause this
   (misunderstanding of entitlement, payments forfeited due to failure to complete public works,
   misappropriation of funds by woreda staff or kebele officials).25


25
     Annual and roving audits have not uncovered any misappropriation of fund




                                                    54
Public Works
 The majority of public works are meeting technical standards. In 2008, according to the
   Public Works Review 100% of soil and water conservation projects met the standards to at
   least a minimum acceptable level, and 87% of other projects. The major areas of concern in
   terms of technical quality are rural roads, water and potable water projects. Also of concern
   are the availability of resources for operation and maintenance for potable water and small
   scale irrigation projects.

Linkages
 During APL II links between the PSNP and the emergency system were in transition. As a
   result there have been areas where there has been a lack of coordination and smooth transition
   which increased the likelihood that vulnerable people have not been assisted in a timely
   manner (and may in some cases have fallen through the gaps). The program implementation
   team recognizes that such gaps must be addressed because the program must adequately
   address the needs of vulnerable people whether they are current PSNP beneficiaries or not.
   Timely addressing of needs would assist in reducing the programme cost for the future.
 There have been significant improvements in the concentration of both PSNP and OFSP
   resources on target households. Full coverage of all PSNP beneficiaries remains to be
   completed for household assets The Government considers building of household assets as
   the most likely path to graduation.

    9. Lessons Learned
    The PSNP has evidence based results that show that it has stabilized livelihoods, created
    productive assets, improved natural resource management and improved food security in
    households. The Program has demonstrated the value of a shift away from a humanitarian
    response system to a more development oriented approach to addressing food gaps. There is
    evidence that livelihoods are stabilizing and food insecurity is being reduced among
    beneficiary households. There is also evidence that public works are creating productive
    assets and improving the natural resource base in treated areas.
    The improvements to the OFSP and FSP identified elsewhere, demonstrate a viable safety net,
    however graduation to date out of the program has been below Government expectations.
    This raises the question of whether all chronically food insecure households can be graduated
    quickly out of the program or whether the process takes a longer time to achieve with a
    recognition that there will be a subset of households in the future that will continue to need
    support or will come in and out of needing support. It is necessary to explore the strategies
    that would need to be put in place that address the need for a permanent Safety Net and
    strategies that provide a range of pathways to graduation for those households which achieve
    sustainable food security. The role of the PSNP should grow into a institutionalized Safety
    Net that reduces risks to food security and disasters and which, because of its focus on
    securing the most vulnerable, enables a wider set of integrated interventions and strategies on
    job creation, the wider economy and education to achieve sustainable paths to sustainable
    incomes and development.
    Efforts need to be made to better understand through the program evaluations and
    assessments, the choices made by the most vulnerable and their reluctance to graduate out of
    the program. It may be possible that this lack of confidences reflects the fact that household
    asset building and security takes time and the economic fragility of the most vulnerable
    exposes them to a high level of risk and at the slightest of climatic or economic shocks such
    as high levels of inflations which can overturn and wipe out the gains they have made in a
    previous season.



                                               55
   To mitigate some of the risks associated with graduation from PSNP a phased approach to
   graduation should be explored, by which households which are making progress towards
   graduation still receive some support but for a reduced number of months. This has already
   been agreed during the October 2008 Mid-Term Review and could be linked with the
   ongoing `Variable levels of support' pilot.
   It is possible to roll-out complex programmes in environment's where capacity is limited, but
   it requires:
        o A significant investment in training (not only once of, but repeated trainings on the
            same topics).
        o An ability and willingness to monitor programme implementation and be flexible to
            make adjustments when needed.
   Though unavoidable overall the PSNP would have benefited from a more systematic capacity
   building approach. Due to the rapid roll-out of the Programme, at the time of a food crisis
   capacity building efforts tended to be reactive (computers provided in the second or third year
   of the programme rather than at the programme start).
    There is a need to balance out tasks for policy making between the different levels of
   Government. For example the concept of food insecurity is one example where those at the
   local level who are responsible for targeting find it easier to assess depth of need or lack of
   assets.
   The strongest implementation comes when key stakeholders have a shared understanding of
   programme goals and principles and this in part accounts for differences in the quality of
   implementation from woreda to woreda. Ensuring ownership and shared understanding
   political and administrative stakeholders as well as technicians is important. Further work in
   defining key principles may better enable the development of this shared understanding.
   The design of the Risk Management component going forward in the next phase would need
   to ensure strong links with the activities and responsibilities of the Early Warning and
   Response Directorate and coherence with the revised National Disaster Policy.
   Experience from APL II demonstrates that mechanisms to ensure ongoing operation and
   maintenance of public works are a critical aspect to the sustainability of public works. All
   public works should have defined "owners" after completion. These `owners' are those who
   have rights of use, and therefore the obligation to maintain and manage assets. In many
   cases, user rights arrangements will involve the creation of group by-laws governing access,
   and management and responsibility obligations. They may also require the establishment of a
   system to collect user fees. These user rights and maintenance responsibilities need to be
   defined during the planning process to establish a sense of ownership by the benefiting
   community or group. Ensuring a common understanding between community asset `owners'
   and Woreda government service providers on what further support `owners' can expect to
   receive, once the asset has been handed over, is critical. A Regional Technical Coordinating
   Committee is responsible for ensuring budget provisions for the operation and maintenance
   of new infrastructure in all sectors including health and education; and (iii) ensuring the
   active participation and technical inputs of the relevant line bureaus and offices in the
   implementation and monitoring of the PW program.
   Going forward, programme size and cost are likely to be pushed higher by the following
   factors: i) formal inclusion of the chronic caseload currently covered using the PSNP
   contingency, ii) potential increases in the number of chronically food insecure households as
   a result of drought or food price inflation, iii) population growth, iv) the risk financing
   initiative and v) expansion of the programme fully into pastoral areas. Furthermore, the focus
   on improving the overall FSP is likely to create more demands on donor and Government
   financing. A realistic review of what is affordable needs to be undertaken, with a clear


                                               56
   determination of what cannot be covered so that expectations are not raised or to enable other
   sources of financing to be secured.
   The decision by MOLSA to develop a national action plan for Social Protection (mentioned
   in the October 2008 Mid Term Review) provides an opportunity to develop a long-term
   vision for safety net programming in Ethiopia. MoARD will engage in the debate to ensure
   that the PSNP is fully represented in the policy especially for direct support, and that there is
   a coherent overall strategic vision which supports the needs of different groups, avoiding
   overlaps but minimizing gaps.




                                                57
Annex 7. Comments of Borrower, Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to the discussions with key government stakeholders during the ICR mission,
written comments were received from the DRMFSS. As overall coordinator of the
program DRMFSS made some editorial comments on the draft text of the ICR. These
comments were incorporated in the final version of the ICR. In addition DRMFSS
expressed disagreement with the moderately satisfactory rating for the performance of the
implementing agencies. In view of DRMFSS the program represents a massive
undertaking in terms of scope and coverage as well as input at all administrative levels of
the Government staff. Government program implementation teams and decision makers
have demonstrated high willingness and openness to assessing and addressing challenges
during implementation. Over the course of APLII the program has seen a year on year
improvement in the implementation of the program, DRMFSS is therefore of the opinion
that the implementing Agencies have performed satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers and stakeholders

All main donors were consulted during the ICR mission and written comments on the
draft ICR were received from Irish Aid, CIDA, Netherlands Embassy, DFID, USAID and
WFP. Overall the development partners found that the ICR was a well presented and
informative document that is effective in capturing APL II results, the implementation
experience and lessons learned.

Irish Aid indicated that while the Lessons Learned section of the document could be
expanded, in combination with the excellent 2010 "Designing and Implementing a Rural
Safety Net in a Low Income Setting; Lessons Learned from Ethiopia's PSNP 2005-09",
the two documents combined are a really useful reference set regarding the achievements
and challenges of the programme to date. CIDA pointed out that donor engagement in
their view was a key success factor and also highlighted that no reference was made to
the involvement of NGOs in the implementation of the program. It also wanted the ICR
to mention the financial support of CIDA and EC for technical assistance to the federal
level implementing partners as well as the challenges with the implementation of full
family targeting. CIDA also provided a detailed set of editing comments. The Embassy of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands (EKN) indicated that they are in agreement with the
content of the report and specifically supported the low rating for the risk associated with
the program. EKN further found the lessons learned section useful and indicated that the
report makes a strong case for continuation of the program. DFID noted that most key
information related to APLII was captured in the report but suggested that in the lessons
learned section the ICR could reflect more on (i) the positive impact on program
implementation of the establishment technical committees and task forces at the local
level; (ii) the improvements in timeliness of transfers due to the introduction of the
automated payroll and hiring of additional accountants and cashiers; (iii) the
establishment of the appeal system improved local accountability and (iv) the proactive
engagement of the Donor Working Group to involve high level decisions makers when

                                            58
required. USAID described the report as a solid piece of reporting that will be a useful
reference in future. Especially the narrative on the additional benefits of the PSNP was
found useful. It pointed out that the explanatory text for indicator one could be confusing
for the less informed reader and suggested reformulation. WFP noted that as PSNP PW
projects are significantly contributing to climate change adaptation and mitigation
through degraded land rehabilitation, biodiversity improvements and natural resources
and environmental management etc. WFP therefore recommended strengthening the
report by reflecting more on the PW outcomes in relation to climate change. All above
comments were taken into consideration in the final version of the document.




                                            59
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Amha W. Assessment of the credit component of Government financed household food
security package program.Draft report. Addis Ababa, Government of Ethiopia, 2008.

Anderson K, and W. Masters. Distortions to Agricultural Incentives in Africa,
Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2009.

Behnke R et al. Piloting the PSNP in pastoral areas of Ethiopia. Revised program
proposal. Addis Ababa: Food Security Coordination Bureau, 2007.

Campbell I. Presentation on the PSNP Public Works for World Bank HD learning week,
PowerPoint Presentation. Washington, D.C: World Bank, 2008.

Campbell, I. Presentation to donors on new PW arrangements. Mimeo, 2008.

Campbell White A et al. Study for Mainstreaming HIV and AIDS into PSNP operation in
Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Food Security Coordination Directorate and PSNP Donor
Working Group, 2009.

Devereux S et al. Ethiopia's Productive Safety Net Program: 2008 Assessment Report.
Brighton and London: Institute of Development Studies and Overseas Development
Institute, 2008.

Dorosh P, and L. Subran. Food Markets and Food Price Inflation in Ethiopia.
Washington, D.C. and Rome: World Bank and World Food Program, 2007.

DFID. Fiduciary risk assessment in the PSNP, 2008.

Evers B, et al. Contextual Gender Analytical Study of the Ethiopia Productive Safety Nets
Program. Addis Ababa: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, 2008.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Government report on implementation of the
PSNP Draft. Jan 2009.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (2007) Food Security Program: Progress made
in building assets of food insecure households, FSCB, MoARD, Addis Ababa, July, 2007.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. The new coalition for food security in
Ethiopia: Food Security Program: Policy Document & Monitoring and Evaluation Plan,
May 200, Food Security Coordination Bureau: Addis Ababa)

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Ethiopia: Building on Progress: A Plan for
Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP). Addis Ababa:
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia,2006a
.

                                           60
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. The New Coalition for Food Security in
Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, 2006b.

Food Security Coordination Bureau. PSNP Graduation Guidance Note. Addis Ababa,
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, 2007.

Food Security Coordination Directorate. EFY 2002 PSNP Annual Plan. Addis Ababa:
Food Security Coordination Bureau, 2009a.

Food Security Coordination Directorate. Report to the October 2008 PSNP Mid-Term
Review Mission. Addis Ababa: Food Security Coordination Directorate, 2008.

Gill G. The Productive Safety Net Programme: Institutional Lessons Learned. A Report
to DFID-Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: DFID-Ethiopia, 2006.

Hess U, and W. Wiseman. Drought risk financing paper. Washington, D.C. and Rome:
World Bank and World Food Program, 2006.

IFPRI/CSA. Ethiopia Food Security Program: Report on the 2008 Survey. Washington,
D.C. and Addis Ababa: IFPRI and Government of Ethiopia, 2009a.
IFPRI/CSA. Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Program Impact Assessment. Washington,
D.C. and Addis Ababa: IFPRI and Government of Ethiopia, 2009b.

IFPRI/CSA: A Further Analysis of the 2006 Productive Safety Nets Program Baseline
Survey. Washington, D.C. and Addis Ababa: IFPRI and Government of Ethiopia, 2007.

IFPRI/CSA. Ethiopia Food Security Program: Report on the 2006 Survey. Washington,
D.C. and Addis Ababa: IFPRI and Government of Ethiopia, 2006.

IDL group. Building consensus for social protection: Insights from Ethiopia's PSNP.
London: UK Department for International Development, 2008.

Kassie M et al. Economics of Soil Conservation Adoption in High-Rainfall Areas of the
Ethiopian Highlands. Environment for Development Discussion Paper Series, 2008.

Kassie M. et al. Estimating Returns to Soil Conservation Adoption in the Northern
Ethiopian Highlands. Addis Ababa: Environmental Economics Policy Forum for
Ethiopia, 2007.

M.A Consulting Group. Impact Assessment Study Report for PW Component of the PSNP
in Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Productive Safety Net Programme,
Revised Programme Implementation Manual. Draft. Addis Ababa: Government of
Ethiopia, 2010.



                                          61
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Review of the PSNP. Addis Ababa:
Government of Ethiopia, 2009a.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Review of the Other Food Security
Program. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009b.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Food Security Program 2010­2014.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009c.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Productive Safety Net Program 2010­
2014. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009d.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Household Asset Building Program
2010­2014. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009e.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 2008 1st PSNP Public Works Review.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2008a.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 2008 2nd PSNP Public Works Review.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2008b.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Drought Risk Financing Manual. Addis
Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2008c.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 2007 1st PSNP Public Works Review.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2007a.
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 2007 2nd PSNP Public Works Review.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2007b.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Joint Review and Support Mission Aide-
Memoire of PSNP APL II, May 2007. Addis Ababa: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development, 2007c
.
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Productive Safety Net Program,
Program Implementation Manual (PIM), July 2006. Addis Ababa: Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development, 2006a.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF); Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Productive Safety Net
Programme Phase II. Addis Ababa: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,
2006b.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 2006 PSNP Public Works Review.
Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2006c.




                                         62
Nyssen J et al., "Interdisciplinary on-site evaluation of stone bunds to control soil erosion
on cropland in Northern Ethiopia" Soil and Tillage Research, 2007, 94(1):151­163.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Study for mainstreaming HIV and AIDS into PSNP
operation in Ethiopia. Final Report. June 2009.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Background issues paper for the PSNP October 2008 Mid-
Term Review. Addis Ababa: PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008a.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Donor issues paper on contingency and response to shocks
for MTR. Addis Ababa: PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008b.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Donor issues paper on graduation for MTR Addis Ababa:
PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008c.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Donor issues paper on linkages for MTR Addis Ababa:
PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008d.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Donor issues paper on transfers for MTR Addis Ababa:
PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008e.

PSNP Donor Working Group. Issues paper from emergency group ­ MTR donor issues
paper Addis Ababa: PSNP Donor Working Group, 2008f.

Rashid S et al. Cereal markets and productive social safety net program (PSNP) in
Ethiopia, Policy Brief 4, Addis Ababa: UNECA, 2008.

Risner C. Final Report: PSNP, Harmonisation and Programme Implementation. Addis
Ababa: PSNP Donor Working Group, 2006.

Sandford J. Cash, Food, Payment and Risk: A Review of the Productive Safety Net
Programme. Addis Ababa: Save the Children UK, 2008.

Save the Children UK. "Impacts of HIV/AIDS on Livelihoods and Food Security in
Rural Ethiopia Summary Report", World Food Programme Vulnerability, Analysis and
Mapping (VAM) Unit, August, 2008.

Sharp K. et al. Targeting in the PSNP. London: Overseas Development Institute and
theIDLgroup, 2006.

Urban Institute and Birhan Research and Development Consultancy. The Ethiopia
Productive Safety Net Program, In the Financial Transparency and Accountability
Perception Survey. Washington and Addis Ababa, 2008.

WABEKBON Development Consultants PLC. Second Roving Appeals Audit of PSNP in
Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2009.

                                             63
WABEKBON Development Consultants PLC. Roving Appeals Audit of PSNP in
Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Government of Ethiopia, 2008.

WABEKBON Development Consultants PLC. Evaluation of the Direct Support
Component of the Productive Safety Net Programme. Addis Ababa: Government of
Ethiopia, 2007.

Wiseman W. Case study on Ethiopia's PSNP: Instruments to strengthen control and
accountability in social protection. PowerPoint Presentation. Washington, D.C.: World
Bank, 2008.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document for Phase Three of the Productive Safety Net
Program. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2009.

World Bank. Implementation Status Reports #1-7, 2007-2010. Washington, D.C.: World
Bank, 2010.

World Bank/GEF. Economic analysis of the Ethiopia Sustainable Land Management
Project (World Bank Project Appraisal Document Report No. 42927-ET). Washington,
D.C.: World Bank, 2008a.

World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy for the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia. Report No. 43051-ET, Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2008b.

World Bank. Post-procurement Review (& World Bank response report) (Washington,
D.C.: World Bank, 2008c.

World Bank. Explaining Sources of Food Price Inflation in Ethiopia. Just in Time Policy
Note. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2007

World Bank. APL I Implementation Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank,
2006a.

World Bank. PSNP APLII Concept Note Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2006b.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document for Phase Two of the Productive Safety Net
Program. Washington, D.C., World Bank, 2005a.

World Bank. Ethiopia: Risk and Vulnerability Assessment. Washington, D.C.: World
Bank, 2005b.




                                          64
Other internal program documents:

PSNP Aide Memoires, MTR, October 2008 and JRIS reports

PSNP Performance targets ­ May 2008

PSNP Annual Plans 2007-2010

PSNP Integrated Financial Reports (IFRs)

PSNP (2007-2009) Rapid Response Team reports. Mimeo.

PSNP (2007) Medium Term Expenditure Financing Framework.

PSNP (2007) PSNP logical framework report, December. Log frame Workshop Group.

PSNP (2008) Food Security Programme Review. Detailed Report for the Productive
Safety Net Programme Zero Draft. November 2008

Productive Safety Net Project-APL II: FM Implementation Completion Report input,
October 2010.

Overview of improvements in financial management system in first phase of PSNP,
March, 2010




                                           65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 37166R

        32°E                                             36°E                                                                           40°E                                                     44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ETHIOPIA
                                                                                            ERITREA                                                        R                                                                     PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NET
                                                                                                                                                                                         REP.                                         PROGRAM II




                                                                                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                                                                                          OF




                                                                                                                                                               d
                 ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                Axum
                                                                                                                             Adigrat                                                    YEMEN                                                   TOTAL PSNP BENEFICIARIES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Above 40,000
                                                                        Humera




                                                                                                                                                                    S
14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                   14°N                                                   30,001 ­ 40,000
                                                                                        T I G R AY




                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20,001 ­ 30,000




                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                               Mekele                                                                                                                         10,000 ­ 20,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Below 10,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              No beneficiaries

                                                                            Gonder                                                                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                           AMHARA                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEREDA BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                 Tana
                                                                                                                                                  A FA R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                          Debra                      Weldiya
                                                                         Bahir Dar
                                                                                          Tabor
                                                                                                                                                                    DJIBOUTI                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOURCE: Government of Ethiopia data courtesy of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the World Food Program.
                                                                                                                                    Dese


                SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        48°E

                                                                                   Debre
                                         BENSHANGUL                               Markos

10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10°N
                                                                                                                                                      DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                       Dire Dawa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                               Jijiga                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                    ADDIS                                                            Harer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                Gimbi                                              ABABA                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                   Nekemte                                                            Awash                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        ADDIS ABABA                                                                HARARI

                                                                                                                           Nazret
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOMALIA
                               Gambela                                                                                                                                          Degeh Bur              Aware
                                                 Gore                                      Welkite

                            GAMBELA                                                                                    Asela                                                                                                                                          Domo
                                                                          Jima
                                                                                     Hosaina                      O R O M I YA
                                                                Bonga
                                                                                                               Shashemene
                                                                                                                                           Goba                                             SOMALI
                                                                                               Awasa                      Dodola                                                                                                Warder
                                                                                            Sodo                                                                                                         Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                         Wendo
                                                                                                                                                                     Imi



6°N
                                                         SNNPR                 Arba                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6°N
                                                                              Minch


                                                                                                                               Negele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ferfer

                                                                                                     Yavello


                                                                                                                                                                    Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                    Odo
                                               Lake                                                     Mega
                                                                                                                                                                                            0    50          100   150        200 Kilometers
                                            Turkana
                                                                                                                 Moyale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INDIAN
               UGANDA                                                   KENYA                                                                                                               0           50           100                150 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCEAN
       32°E                                             36°E                                                                           40°E                                                     44°E                                                                                         48°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 2010
