COPY s c r n  vDocument of
FILE         Uue                 rThe World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1886-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
RWANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
June 24, 1976
This document has a restricted distributlon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Unit                  :       Rwandese Franc (RwF)
US$1                  :       RwF 92.84
RwF 1                 :       US$ 0.01
RwF 1,000             :       US$ 10.77
RwF 1,000,000                 US$10,771.22
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
BRD       =    Rwanda Development Bank
(Banque Rwandaise de Developpement)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Developpement
Economique (France)
DEG       =    Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW       =    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
UNIDO     =    United Nations Industrial Development
Organization
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A RWANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of US$4.0
mIllton on standard IDA terms to help finance the foreign exchange require-
ments of the Rwanda Development Bank (BRD) through June 1978.    The proceeds
of the credit would be relent to BRD for a period substantially in conformity
with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the sub-loans, but not
exceeding a period of 20 years in the case of tourism projects and 15 years
in the case of other loans or Investments, at an interest rate of 4 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Recent Economic Development and Prospects of
Rwanda" (No. 422a-RW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 24,
1974. An economic updating mission visited Rwanda in October 1975 and its
report is being completed. A summary of the mission's findings is set out
below. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With an average per capita income of about US$80, Rwanda is one of
the poorest countries in the world. It is included in the United Nations
List of the "25 least developed countries", and has also been designated
"most seriously affected" by recent economic developments.    The country
became independent in 1962.   It is lacking in both administrative and physi-
cal infrast rticture, and iiust overcome formiidable constraints to its devel-o p-
ment. Overwhelmingly a subsistence economy with only an embryonic modern
sector, it faces land shortages and a rapid growth in population. The de-
velopment of export-based agriculture is limited *by the priority of food
crop prodticuion and.Rwanda's inland posILion (1,700 km away from the near-
cst port at Mombasa),-whlle the potential for expansion of the industrial
sector is constrained by ;a lack of raw materials, mineral deposits and an
appropriately 'trained -labor-force.
4.        Despite these handicaps, the present Government, since Its ascent
to power in July 1973, has made perceptible progress in developing a strategy
to lift the economy from its present low level.- Some aspects of the country's
characteristi,s are favorable and it is ar0iind these that the Governount has
designed Its strategy.   The population has a certain unity, deriving from
similarities In customs, ways of life and standard-of living throughout the
country.   Income and wealth distribution are remarkably even.   There are
neither the remnants of a strong traditional hierarchy nor signs of signifi-
cant emerging urban-rural polarization. Moreover, the small size of the
country reduces the administrative difficulties and at the same time limits
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



serious regionalism. The country also has a natural asset in its relatively
fertile soil which, provided that the problem of erosion in Rwanda's hilly
terrain can be overcome, can give good yields for a variety of crops. To take
advantage of and preserve these admittedly modest assets, the Government has
recognized that its development policies must be built around a careftlly in-
tegrated and balanced strategy reaching the entire population. Althougih
obliged to pursue export crop development to earn foreign exchange and domes-
tic revenues, increases In food crop productivity are at the core of the
Government's proposed strategy.
5.        Pressure on land, combined with traditional cultivation methlods
that degrade and erode the soil, make food crop intensification the natIon's
first priority. The growth rate of the population is 2.8 percenL per year,
and 60 percent of the population Is less than 20 years old. At the saime time,
all good agricultural land is already occupied and only limited amounLs' of
marginal land remain available. Over the last two years the Government has
begun preparatory work on a rural development plan which would focus huture
efforts on food crop production at the level of the commune - the smaiLest
administrative unit comprising an average of 30,000 inhabitants. In doing so,
the Government has recognized that its approach must be directed towards the
farmers' needs, with careful integratlon at both the grass-roots and &cntral
levels. The emphasis on food crops would be linked with soil conserva"tLon and
livestock development, and supported by extension services and necessary in-
frastructure such as markets, local roads, and storage facilities enab'ling
the Government to implement an appropriate pricing policy. Infrastrufture
improvements would rely on local initiative where possible; under the plan,
local labor and other resources would also be used to back up economiL im-
provement with social betterment in the form of simple health facilities,
schools and training centers, and village water supply. Much preparatrfy
work on the plan still remains to be done, but with the Government's presenL
strong commitment to a rural development policy, it is likely that ftf her
progress can be made.   An IDA agricultural sector mission recent]y vigited
Rwanda and will provide further assistance to the Government regarding possi-
ble alternatives for the implementation of a rural development strategy.
6.        Faced with the prospect of a doubling of the population by (he and
of the century, the Government has ultimately little choice but to ad6pt a
policy to limit population growth.    EmigratLon is considered by some is a
short run alternative, but the practlical possibilities are limited. iithough
family planning is a sensitive issue, the Government has set up Lwo coimmis-
sions which are gradually examining various aspects of this problem, atnd
senior officials appear to have open minds on the subject.    Most of the
reservations concern implementation difficulties rather than outright objee-
tion.  This new attitude is an important. .lement and gives hoe) that &èncrete
action may ultimately be taken.
7.        Rwanda's landlocked position has been particularly disadvantageous
in the last two years when the costs of external transport for merchandise
from Europe have appr6ximately doubled.    Its need to rely on other cotntriLs'
transport systems leaves little room for action by the Government. Over th1.
last two years, some intLatives have, however, been taken within the     lmittl1
sphere possible. New roads through Tanzania to the sea and no6rthward to



-3-
Uganda are being built, while the road southward to Burundi is being improved.
On the other hand, higher transport costs constitute a natural protection
for some import substituting projects, such as cement, bricks, and peat, and
Lheir domestic production now seems more economically justified. The manu-
facturing sector is presently very small but the Government plans an expan-
sLon to take advantage of the quite limited available raw materials. While
thle development of some industry is essential to support the rural develop-
ment effort, it is clear that in the immediate future the manufacturing
sector would occupy only a modest role in the economy.
8.        The Government has been and will continue to be hampered in the
preparation and implementation of a development program by shortages of
trained manpower and organizational deficiencies. This weakness has led to
extensive use of technical assistants at the higher level, while the middle
and lower levels are understaffed both in terms of number and quality. As
a result, many basic administrative needs are barely covered. To increase
the supply of much needed skills, the Government is taking two lines of
action. Firstly, large numbers of Rwandese nationals have been studying
abroad over recent years, and there are at present 1,500 Rwandese students
at university level. Secondly, the Government is preparing, despite some
resistance, a reform of the primary education system which would modify
curricula to better meet the needs of a rural economy. The effect of this
development is already visible in the medium layers of the Government's
adminLstration, which has a group of new civil servants who are well educa-
ted and capable. The decision to base rural development on the commune can be
expected Lo put an even greater strain on the Government, but the continued
emphasis on appropriate training, to which the Government is committed, will
ultimateLy enable this constraint to be eased.
9.        Rwanda's economic history has been one of stagnation in recent
years with little real growth of GDP. During the last two years, Rwanda has
experienced poor weather and a deterioration in its terms of trade.    Climatic
conditions in 1974 were the worst in 35 years and food production fell, neces-
sitating a small emergency food imports program organized by UNDP. In 1974
the terms of trade deteriorated by 20 percent, mainly as a result of higher
internatlonal prices for imports, but also of a decline, towards the end of
the year, in export prices for coffee, the principal export crop. Weather
conditions in 1975 were more normal and permitted production to rise again.
During the first half of 1975 coffee prices remained low, but since .July have
been substantially higher, offsetting the effect of the deteriorating terms
of trade earlier in the year. Against this background, national income
fell in 1974 by 2 percent, and public savings - largely dependent oln coffee
earnings - were negative. However, the investment level was maintained and
consequently the resource gap widened from an average of US$12.5 million
in 1972-1973 (at 1972 constant prices) to US$18 millP,n in 1974 and 1975.
Investments in 1974 and 1975 were roughly equivalent to 10 percent of GDP.
Financing of the resource gap did not present any major difficulty, as Rwanda
receives considerable amotnts of external assistance.
10.       Most external assistance to Rwanda has in the past been in the
form of grants. Aid commitments reached over US$50 million in 1974, in-
cluding technical assistance and budgetary support in the form of recurrent



- 4 -
cost financing, and many countries and agencies Intend to offer increased
assistance to Rwanda in the future. The principal external aid agencies
operating in Rwanda are Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Switzer'and, the
European Development Fund, UNDP and IDA. In view of the Government's staff
constraints and its correspondingly low ability to prepare and implement
development projects, a considerable amount of aid to Rwanda has necessarily
been in the form of technical assistance. However, appropriate counterparts
were not always available and some of the training benefits were lost.
Furthermore, technical assistance has tended to produce projects that were not
always well suited to the country's needs by making insufficient use of local
materials, local manpower and existing institutions. Besides this, the
recurrent costs of projects were often high, and their position In the overall
development strategy not always clear. To avoid these difficulties in the
future, the Government has begun to be more rigorous in its choice of priority
projects, and has decided to organize a meeting of aid lgencies in the fall
of 1976 with a view to ensuring future projects that are more closely related
to national priorities and improved coordination among the external agencies
themselves.
11.       Rwanda's external debt is low.   External public debt, outstanding
and disbursed, amounted at the end of 1974 to US$13.0 million, of which IDA
credits represented US$8.2 million. Service payments on this debt amounted to
US$0.5 million in 1974, or about 1.2 percent of export earnings, of which
payments to IDA represented 6 percent. Nonetheless, because of Rwanda's
poverty, assistance should continue to be on the most concessional terms and
should cover a high proportion of total project cost, including local cost.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
12.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and has so far focused
primarily on the improvement of the road network, on which the country is
almost entirely dependent for the movement of its domestic and foreign trade.
Rwanda has received six IDA credits totaling IJS$39.9 million, of which four
were for roads, one for agriculture, and one for education. There have been
no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was approved in
1975. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of May 31, 1976 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Problems have arisen in the course of execution of several proj-
ects, particularly with respect to the FirsL Highway Project (Credit 196-RW).
Severe cost overruns occurred, which led in 1975 to a supplemental IDA credit
of US$9.5 million, of which US$0.8 million would be used to help finance cost
increases under the Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 299-RW) of 1972. The
Saudi Fund for Development agreed to co-finance part of the cost overrun of
the First Highway Project with a loan of US$5.0 million. The implementation
of the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 439-RW) began in September



1974, about a year behind schedule because of delays in selecting a suit-
able consulting firm to assist in project execution. Plans for settlement
of the project area could not be carried out as anticipated since farmers
had already occupied part of the area before projecL inception. Following
an in-depth review in November 1975, the project is now being revised, taking
into account the development of an irrigation and drainage project in the same
area financed by Canada.
14.       In future, we intend to continue to pay close attention Lo
the execution of ongoing projects.   Because of the lack of skilled manpower
and expertise in Rwanda, this will require substantial input of Bank Group
staff and expatriate experLs.   As technical assistance is being provided by
various sources, we also intend to pursue our efforts to improve cooperation
and coordination among the aid agencies active in Rwanda.   With respect to
new opsrations, we intend to place primary emphasis on agriculture while
continuing our support to the highway and education sectors. This is in
accordance with GovernmenL priorities.
15.       Two operations are at an advanced stage of preparation.    A Cin-
chona Development Project was negotiated sLmultaneously with the proposed
BRD project, and will be presented to the Executive Directors in Llte near
future.  A Mixed Farming/Rtural Development Project has been appraised, and
is expected to be negotialed in Lhe next few monthls.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS IN RWANDA
tlanufacturLig
16.       Rwanda's manufacturing sector is sLill at an infant stage and consists
of abouL 75 enLerprises operating above the handicraft level.    Of these only
one can be described as large - a brewery located near Lake Kivu aL (isenyi.
Other major activities are the processing of agricultural products for export,
such as coftee, tea, pyreLhrum and( cinchona.  Many oi the smi alIcr enterpr ises
are also based on crop processing, for example, production of oil, flour, jam
and sugar for the domestic market.   Manufacturing includtng handicrafLs employs
about 16,00() persons or just over one percenL of the labor force, andl contri-
butes about 4 percent to GDP.
17.       Future industrial development faces severe constraints and must be
guided by a real istLic assessment of the counitry' s potentLial.  There is short-
age of trained manpower in industrial skills and there is only a small entre-
preneurial class withl experience in industrial management.  Available pri-
mary materials are limited to agriculturil products, a methane gas d(eposit



-6-
in the waters of Lake Kivu, lime for cement production, and peat for use as
fuel. Both the domestic and export markets for Rwandese products encounter
many problems: the domestic market is small, with low purchasing power, and
transport costs within the country are high; the profitability of exporting
many products is diminished by Rwanda's landlocked position.
18.       Although the Government is giving first priority to an integrated
nationwide rural development program, it also recognizes the need to develop
some industrial base to promote a more balanced development. Crop processing
and the manufacture of agricultural inputs and equipment offer good potential
in this respect. To ensure that increasing rural incomes do not result in
proportionately increased imports, the manufacture of consumer goods, such
as shoes, clothing, cigarettes, sugar, soap, and others would be justified.
In mosL cases the scale of operation would be modest, and the choice of tech-
nology should reflect as closely as possible Rwanda's surplus of unskilled
labor and shortage of managerial skills.
19.       The Government's objectives for the industrial sector, as set out
in its draft 5-year plan for 1976-81, include:
(1) An annual growth rate of 15 percent in the
industrial sector;
(2) Creation of 11,000 new jobs in the industrial
sector by 1981 (excluding the construction
industry and tourism);
(3) Expansion of existing small- and medium-
size enterprises to satisfy the needs of
the domestic markeL and possibly to export
to neighboring countries; particularly in
food processing, agriculLural implements,
and clothing; and
(4)  fraining, and technical and financial assis-
tance to local industrial enLrepreneurs, and
training of technicians in order to localize
the staffing of small- and medium-size enter-
prises.
20.       In order to achieve Lhese ambitious objectLves, a number of insti-
tutionaL steps are being taken.   An Office for Industrial Promotion is being
organLzed within the Ministry of Finance and Economy to act as a coordinat-
ing agency aImong ministries concerned, to assist promoters in preparing and
implementing new projects, and to attracL foreign private investments. This
Office is likely to be supported by 5 or 6 experts from UNIDO, including
industrial economists, engineers and financial analysts.    An industrial park



- 7 -
has recently been constructed in Kigali, with financing by the European
Development Fund, and should be ready for use in the near future. Finally,
as described in paragraph 47, technical assistance provided by the Rwanda
Development Bank (BRD) to its clients is also being improved.
Mining
21.       The mining sector is modest, and is based on the exploitation of
small and scattered reserves of cassiterite (tin ore) and wolfram (tungsten
ore). Both are exported without further processing. About 85-90 percent of
mineral output is produced by foreign or mixed companies and the balance
is extracted by small artisanal producers whose mode of operation is well
adapted to Rwanda's dispersed reserves. Mining employs about 2,400 persons
and it contributes about 2 percent to GDP. Exports of ore are a significant
source of foreign exchange, providing between 15 and 30 percent of export
earnings in recent years.
22.       Mining offers some potential for further investment, but production
of cassiterite and wolfram is sensitive to international prices, which have
not been favorable since 1970. At present cassiterite is exported to Malaysia
and Belgium for processing, but current plans to establish a small plant in
Rwanda would increase local value added and might possibly stimulate ore pro-
duction since mining companies and artisanal miners could be paid higher
prices for ore.
Tourism
23.       Rwanda possesses natural features favorable for tourism develop-
ment which are still not fully exploited. In 1975, hotel accommodation
capacity was just over 500 beds, of which 300 were of international standard.
Tourist arrivals were about 8,000 and annual earnings from tour[sm are esti-
mated at US$1 million, of which about 50 percent remained in the country.
Hotel capacity for international tourism has doubled in the last 3 years, and
both tourist arrivals and the number of hotel nights have increased signifi-
cantly over the same period. However, hotel occupancy is still low (39
percent). At present most hotel capacity is concentrated in the capital
of Kigali.
24.       Best use can be made of Rwanda's natural assets by attracting
"circuit tours" that also visit Kenya, Tanzania and Zaire. This is already
being done on a small scale and brings tourists from North America and Europe
to Rwanda on extended African tours. They visit Kagera National Park, which
is somewhat similar to other East African parks but in an unusually attractive
hilly setting, and the Volcanoes National Park, where the endangered moun-
tain gorilla lives. The opening of modern accommodation on Lake Kivu, near
the sandy beaches at Gisenyi, could also contribute to the development of
tourism in Rwanda.



- 8 -
25.       Some of the constraints to tourism are the same as those that hamper
industrial growth: lack of experience and shortage of trained personnel, high
construction costs, geographical isolation, and insufficient internaL transport.
To these can be added the greater difficulty of justifying a major growth of
tourism, given the priority needs of other sectors.
Financial Sector
26.       The financial system in Rwanda consists of the Central Bank, two
commercial banks (the Commercial Bank of Rwanda and the Bank of Kigali), the
Development Bank of Rwanda (BRD) described in PART IV of this Report, the
Savings Association, the Peoples Bank, the Postal Checking System and the
Social Security Fund. During the period 1971-1973, total domestic credit more
than aoubled, mostly due to a rapid increase in borrowings by the Government.
In 1974, total credit increased by another 33 percent, to a level of about
US$55.0 million equivalent. In December 1974, the Central Bank accounted for
55 percent of total domestic credit, commercial banks for 37 percent, the
Savings Association for 5 percent and BRD for 5 percent.
27.       The Central Bank formulates credit and monetary policies, and
manages the country's international reserves. In addition, alL loan appli-
cations in the country, in excess of RwF 1 million, require its prior appro-
val. The Central Bank also administers a system of import licenses which
permits a selective allocation of foreign exchange earnings. It extends
credit to the public sector, the commercial banks, BRD, and, in some instances,
directly to the private sector.
28.       The Commercial Bank of Rwanda, established in 1963, is largely owned
(55 percent) by a consortium of European and North American banks and the
Government of Rwanda. It has four branch offices in the main agglomerations
of the country. Total outstanding loans as of September 30, 1975 amounted to
about US$15 million, almost half of which were made to the public sector. The
Bank of Kigali, established in 1966, is owned by European and North American
financial institutions (65 percent), and by the Savings Association and the
Social Security Fund. Its total outstanding loans as of September 30, 1975
amounted to US$20.0 million, about 75 percent of which was for financing the
sale of coffee. Both commercial banks also engage in mortgage financing.
29.       The Savings Association lends niostly for housing to individuals,
and has deposits of almost US$4.0 milliont equivalent, representing about two
thirds of the savings and time deposits with the banking system, the rest
being accounted for by the commercial banks. Rwanda has also a Postal Check-
ing System.



- 9 -
30.       The Peoples Bank started in late 1973 as a credit union project.
It is supported by Swiss bilateral aid and the Rwandese Government. About 300
independent branches are planned to be opened over the next 10 years. The
role of these small banks is to mobilize local savings and provide short- and
medium-term financing to the rural sector. The first 12 branches were opened
in August and September 1975, and in this two-month period they mobilized
about RwF 7 million coming from about 1,200 depositors. It is estimated that
the savings mobilization potential in the rural areas amounts to RwF 1 billion,
representing 40 percent of total deposits presently with all financial institu-
tions.
Interest Rate Structure
31.       The Interest rate structure in Rwanda is characterized by:     (a) a
low levcl of interest rates in general; (b) relatively wide margins obtained
by the commercial banks; (c) lack of differentiation between the remuneration
of savings instruments with different maturities, and (d) the lower rates
charged for medium- and long-term credits than for short-term loans.
32.       The interest rate on deposits with the commercial banks, the Savings
Association and the Peoples Bank is 3 percent per annum; for Government
bonds subscribed by the financial institutions it is 4 percent, while medium-
term bonds (4 years) issued by BRD earn 4.5 percent. Short-term loans
by commercial banks carry an interest rate of 11 percent, except for loans
for export crop processing and export credits which are at 8 percent and
4-6 percent, respectively. Medium- and long-term loans, which represent only
5-6 percent of total domestic credit, are mostly extended by BRD and the
Savings Association. Interest rates charged on these loans vary between 6 and
9 percent, with an average of about 7.5 percent, including com-
missions.
33.       The arguments presented by the Government in support of the relatively
low Interest rate structure are (i) that potential savers attach much less
Importance to interest rates than to security and ready access to deposits,
(ii) that Investment opportunities are limited, and the rate of returni on
most investments is low (about 8-10 percent), and (iii) that higher rates of
interest would discourage potential promotors. Nevertheless, we beLieve that
an upward adjustment of interest rates would be justified, as higher rates
would attract some additional deposits, which could be effectively used
without unduly restricting the investors' prospective returns.
34.       The Association has therefore discussed with the Government the
possibility that its efforts to improve financial intermediation throughout
the country be supplemented by an increase in interest rates on bank deposits,
an increase in medium-and long-term debit Interest rates, as well as some
differentiation of credit interest rates according to maturities of deposits.
The dialogue on this matter will be continued in the context of further Bank
Group operations, with a view to seek further rationalization of Rwanda's
interest rate structure.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Banque Rwandaise de Develop-
pement" (Report No. 1008a-RW, dated June 24, 1976) is being circulated
separately. A credit and project summary is attached as Annex Ill. Follow-
ing discussions during the 1974 Annual Meeting and an exploratory mission in
May 1975, the project was appraised in November 1975. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from May 24 to May 28, 1976. The Rwandese delegation con-
sisted of the Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Denis Ntirugirimbabazi,
and BRD's Director General, Mr. Jean-Damascene Munyarukiko.
Historv
36.       BRD was established in 1967 as a limited liability company with
a share capital of RwF 50 million, which has since been increased twice and
now stands at RwF 208 million, or about US$2.2 million equivalent. Thie main
shareholders are the Government and other Rwandese public institutions (56
percent), the Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (9 percent), Caisse Centrale
of France (9 percent), Bank of Tokyo (3 percent), Commercial Bank of Rwanda
and the Bank of Kigali (each 8 percent), and other private shareholders
(7 percent). BRD is to provide financing for the creation and development of
enterprises in Rwanda. It engages in equity investments and extends term
loans or guarantees in all sectors of the economy, particularly in industry,
transport and tourism. BRD is authorized to receive deposits from enterprises,
administer funds, issue notes and borrow at home or abroad.
Management and Organization
37.       BRD's Board of Directors consists of eleven members, of which
six represent the public sector, while five seats are held by, respectively,
the Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft, the Caisse Centrale of France, the two
local commercial banks, and the Brewery and Soft Drinks Company of Rwanda,
which is the major enterprise in the country. All Board members are experienced
executives. They meet once a month and all loans are subject to their appro-
val. The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the President of Rwanda from
among the members; the President also appoints the Director General upon a
proposal from the Board. Mr. Munyarukiko, a graduate from Leningrad University,
has been Director General since 1973. His two immediate assistants include
Mr. Mbonabuca, who has worked in the Central Bank of Burundi, and Mr. Thamm,
an economist and engineer, seconded since April 1975 by Germany. This three-
man team is competent, dynamic and efficient, and the members complement each
other well.



- 11 -
38.       BRD's organizational structure includes an Investment Depart[nent
in charge of project promotion, appraisal, implementation and follow-ul), and
a Department of Finance, Administration and Personnel.    The existing organi-
zation is adequate for the present level of operations, but if acLivity
develops as projected, BRD's staff will need strengthening and Llte organi-
zation will have to be more elaborate. Future staff requirements wilI be met
through technical assistance from Germany and Belgium and local recruiLmenL.
Policy Statement
39.       BRD's Policy Statement for term-lending and equity investmenits
was recently revised to include clauses on maximum commitment per single
enterprise, maximum normal proportion of project financing,     and geographical
and sectoral distribution of operations.    Adoption of an addiLional clause
providing that BRD will not carry the foreign exchange risk under any of its
foreign operations is a condition of disbursement (Section 2.03(f), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Policy Statement conforms generally to
those normally followed by development finance companies for which the Bank
Group has provided funds. Any substantial amendment would be made in muLual
agreement between the AssociatLion and BRD (Section 2.10, draft Project
Agreement).
Operations and Financial Results
40.       From 1971 to 1975, BRD approved 124 medium- and long-term loans,
totaling about US$5.4 million equivalent, and seven equity investments,
totaling US$0.6 million equivalent. Industrial loans accounted for 43 percent
of total loans approved, whlile transporL and tourism projects received 36
and 9 percent, respectively.   Almost 90 percent of the industrial loans
approved were made in the food and beverage sub-sector and for processing of
agricultural products. The largest two loans were for the expansion of the
brewery and for a tea-processing plant.    Other industrial loans, ranging from
US$10,000 to US$150,000 equivalent, were maide in the construction and mechan-
ical industries, printing and mining.
41.       The quality of BRD's loan and equity portfolio is satisfactory,
and its financial situation is sound. Arrears amount to less than one per-
cent of outstanding loans.   BRD's administrative costs have remained low at
about 2 percent of average assets.    Net profits, which have been modesL in Lhe
past, represented 8.5 percent of average equity in 1973, but decreased to 2
percent in 1974, due to a change in accounting method from an accrual to a
cash basis, without which it would have been 7 percent. It reached 4.3 percent
in 1975 and should further increase over the years to reach 7 percent by
1980.



- 12 -
42.       BRD's project appraisals are satisfactory, but do not contain a
thorough economic assessment of the projects. BRD has agreed that, as a first
step, for all import-substitution projects above the free-limit, the economic
rate of return will be calculated in accordance with guidelines satisfactory
to the Association (Section 2.02 (b), draft Project Agreement). Based on the
experience gained, BRD may in due time extend such calculations to other
projects as well.
Pipeline and Resource Requirements
43.       BRD's project pipeline includes a variety of proposed operations,
such as soap, cigarettes and brick manufacturing, peat, tin and cinchona
processing, carpentry, transportation and perhaps a hotel. Present fore-
casts indicate that from early 1976 to mid-1978, BRD's loan approvals would
amount to about US$8.5 million equivalent, of which US$7.5 million for term
loans and about US$1.0 million for equity investments. Given BRD's pipeline
and the Government's intention to stimulate the industrial sector, these
projections appear reasonable.
44.       The foreign exchange component of the projected approvals through
mid-1978 is estimated at about US$6.8 million, and the local component at
US$1.7 million equivalent. The Government has agreed to provide BRD with
adequate financing for the local cost component and the aggregate amount
would be not less than RwF75 million (Section 3.03, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Possibilities of obtaining foreign resources from for-
eign lenders is being actively explored by the Government and BRD. As
a result of these efforts, it is expected that BRD will be able to ob-
tain about US$2.8 million equivalent in the next two years, mostly from
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau and the Caisse Centrale of France, a share-
holder. It is therefore recommended that IDA funds of US$4.0 million
equivalent, representing 57 percent of BRD's forecast foreign exchange
requirements, be made available to complete the financing plan for foreign
exchange.
Onlending Terms
45.       Interest rates charged by BRD on loans to industry and tourism
vary between 5.5 and 7 percent for medium-term loans (up to five years) and
between 6 and 7 percent for long-term loans, to which is added a commission of
one percent per annum for loans to industry and tourism, and 2 percent for
loans to commerce. Loans to agriculture, which comprise about 6 percent of
total loans, carry an interest rate of 5 percent per annum. On the average,
BRD's long-term loans to industry have an effective cost of 7.5 percent to
the sub-borrowers.



- 13 -
46.       For loans financed out of the proceeds of the credit, BRD's interest
rates, including commission, will not be less than 9 percent for medium- and
large-scale enterprises, which is considered adequate at this time given the
considerations discussed in paragraphs 33 and 34 above. Small-scale enter-
prises, as defined in Section 1.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, will be charged an interest rate of not less than 7 percent (Section
2.03 (a), draft Project Agreement). Loans to small-scale industries are ex-
pected to represent only a small fraction of the total credit. Amortization
would be over a period not exceeding 20 years in the case of tourism projects,
and 15 years in the case of all other loans and investments. (Section 2.02
(d), draft Project Agreement). The free limit for individual sub-loans is
US$100,000 equivalent, and US$1 million in the aggregate (Section 2.03 (d),
draft Development Credit Agreement). This limit will enable us to review
about two thirds of the sub-loans and investments. The agreed maximum debt/
equity ratio is 3:1 (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
47.       The Government would onlend the proceeds of the credit to BRD for
a period substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of the sub-loans and schedules of repayments for investments, with
interest at 4 percent per annum, and would also carry the foreign exchange
risk. This would leave BRD a 5 percent spread to cover its administrative
expenses, make a normal profit and provide needed technical assistance to
enterprises, as referred to in the following paragraph.
Technical Assistance
48.       The Government is of the opinion that there is great need in Rwanda
for management assistance and technical advisory services to industrial en-
terprises, and BRD has agreed to expand its assistance through a technical
assistance unit (Section 2.11, draft Project Agreement). It has been decided
that one percentage point of BRD's spread shall be used exclusively for the
financing of technical assistance activities and BRD has confirmed its in-
tention to use these funds for that purpose. This will involve a total amount
of US$100,000 over the period 1977-81.
Auditors
49.       BRD's accounts are presently reviewed and approved by two statutory
accountants, who do not meet, however, Bank Group requirements for auditors.
There are no auditors in Rwanda that would qualify, and the alternative of
finding French speaking.auditors in neighboring Kinshasa or Nairobi is being
explored. A Bank Group mission will examine BRD's 1975 accounts in detail,
before withdrawals under the credit can be made (Section 2.03 (f)(i), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Thereafter, an audit of BRD's accounts would
be undertaken annually by an auditing firm acceptable to the Association. The
cost of the first three audits would be ftnanced out of the proceeds of the
proposed credit (Section 2.03(a)(ii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
The absence of qualified independent auditors in Rwanda poses a serious
problem that goes well beyond the auditing of BRD. A dialogue has been
started with the Government on how best to improve the accounting capability
in Rwanda. These discussions will be pursued in the course of supervision of
the project.



- 14 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Procurement will be handled through normal commercial channels.
Disbursements will be made against 100 percent of foreign expenditures of
imported items; 80 percent of expenditures in Rwandese Francs for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower but previously imported through
normal trade channels; 80 percent of expenditures in Rwandese Francs for
civil works contracts, and 100 percent of the foreign cost of BRD's audits
for the years 1976, 1977 and 1978 (Section 2.03(a) ii and (b), draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). The period for commitment of the funds is two
and one half years, and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed in
about 5 years.
Economic Benefits and Justification
51.        The economic rate of return on sub-projects is expected to be
somewhat higher than the corresponding financial rates of return (estimated to
average about 10 percent), reflecting the economic benefits from employment
creation and increased foreign exchange earnings. However, there are otlher
contributions of the project to the Rwandese economy which are difficult to
quantify at this early stage of BRD's relationship with the Bank Group. BRD
is the only institution for the promotion and financing of industrial invest-
ments in Rwanda, and the IDA funds constitute an important part of the foreign
exchange needed for industrial investment. Therefore, the credit makes a
major contribution to the implementation of the Government's policy of expan-
sion and diversification of the economy. The Association can, in addition,
help BRD strengthen its project appraisal capabilities and internal account-
ing methods, and support its technical assistance to enterprises.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Rwanda Development Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreements
of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 33, 34, 42, 44, 46, 47,
48 and 49 of this Report. The securing of satisfactory additional informa-
tion on the accounts of BRD and the amendment of BRD's Statement of Policy
to provide that BRD shall not carry the foreign exchange risk on any of its
operations in foreign exchange, are special conditions of disbursements
(Section 2.03 (f), draft Development Credit Agreement). Signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (Section 6.02 (b), draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).



-15 -
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
June 24, 1976






Neat-    000                                   C00rU~4  "  :  :- I.
mint  QN',m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~Ie ~   19IiI
I                                      #4~~~~~~~~~11  -..J                                53a 
SI4
a      m444.-?
CCC                                      ao
U...  once  *3'                                 p.00                                     a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  onC-
~~~~t  ~~~~~~~~bm                           N~A                            a              t          O
I:  t.  ..  *.  *caoms  cc  a  ass  CC  mm  0Cm~~~~~~~~~~~f  COla   .m   4?m  CCC  * IL   0  0 '  0
U, E  EN  -6  CCCV                                      U ,                -          m 
U :  w WSW  -                -    -  n;; .1 . I              Z   owo-'  N  0 
Zw                    w; Z I   WOWC         I  t  !  ~O   ---N               -.  :
:1'  0    W                        o  W -                                                          0
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                               Il
*~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                             IL 
u   sI



Attachmaent I
bleOSS Otburma. noted, deta for I36 refer to W Year bsUfen 1959 M 1361, for 1970 between 1968 end 197, end for Posft Recent Ketiteat between
VW1  n  1973.
- £qa beeas "alooted as an obajeetlv esoftat7 booam It ines Afrmowcounmtry with Os agr-tcultur.-beeed .oonW w,hich has aucceoded in reaeching
a lesel of .-  .ami   dem1oPmt subsatntially kdos tbm that ot boed.
glum   1960    L   1957;   /b Botlo of popualtion uender ISan 65       05 oer to total labor forcei  Le  1962.
I__O        15-59 and 60 years end over raspeotive4ly   &   hUtm Of pogasltlan under 15 and 60 end over to toted law,o fr-ce;
NS is= mrxIMS, /a Inloeldi aldeise.
ftLwj       IM      a ~ 1966;   /b  Potio of populatiom under 1S end 65 end over to totel labor force;   Le  Coverags of date unknown;   /d  196J.-66,
Le 19671 Lf Urb,s only.
hA&A&       1970    /a  Ibialend Tensenia;   &   19671  /c 1965;    /d  Urben only.
1970          /   Registered only;   /b I96-691     /c  ottio of population under IS end 65 end over ino labor force ego 15-59 yesar;   Ld  labor
force ego 15-59 Yees;    /a tAbes;    If Rsgistered, not all practiclng in the coo,ntry.
R2, May i, 1976
'ntrMMDS OF SDCIAL IDWICATORS
1=4 Area ith..  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~~,Vation ,e nusng            rson - Populat.on divided by number of practicing
ja   : T.iiT   All     mc eras c rising Iad area end inland  twetrs                       en    soel gr    Ae flurses, 'traied' or '-certified" nureso, end
- spt rsCGht estisate ct eW'ulraural eAse useed tesWrarily or per-            auxiliary prersonnel with training or experience..
inently for crepe, Pestearse ewket & kitchens gardens, or to lie teilow.           Rh. egit4albod              Population di,ided by number of hoepitol beds
a Ifh    El  9fflfen    privae general and spwnialleed hospital end
- (t     S UP Per capite estimtats at rerket prices, ealcu-            rsbabilitation enotera; exlaim    nursing homes and estabi isheuctB for
TaebsecOnlsreien sethod as World Bonk Atlas (1972-74. basis),                custodial and preventive  are.
Parcaptasuply  f aloies(6of eqireots) - C.op.tod from enr-gy
,1_1 statiati-  ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      eqialn     o   otfodsppis        sijbein country per cepit. per day;
d       !  i) - An of July first; if not ea-ilable, average              available supplies wonra.us  domesstic production, iqurts l-es eaporte,
or two and-7mr tatimtes.                                     ~~~~~~~~and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties1 used in food processing mid losses in distributionj requironete
Population mst -_ pey      mur be  . idY-yer populatice par square kilo-             .sre ..tinatcd by PAO base d on phyaelclgicaI nsd. for normal activity
..ter (10hecteras    of   e   ara.ac health considering msvirocmontal tsqermp.tur., bu4, enights, age and
Psoulatle deet     orC      r     heOf e lic. lend - Computed as above for,          seX distributious of population, and allowing 10% fur west.eat houethold
egrlcolasral l nd Mgy                                                          eel.
Per capita aoupn of.FoEiNK(reen Per day) - Protein content of per
tal statietice                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~capita net supply~fo  prdy  not supply of food is defined as
;R14 Gan st     thousan  - Annual lIve birth. per thousand of mid-              above; requirements for all countries established tly USDA Roonomdo
year popuaUtion; iiuslI  fiv-7er averages ending in 1960, 1970 end                  Rseearh Services p-oide for a dninm- alosan-      of 60 gras  of total
1975 far developing countries,                                                     protein per day, and 20 grmam of animal end pul.. protein, of whi.ih 10
Cru de dMeath rete per thouaend - Annual deathe per thousand of mid-year             grams should be aninal protein; these standards are-.1o,er then those uf
pouain  usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                75 grao  of total W.o-sn end 23 gran   of antoa pr.t.in as am vaerage
for dvselopic  ounrt                                                               for thle world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Infnt ertlti rae Ctou) - Annual deaths of Infants under one year             Per c  it rtein suply fros amisal and pulse - Protein supply of fond
,,,:DI pe  Housa    rie   brh,                                                    deraTived fi   animAls and pulses in1 grams per day.
Lf   tnyat birth    s(~ - Average camber of years of life reamin-           Deathra:teiU  ou   Ra a 1-~ - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
Sif?tt ith S"llyflV7!~ysa, averages ending in 19,60, 1970 end                      yeas,     tochi r" In F thjs age group; suggested as an cndicotor of eel-
195for developing  cutries,                                                      nutrition.
gjft grj~ tjcnrate - Average n=ber of live daughters a wosan mill
ne-i1o 1di      rPprodtvti-n period if seb experi~ene  present age.         Rducation
specific fertili ty rates; ususlly fiv-ysa   -aveage  sidIn  in 1960,            A&mstd enr0l1m    t ratIo -  Winsery school -                    grlnn  fciags as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                            percentage of prieary-shool~--e-op-opulaion; includes c1hildren aged
Population  reth rate  (  - tota    - Compound annual growth rates of mid-           6-U years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
year pultion, fo_r _19-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to mset recent year.                   fwr countries with universal education, enollment may exceed 100%
Pftion            ra.te    4  - urban - Computed like grovth rate of total           since some pupils arc helos or above the official school age.
on;  rvnt dfntone of urban areas may affect compara-                 Adlustedenolmet ratio t- Seondarshool - Gosputd as above; second-
biltly of date anong countries.                                                                        ary dcto  eursa  es  oryas uf approve.d primar  inotruc-
Urbapupptimn(% of total) - Ratio of.urban to tutal population; dir-                  tion; Provides general. ocaticua1 ur teaher training instru.tious for
fiji0      of)55i-ban areas may effect cooper-ability of data               pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coursen  are generally
"WVg counries,                                                                     excluded.
Age    tju r   ca9,nt) - Children (0-li years), sorbing-geg (15-64 Years),         Years of ecoli&Z-rovded(first anld second evl)           Total Year  sf
ant retired  61 years and over) aso percntages of mid-year population.             SChoolnga      seondr    leel, vocational ltre   tl I.,    iY Lpartially
Ag.-   -scyrtio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end ...or in                   r osepletely excluded.
ths   rages 1  roz.  ugh 64.                                                 Voainlerlmn16o             eodr)-Vo~na              institutions include
k2n~g.~4euyr.tio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end ovrtcoc0                           nhtii sohrpoiaoilchOeaeidpnetyo
3R-=g              group of 15-6i years.                                     as departments of sensodary instltuions.
SCaIy olmsii.g -accetors(cusolative. thou) - Cuslativo crashe ofA:t.1!!                  t'gteral (%) - Literate adults (able to red nd -rite) as per-
acceptors of birth-contro  devices under suspicee of national family               cot.eo      o   al dult PoPulatIon aged 15 years and over.
planning progra  sinc    inception.
Pambly planning - users (of married womne) - Psrcentages of married                Poi
wonen of child-bearing ag   I5-.44 years ) who use birth-control do-                   - P.MnAverage nunbar of person. per roon in oocupid
-ices to all married vesn  in Same age group.                                      covent1ßonal      IIaitjmi urban areas; dwellings exlude non-persunnnt
st-utures and unoccupied porte.
amimimt                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied deellince withoutOPAed ~aster_(L) - Occpied convetional dwell-
Toa    !r farce (thousand) - gconomically active persons, including                  ings i uran ae;d rura'lars      thtL,eoouidppdetr
are    orce  and unsepoyed but excluding housewives, students, sin.;            facili ties as percentage of all occupied dwellinge.
defiitions in vario-s countries ars not compaable.                               Access to electricit- 6o     l d elns         ConventioMal dwellings with
ulue  Agricultural labor forc     (in farming,1            elctricity, in lITving quarters as percent of total dvrelli.ngs in urban
orWs    , 'MMt ng en. flh-) as percentage of total labor force,                    and rural areas.
(o0             ao    gg     hvoe     we usualy defined as per-               Rural -wllng  tcn    etd to electrIcity (%) - Computed as above for rural,
day, rsain d out of a Jet, and seeking work for a specified hdninmm
period not excedinig one wseek; may net be comparable between coon-              Co   mtion
trise due to differet definitions of unesMloyed end source of data,                  R   C'PP )- A-1 types of recivers for radio broad-
s.g., employment office statistics, smple eurvsas, ome1pulsory unum-               ca                      per thousand o1- population; excudes WUlicened
ployment ins%u,race.                                                                raeniv-rs in countries and in year chop registration of radio sets was
in affet; data for reet yeas say nout be cormparable Stone msat coon.
Incomse distribution  - percencage of private imo.e (both in cash end                tries abolished licens ing.
kind  reeive  byrichest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, end poorest            Passenorw cars  per_jL21o   ) - Paegr caro coepris      ntotr oars seating
kiO ofbseolo                                                                                }              op    Pseg
4097 boamehol                                                 l~~~~~~~~~~~~ass thn lgh persons; excludes anbulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
~Ift t';:~:A hwornehi- Percena-ges of lend onend by wsalthivet               Ha.1j    I  herb           ) - Annua concsumption of industrial, -emer-
l0Wmbddu~~~iitI~?~~)~ossvers.                               cia1, publi~~c WId Private electric ity in kilowatt hours per capIta; gen-
and  W                                                            ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rll  aed on production data, without allowance for losses in grids
but allosing for imports and expusto of electricity.
t        clan - ~Population divided by cnumber of practicing            1                       (-  Per cap ita ann,ual onrsumption in kilogrwwe
elicn    quelita  onr  a medical school at university level,somv p_roduction plus rt imports of newsprint.



Attachment I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA in 197      US $ 80
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197 4                                      ANNUAL RATe OF GROWTrH a. 1972 -     prices)
US $ Mn. n.                              1960-65           i970714             1974
GNP at Market Prices           301Q3        1000                        *                   1.2              0.1
Gross Domestic Investment       32.3w       10.7                                            53               4.4
Gross National Saving           12.9!'       4.3                        * *                13.1             16.2
Current Account Balance       - 19.4       - 6.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           37.6        12.5                                           2,4              13.4
Imports of Goods, NFS           65.9        21.9                                          -1.533.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                         Labor Force2                   V. A. Per Worker
US$SMln,       x                    Thoma .       a.                   us$          x.
Agriculture                  182.7        63.7                   1636        93.2                 111.7        68,4
Industry                      28.5        10.0                               1.5                 1             7
Services                      75.5        26.3                     6                             31
Unallocated                    .            .                      69         3.y                               9
Total/Average                      r0co                               100.0                  13.3        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                 e
General Government                           Central CoVernwentY
(      Mln.)       .% of GDP.                 ( RwF   Mln.)       % of GDP
197           197      196 -7                 197A         I
Current Receipts                                                                     35           12.3    134.
Current Expenditurer
Current Surplus                                                                      -279         -1.0    -1.1
Capital Expenditureo                                                                  2745         0.9     2.1
External Assistance (net)                                                             *-           0-      .-
iI The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1972-74 market prices, as calculated in the
1975 World Bank Atlas.           All other conversions to dollars              in  this   talle are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2   U/ 'nal1ocatedhf consists of unemployed people without occupkation fcr health reasons, old age, 'tc.  Statistics
available refer to ocoupational distribution of populatimn above 15 years, i.e. not exactly to labor fiurce.
3/ Excluding external assistanse                 .. not available
St Excluding external aasistance                    not applicable
47 Mission estimnate



Attachment I
Page 4 of 4 pages
MONEY, (REDI)T and PRICES                       1969         1970         1971        1972         1973         1974
(Million RwF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         2121         2542         2919        2644         3956         5506
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  1402         1194         1503        2044         2322         2913
Bank Credit to Private Sector 1.               437          658         886          373          833         1904
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             11.2         11.6         13.1        11.6         16.2         19.2
General Price Index (1970 - 100) 2/                       100.0       103.0        106.0        114.0        150.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                            *,           of           3.0         2.9          7.5         31.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                  30.1        -14.8        25.9         36.0         13.6         25.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                 42.8         50.6        34.7        -57.9        123.3        128.6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972      1973     1974                                                  US S Mln    %
(Millions US $)                   Coffee                                17.0    56.3
Tea                                    2.2     7.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           20.4     30.7      37.6              Pyrethrum                              1.3     4.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           40.0     35.6      65.9              Cassiterite                            4.9    16.2
Resourcc Gap (deficit          _ -)      : -4 9   -28.3              Wolfram                                1.6     5.3
Interest Payments (net)          0.1       0.1      0.4                All other commodities                3.2     10.6
Workers' Remittances            -o.6       0.5       -                       Total                         30.2    10Q00
Other Factor Payments (net)      -         -        -
Net Transfers                    4.5       6.8      8.5              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account     -15.6       1.5     -9-4
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment        0.9       2.7       3.2
Net MLT Borrowing                                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                13.0
Disbursements                 0.9       2.8      4.5                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                  0.4       0.1      0.6                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal0.                              27       3.
Capital Grants                   5.8       5.8      11.6             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974"
Other Capital (net)              0.5      -1.3     -0.8                                                            %
Other items n.e.i                2-0       0.9        -
Errors and Omissions             1.8      -3.8      7.8                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1.2
Increase in Reserves (-)         4.1      -8.5     -6.3                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        6.6      16.4      14.3               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves    (end year)       3.3      12.0       8.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING. May 31/1976 (Million US $):
Throtgh  - 197                                                                                          IBED        IDA
US $ 1.00 = RwF 92.1
1.00 = US $0.0109                                          Outstanding & Disbursed                 -         17.6
Undisbursed
Sin_. lan. 1974                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                     22- 2 3
US $   .00, RwF 92.8                                                                                               39.9
1.00 = US $0.0108
May 31, 1976
1/ Bank credit to private sector includes claims on official entities.
2/ Consumer price index for Kigali.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
May 31, 1976
EACPII



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN RWANDA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at May 31, 1976)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Credit     Fiscal                                           2/
Number      Year     Borrower      Purpose             IDA          Undisbursed
196-RW      1970     Rwanda        Kigali-Gatuna
Road Construction    18.8 1/          6.7
299-RW      1972     Rwanda        Road Maintenance     3.0              0.6
439-RW       1974    Rwanda        Agropastoral
Development           3.8             2.9
475-RW      1974     Rwanda        Ruhengeri-Gisenyi
Road Construction    6.3              4.1
567-RW      1975     Rwanda        Education            8.0              8.0
Total                                   39.9            22.3
of which has been repaid:
Total now held by IDA 2/                39.9
Total undisbursed                                       22.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
In 1975, IFC approved a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory,
which has not yet been signed; no other loans have been made so far.
1/   Including a supplementary credit of US$9.5 million made in November 1975.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 196-RW   Kigali-Gatuna Project; US$9.3 million credit of June 17,
1970; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977;
US$9.5 million supplementary credit of December 19, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Construction works were interrupted in April 1975 because of a cost
overrun amounting to about US$16.0 milion, including a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$13.7 million. In addition to the subsequent US$9.5 million
supplementary IDA credit, of which US$8.7 million is earmarked for the com-
pletion of the Kigali-Gatuna Road, the Saudi Fund for Development has
agreed to co-finance the cost overrun with a loan of US$5.0 million. The
supplemental IDA credit became effective on February 8, 1976 and the Saudi
loan was signed in February 1976. Construction works were resumed in January
1976, with completion expected by mid-1977.
Credit No. 299-RW   Highway Maintenance Project; US$3.0 million credit
of April 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Delays in project implementation have resulted in cost increases
for equipment, spare parts and materials. The supplementary IDA credit
mentioned above included US$0.8 million to help finance these costs increases.
The cost of technical assistance, for which UNDP contributed a US$1.1 million
grant, has also increased. As a result, the UNDP grant will be exhausted
about 9 months before the consultants' contractual period terminates on
December 31, 1976, and an additional US$260,000 will be needed to keep the
consultants in the country for the period originally envisaged. As UNDP will
be unable to provide additional funds this year,   the Government and the Bank
Group have agreed to use part of the proceeds of the supplemental IDA credit
to finance the technical assistance.
Credit No. 434-RW   Agricultural Development Project; US$3.8 million credit
of November 29, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implementation began about a year behind schedule because of
delays in selecting a suitable consulting firm to assist in project execution.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the solutions taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Various difficulties have since been encountered, particularly in recruiting
staff and in defining the project area. In a large area spontaneous settle-
ment has ocetrred before project implementation was underway, thus restrain-
ing the possibilities for organized settlement as envisaged in the project.
On the other hand, plots prepared for organized settlement have not yet been
allocated as potential settlers are unwilling to sign settlement contracts
which require settlers to pay fees after an initial period of four years.
In addition, project cost has increased from US$4.3 million to US$7.0
million, mainly as a result of worldwide price increases. In view of these
problems, the project was reviewed in depth in November 1975 and disCussioOns
were held with the Government on the future course of action. The project Ls
now being revised, which is likely to entail a reduction in scope of some of
its components in order to remain within the amount of the funds available in
the credit. This revision will also take into account the implementation of
the irrigation project in the same area financed by Canada. Coordinat[on with
regard to the implementation of both projects will be continued in tlle future
by all parties concerned.
Credit No. 475-RW   Ruheneri-Giseniyi Road Construction (Third Highway) Projectj
US$6.3 million credit of March 27, 1974;
Date oi Effectiveness:   June 5, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1977
The start of construction was postponed for about 4 months to prmLLt
supervising consultants to complete detailed engineering. Slow contractor's
mobilization added to the delays. Completion of the project is now expectt-d
hy August 1976, about 15 months behind schedule.   Costs are expected Lo re-
maLn within the originial estimates.
Credit No. 567-RW    Education Project; US$8.0 million credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
ProjecL execution has sLarted satisfactorily.   Construct oui ,f the
school and financing unit and the printshop is being prepared,
and staffing of the unit is well underway. Locations for the workshops to
be constructed under the project are being determined.    Other financing
sources have agreed to finance various items Lncluded in the project.    The
Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to provide all printing eqtuipmnllt for
the printshop, while UNDP will finance the technical assistants Lo bh re-
cruited through UNESCO. The credit funds thus released will be reallocated
to construction of additional workshops or other related project ite1as.



ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA - RWANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiary:         Rwanda Development Bank (BRD)
Amount:               US$4.0  million equivalent
Terms:                Standard
Onlending Terms:     1.   The Government would onlend'the proceeds of the
IDA credit to BRD for a period substantially in
conformity with the aggregate of the amortiza-
tion schedules of the subloans, but not exceed-
ing 20 years in the case of tourism projects,
and 15 years in the case of all other loans or
investments, with interest at 4 percent per annum.
2. BRD would relend the proceeds at an effective cost
to the sub-borrower of not less than 7 percent to
small-scale enterprises, and not less than 9 per-
cent to medium- and large-scale enterprise. Amor-
tization would be over a period of up to 20 years,
including appropriate grace periods, depending on
the nature of the sub-projects.
3. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government.
Project
Description:        The project would assist in financing:
(i) BRD's foreign exchange requirements for
its development finance operations through
mid-1978; and
(ii) Audits of BRD's accounts for 1976, 1977 and 1978.
Final Date for
Sub-Project
Submission:        December 31, 1978



ANNEX III
Page 2
Free Limit:          US$100,000 for individual sub-loans with an aggregate
limit of US$1 million.
Debt Covenant:       Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
Procurement:         Through normal commercial channels.
Estimated                                                        CumulatLve
Disbursements:            Fiscal Year       US$ Million       US$ Million
1977              0.4                 0.4
1978              1.2                 1.6
1979              1.4                 3.0
1980              1.0                 4.0
Technical
Assistance:               BRD woul-d provide technical assistance to all its
clients.  Technical assistance financed under the
project would amount'to about one percenitage point
of BRD's spread.
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign
Resources       Resources         Total
(RwF million)
Sources
Resources available for commitments
as of January 1, 1976                   15               7               22
Resources to be obtained:
KflJ (expected)                          -             110              110
CCCE (expected)                          -             100              100
IDA (US$4.0 million)                     -             368             368
Othier foreign loans                     -              40               40
Government                              75               -               75
Oash flow from operations
(January 1976 - June 1978)              65               _              65
'I'otal resources available for com-
mitments from January 1976 through
mid-1973                               155             625              780
Uses
Projected commitments through mid-1978:
Loans                                   65             625              690
Equity Investments                      90               -               90
ToLal Uses                               155             625              780



ANNEX III
Page 3
Projected Operations             1975         1976     1977     1978    1979    1980
(in RwF million)
Loans
CommiLments                   148          245      286     321      363     420
Disbursements                 107          185      252      296     335     409
EquiLy Participations
Commitments and
Disbursements                  37           35       35       39      40      40
Projected Financial
Statements:
CurrenL Assets                   92           40       68       94      93     112
Net Loan PortfolLo              433          598      831    1,084   1,338    1,615
Other AsseLs                      3            2         1       1       1        1
Total Assets                  528          640      900    1,179   1,432   1,728
Current Liab L Ities             20           20       20       20      20      20
Long-term Borrowings            279          382      629      785   1,013   1,280
Provisions for Rent                4           4        4        4       4        4
Equity                          225          234      247      370     395     423
Total Liabilities and
Net Worth                   528          640      900    1,179   1,432   1,728
Debt/Equity RaLto:                 1.2         1.6      2.5      2.1     2.6      3.0
Projected Net Earnings            9.3          8.8     13.5     18.6    25.2     29.3
As Percentage of
Average Net Worth:            4.3          3.8      5.6      6.0     6.6      7.2
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 1008a-RW, dated June 24, 1976;
Development Finance Companies Department.
nap:                      No. IBRD 3596R



2                                                    30I         Mborwru a K-npaIl
RWANDA                                      j
POPULATION       DENSITY, 1974                                   u  G A   N  D A                        K/k   /-bo
Inhabitants per KM2:                 R.tsh-
Over-300
200- 299
.0                                                                                                 TANZANIA
3Lrss.r ..ri. 99                   AEPUBlNANiA
.-Z732 Rivers and lakes              .                           1          ' '      4
-  Main roads . ..                              ~ '~.   
----Prefecture Cboundaries                                                                           A
_-.-Internationaf boundaries.
704f,                                                                          B  A          -- 
_ U
i    /    z VG | ~~~-S-, E N Y1-)<8xg                 \ 
AFR<   C//A                                                                     KE K/VUI(t % > K )G  A K  I  L  I  |
aRWANDA 0 /  ' r * \ 1 f 2 , >&Ro (\ K I B U N G O \ 2--
X J'  A    r )       _  J            X   '  7itararna     ^a1           < _ -  Z MvvesertorGrno 
y - ,_ / -' AJ ,J G I T\A ~~~~~~~R       A   M   A                       K(/ ibungote8∞
oMushub. ~ ~    ~      N~Cvhh     f.L. 
G(  I f   r~l G  K O N G                      N R     2    3   4     0   60 -0     0
Kabors        u                   Kb     /    Gikong,orS               1/j'       
- C Y A N G U G U ,U T A R Ey <<</J-5B U                                                  T A N Z A N I A
>vSZ8ugoromc \. ., 8 Buta      ut r                 B U R U N D I                  7h   "   r   1. J-l I-et/ ea, atb
) ;  \    %KX  )    PJ  )(      }8Sr   1-     ∞l   lga~~~~~~~~~t  210  310  4,0  50  6,0  r,o  80
/  -J                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS
REPUBLIC  OF                 \4                0_       -                                                                             - 
-.  B                                   o       iv ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o1   30  40  50
ZAIRE                     i''d     B U R U N D I                                      OL             I                    _,__JlvES  s  c
29    tS\                       |            tO



