CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 655 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(BRD Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 20, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to as-
sist in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Banque Rwandaise
de Developpement with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Banque Rwandaise
de Developpement the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
Od
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Banque Rvandaise de Dgveloppement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requ res, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BRD" means Banque Rwandaise de Dveloppement, established
by the Law of August 5, 1967, as amended by the Decree-Law of Octo-
ber 8, 1974, of the Borrower, and as said Law may be further amended
from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the As-
sociation and BRD of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BRD pursuant to Section 3.02


﻿-3-
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, if any;
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by BRD out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BRD under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as
so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to
the provisions of Section 2.03 (d) of this Agreement;
(e) "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by BRD in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to BRD under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BRD
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to
make or has made an investment, and "Small-scale Investment Enter-
prise" means an Investment Enterprise, as so defined, with Ci) net
assets (calculated as total assets minus amortization) of less than
RwF10,000,000; (ii) annual sales of less than RwF8,000,000; and
(iii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, less than
20 employees;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development project
to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a sub-loan or investment;
S1


﻿- 4-                                  0
(h) "Rwandese Franc" and the letters "RwF" mean the currency
of the Borrower;
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(j) "Statutes" means the Law of the Borrower of August 5,
1967 referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, as amended by
Decree-Law of October 8, 1974, of the Borrower, and as said Law
may be further amended from time to time;
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the Mot:.on de Politique Gene-
rale of BRD approved by the Botrd of Directors of BRD on January 20,
1975, and the PrinciDes d'Intervention de la BRD approved by the
Board of Directors of BRD on January 28, 1976, both as amended to    W
the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be further amended
from time to time in mutual agreement between the Association and
BRD; and
(1) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
voting stock is owned or effectively controlled by BRD or by any
one or more subsidiaries of BRD or by BRD and one or more of its
subsidiaries.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates BRD as its representative
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) The proceeds of the Credit relent to BRD
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account by BRD, acting on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement, as follows:
(i) subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) through
(f) of this Section, for amounts expended (or, if
the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet expenditures to be made)
by BRD for an Investment Project to finance the
reasonable cost of goods and services required
under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested; and


﻿(ii) for amounts expended in foreign currency (or, if
the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet expenditures to be made
in foreign currency) for the reasonable cost of
the services of auditing experts employed for the
purpose of the annual audits referred to in Section
3.02 (i) of the Project Agreement for the fiscal
years 1976, 1977 and 1978.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section shall be authorized in respect of:
(i) expenditures in a foreign currency for goods or
services supplied from outside the territory of
the Borrower;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of ex-
penditures in Rwandese Francs for goods supplied
from the territory of the Borrower but previously
imported into the territory of the Borrower through
normal trade channels; and
(iii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of ex-
penditures in Rwandese Francs on account of civil
works contracts carried out in the territory of
the Borrower;
(said percentage representing in each case the estimated foreign
expenditure component).


﻿7
(c) No withdrawal shall be made pursuant to paragraph (a) (i)
of this Section, unless the sub-loan or investment in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested (i) shall have been approved by
the Association, or (ii) shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which
the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(d) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $100,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such
Investment Project, or (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to
all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made pursuant to paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section on account of expenditures made by an Invest-
ment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Associa-
tion's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expendi-
tures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information
required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿-8-
(f) No withdrawals shall be made pursuant to paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section, until (i) the Association shall have obtained
all information regarding the accounts of BRD necessary to evaluate
the financial condition and the portfolio of BRD; and (ii) the
Statement of Policy shall have been amended in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1986 and ending June 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BRD in
financing such productive facilities and resources in the territory
of the Borrower as will contribute to the economic and social de-
velopment of the country through loans to and investments in pro-
ductive enterprises in the territory of the Borrower for specific
development projects.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent in
Rwandese Francs of the proceeds of the Credit to BRD under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
BRD, at an interest rate of four per cent (4%) per annum on the
outstanding balance, and under such other terms and conditions as
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and BRD.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agret_ent in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall promptly make available to
BRD medium- and long-term loans in such amounts and at such times
as shall be required to finance the local cost component of In-est-
ment Projects. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the Associa-
tion, the aggregate principal amount of such loans from the date
* of this Agreement until June 30, 1978, shall be seventy-five million
Rwandese Francs (RwFT5,000,000).


﻿- 10-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any of its political
subdivisions, to take any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the performance by BRD of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall
be required on its part in order to enable BRD to perform such
obligations.
Section 4.02. Prior to any amendments to the Statutes, the
Borrower shall inform the Association of the amendments proposed
and shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to ex-
change views on the proposed amendments with the Borrower and BRD.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BRD under the Project Agreement;
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BRD
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accord-
ance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(c) the Statutes shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
BRD;
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BRD, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would materially and adversely affect the conduct
of BRD's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(e) BRD shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BRD
or by others whereby any of the assets of BRD shall or may be dis-
tributed among its creditors; and


﻿- 12                                       0
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BRD or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and BRD; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Con-
ditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BRD
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BRD, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed on behalf of, BRD, and is legally bind-
ing upon BRD in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, the Borrower and
BRD, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
BRD in accordance with its terms.


﻿-14-
Section 6.03. The date of November 18, 1976 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie
Boite Postale 158
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:
MINECOFI
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
0I


﻿- 16                                       0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s/ Tharcisse Gatwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-17 -
SCHEDULE
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in Section 2.02(e) of the Project Agree-
ment no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or
having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after
the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwith-
drawn from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of BRD to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account on behalf of the Borrower, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit
shall be cancelled."


