Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20756
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(26440)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR
FOR A SECOND IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 30, 2001
Rural Development 2
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = MALAGASY FRANC
FMG I = US$ 0.000151
US$ I = FMG 6551
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                  French Development Agency (Agence Frangaise de Developpement)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
EDF                  European Development Fund
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GoM                  Goverment of Madagascar
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MoA                  Ministry of Agriculture
O&M                  Operations and Maintenance
PAE                  Environment Support Project (Projet d'Appui A l'Environnement)
PNVA                 Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
(Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole)
PPI                  Small Scale Irrigation (Programme Pdrimetres Irrigues)
PSR                  Project Status Report
RSDP                 Rural Sector Development Program
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
WUG                  Water Users'Associations
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:    Ousmane Seck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry 
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                             15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank'and Borrower Performance                                      22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1522                                     Project Name: IRRIGATION II
Team Leader: Ousmane Seck                                TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: April 3, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: IRRIGATION II                                 L/C/TF Number: 26440
Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 03/31/88                                 Effective: 12/14/94           12/14/94
Appraisal:  03/19/93                                 MTR: 07/29/97              07/29/97
Approval:  07/12/94                               Closing: 06/30/2000          09/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF MADAGASCAR/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hafez Ghanem                              Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Nils Tcheyan
Team Leader at ICR:   Ousmane Seck                            Christopher Trapman
ICR Primary Author:  Ijsbrand H. de Jong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objectives were: (a) promoting growth by increasing agricultural output through better water
management and expanded agricultural extension; (b) reducing poverty by improving productivity to
increase both rural incomes and food security; (c) enhancing environmental management by developing
techniques for assessing environmental irrigation rehabilitation works and improving local assessment
capacity; and (d) strengthening project implementation capacity by transferring management of irrigation
schemes to water users.



Both the Second Irrigation Project (PPI-2) and its predecessor the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (PPI-1)
were inspired by high recurring Government expenditures on operation and maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation schemes under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (approximately 270,000 hectares
in 1985). For example, in 1985, at the start of PPI-1, half of the operational budget of the Ministry of
Agriculture was allocated for O&M of these schemes. In 1994, at the start of PPI-2, half of the Ministry's
investment budget was allocated for rehabilitating irrigation schemes.
In addition, the PPI-2 was undertaken because long-term donor contributions to irrigation rehabilitation
failed to have an impact on production and productivity levels in irrigated agriculture, and had not
achieved sustainable irrigation O&M. Rehabilitated irrigation schemes continued to require government
O&M assistance. High levels of expenditure continued to be needed for rehabilitation, because of lack of
maintenance, high erosion and sedimentation levels, and recurrent cyclones and flooding. Accordingly,
the PPI-2 project aimed to transfer O&M of selected irrigation schemes to Water User Groups (WUGs),
to promote sustainable irrigation and reduce dependence of irrigation schemes on government O&M
funds. Farmers, organized in WUGs, were to operate and manage their own irrigation schemes, with the
Government acting as service provider. This was to be facilitated by infrastructure investments in better
water management, following a 'participatory and progressive' approach.
The participatory and progressive approach is spelled out in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
and distinguishes three phases. During the first phase, water users define, through detailed studies, the
works to be executed during subsequent phases, by themselves and by contractors. The efforts of water
users serve as indicators of their long-term commitment to O&M. When the commitment of water users
has been demonstrated, the second phase can begin during which a plan for agricultural development
and the different stages of irrigation rehabilitation is formulated. A detailed design of the rehabilitation
works that are beyond the capacity of the water users is prepared. Finally, during the third phase, works
are carried out by water users and contractors, respectively. The contribution of water users determines if
further works will be executed by the contractor.
In the SAR, the savings. to the Government of Madagascar (GoM) of the irrigation management transfer
were estimated at USD 500,000 per year. In order to ensure the sustainability of the transfer, the SAR
recognized that the following issues, among others, had to be addressed: developing local capacity and
training of WUGs to ensure proper management, implementing environmental works to reduce
maintenance needs, and expanding extension to increase the capacity of farmers to cover O&M costs.
Under PPI-1 and PP;-2, 43,710 ha out of 270,000 ha originally under Govemment O&M responsibility
have been rehabilitated and transferred to WUGs. O&M of the balance of (270,000 - 43,710 =) 226,290
ha still remains Government responsibility. Government expenditures on O&M of irrigation schemes are
therefore still high. The objective of transferring O&M responsibility and scheme ownership to WUGs is
therefore still appropriate and in line with the Government strategy for the sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
During a 1996 supervision mission, large scale irrigation was included in the project, and project
coverage was expanded from the initially identified nine zones to the national level. Land security was
added as activitiy, as well as outsourcing of WUG mobilization to NGOs. This was done in view of the
slow disbursement of the project, and to increase its impact. In September 1998, funds were set aside for
financing emergency activities to control the outbreak of migratory locusts which had infested almost
four-fifths of the country.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of six components:
(a) consolidating the rehabilitation and transfering O&M responsibilities for 16,000 hectars of irrigation
schemes rehabilitated during the first project, including emergency repairs of cyclone damages; (b)
assessing and executing environmental protection works to ensure the sustainability of rehabilitated
irrigation schemes, including preparing guidelines for emergency rehabilitation works; (c) rehabilitating
4,000 hectars of new irrigated schemes; (d) strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's extension, rural
- 2 -



works and programming and planning services, at the provincial, district and local levels to improve local
supervision of rehabilitation efforts and to support the WUGs; (e) training of project staff and farmers
with an emphasis on developing local capacity to ensure sustainable activities for subsequent phases of
PPI-2; and (f) monitoring and evaluation of project impact and verification of accounts.
3.4 Revised Components:
During a 1996 supervision mission, the project was reorganized. Rehabilitation and O&M transfer of
large-scale schemes, as well as national coverage of the project, was included in order to improve the
project's impact. In addition, the issue of improving land security was included to facilitate management
transfer to WUGs, as well as to take away an impediment to implementation of environmental activities.
In September 1998, 4.21 million USD were set aside for financing emergency activities to control an
outbreak of migratory locusts.
3. 5 Quality at Entry:
PPI-2 built on the results and recommendabons of PPI-1. The project's objectives were also consistent
with the Bank CAS and with Government priorities.
The project became effective in December 1994, and focused on the emergency repair works after the
four 1994 cyclones. At the same time, the project worked on the elaboration of an intervention strategy.
However, project disbursement was slow during the first two years. This was mainly related to the long
time that the project had spent on elaborating the participatory intervention strategy, and the
unpredictability of the outcome of such a strategy. The project was consequently reorganized to increase
project impact by (i) no longer exclusively focusing on medium-sized schemes but also on large-scale
schemes, and (ii) by enlarging the coverage of the project to the entire country.
The slow initial disbursement and subsequent reorganization of the project raises a number of issues
related to the quality at entry. The key question that can be asked is why the project was reorganized for
reasons of slow disbursement. While the 'participatory and progressive' project approach provided a
sound framework for employing participatory infrastructure delivery as a vehicle for mobilizing WUGs,
this process depended to a large extent on beneficiary commitment. Project outcomes of participatory
processes are notoriously unpredictable and need appropriate, flexible and demand-driven funding
operations to ensure that the level of commitment of stakeholders determine the pace of investments,
and not whether or not disbursement is delayed. It is felt that a more flexible project disbursement
schedule could have assisted the project in preventing that disbursements considerations determine
project activities.
In addition, project outcomes were impacted by the absence of cohesion in the SAR between the
different sectors involved in agricultural growth. Links between irrigation, extension, watershed
management, market access and input supply were to a large degree fortuitous and not part of a holistic
approach. In fact, extension and environmental activities were covered by separate projects (PNVA and
PAE, respectively), and collaboration between the three projects was not very effective in the first years
of project implementation. Although reference is made in the SAR to the extension and environmental
project, no strong mechanism for collaboration or coordination of activities between the three projects
was identified. Activities to improve market access and input supply have not received a systematic
treatment in the SAR.
This resulted in a negative impact on the sustainability of project outcomes. The Quality at Entry of the
project is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Performance indicators were established in the SAR and reviewed during the first supervision mission. A
summary is presented in Annex 1. Performance indicators were not revised throughout the existence of
the project. For a discussion on their relevance, see section 4.2.f. An extemal impact evaluation of the
- 3 -



project was carried out as part of the Government contribution to the ICR (see Annex 7).
Although the project suffered from delays during the first two years of its existence, disbursements and
acreage covered by rehabilitation significantly increased following the 1996 supervision mission. At the
end of the project, a total of 25,295 hectares were rehabilitated, as compared to 20,000 hectares
foreseen in the SAR. An additional 15,385 ha, already covered by the PPI-1 project, received further
support following them 1994 cyclones. Variation orders were executed on an additional 3,030 hectares,
also covered under the PPI-1 project.
(a) Promoting growth by increasing agricultural output through better water management and
intensified agricultural extension. This objective has been achieved. Between 1994 and 1999, main
season rice yields in rehabilitated schemes increased by an average of 36%, from 2.2 tons per hectare to
3.0 tons per hectare, close to the target of 3.3 tons per hectare. Weighed average adoption rates of
improved rice technologies amounted to 53%. The area under improved water management covered
25,295 hectares at project completion, more than the target of 20,000 hectares. The average main
season production amounted to 75,885 tons, as compared to the SAR target of 66,000 tons. More than
three quarters of the area that was rehabilitated had irrigation of good or average quality. Acreage of dry
season rice and other cultures increased by close to 4,000 hectares and 1,000 hectares, respectively.
Actual cropping intensity equaled the target of 1.3 on average, as compared to 1.0 at project start.
(b) Reducing poverty by improving rural incomes and food security. The objective has been
achieved. The average income increase from agriculture in schemes that benefited from project
interventions was estimated at 203 US$/hectare. Food security was marginally improved through an
increase in non-rice coverage of close to 1,000 hectares.
(c) Enhancing environmental management by developing techniques for assessing
environmental irrigation rehabilitation works and improving local assessment capacity. This
objective was partly achieved. An Environmental Unit was created in 1994 at the level of the Rural
Works Directorate, and later directly linked to the project. In addition, local capacity for environmental
assessment was reinforced through the establishment of 15 Regional Environmental Offices (at the level
of the regional project offices) and 64 Local Environmental Units (at scheme level) in 1997. A guide for
environmental appraisal of irrigation rehabilitation programs was published by the project in 1996.
Government officers received training in environmental protection and techniques, including
environmental diagnosis, agro-forestry, watershed development, environmental protection of hydraulic
structures and development of agro-biological sites for improved soil fertility management.
Agro-biological experiments were conducted to demonstrate how to increase rice production levels by
greater use of organic manure in rice fields. These demonstrations made clear that with simple tools
(covering fields with straw, minimum tillage, plowing under straw), lowland rice production increased to
11-14 tons per hectare, upland rice yield could increase by up to 600%, and variability of yields could
decrease by up to 300%. The number of farmers adopting the recommended technology was very low
because the new technology required more cash (up to 300% more) and more labor (around 35% more)
as compared to more traditional practices.
However, throughout project implementation but in particular following the expansion of project activities
to large scale schemes, it became clear that environmental issues related to sustainable irrigation
development needed to be addressed in a more comprehensive way. In fact, the opposite occured and
project objectives were not amended to reinforce local capacity to increase project impact on the
environment. In the end, the impact of environmental activities was just too small to make a difference.
Interestingly, and contrary to the claim that the environmental component failed to make an impact
because of the limited budget allocation, only 30% of the budget line related to this objective was
disbursed.
(d) Strengthening project implementation capacity by establishing operational procedures for
transfering management of schemes to water users. This objective has been achieved. Procedures
for management transfer were established and implemented by the project. At project completion, 148
-4 -



WUGs undertook O&M activities. This responsibility was taken over from Government by these WUGs
since project start. Out of these 148, only 14 WUGs have benefited from actual irrigation management
transfer. This low number of 14 WUGs having benefitted from formal irrigation transfer (not to be
confused with the 148 WUGs actually undertaking O&M works) is related to slow registration procedures
and the relatively late signing of an agreement between the project and the Ministry of Land. This in turn
was due to the fact that priority was given (rightly so) to de facto O&M capability, and that formal O&M
transfer came more as an after thought. The Ministry of Land had not been involved in the project. At
project completion, Government capacity to continue the process of irrigation management transfer has
been strengthened by the establishment of operational procedures. These include informal
strengthening, training and exchange visits, as well as the more formal part of registering WUGs.
(e) Locust control. Following the invasion of four-fifths of Madagascar by locusts, USD 4.21 million was
allocated in 1999 to contribute to the financing of emergency activities to control the outbreak of
migratory locusts. The locust control program, executed by the National Committee for the Fight against
Locusts, came to an end in late 2000, when the problem was under control.
In conclusion, project outcomes were generally achieved. However, the sustainability of irrigation O&M
remains a concem, a conclusion similar to the one that was reached at completion of PPI-1 and that
inspired the PPI-2 preparation process (see section 6). The rating is therefore satisfactory. This is based
on the following assessment:
*  the target acreage rehabilitated was exceeded;
*  the rehabilitation strategy was a sound example of participatory infrastructure delivery with the aim to
mobilize WUGs for taking responsbility for O&M;
*  productivity levels increased and were close to target levels, total production exceeded the target
production, the cropping intensity met its target of 1.3, and adoption rates of new rice production
technologies were satisfactory;
*  the locust control objectives were met with the recent termination of the locust emergency activities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As mentioned above, the overall assessment is satisfactory. By project components, the assessments
are as follows:
(a) Consolidation of rehabilitation and transfer of O&M responsibilities on 16,000 hectares of
irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the first phase project, including emergency repairs of
damages caused by cyclones. This component was successful mostly in tenms of acreage. In total
15,385 hectares were rehabilitated following the devastation of the 1994 cyclones. The total costs of the
operation amounted to USD 1.8 million, or USD 117 per hectare (as compared to USD 207 per hectare
in the SAR). Larger scale schemes benefited from lower per hectare investments as compared to smaller
scale schemes (e.g., Analavory (140 ha) with 740 USD per hectare, as compared to Soavina (1,200 ha)
with 35 USD per hectare). Transfer of O&M responsibilities was not fully achieved and the 148 WUGs
that were created and received assistance were, at project completion, not fully able to carry out O&M in
a sustainable way. This will be discussed in section 6.
(b) Assessment and execution of the environmental protection works needed to ensure
sustainability of rehabilitated irrigation schemes, including the preparation of guidelines for
implementating emergency rehabilitation works. The Environmental Guide prepared by the project
assisted in assessing environmental works needed for the sustainability of irrigation schemes. A variety
of environmental protection works were implemented. These included the establishment of nurseries for
vetiver and azolla, planting trees and other plants to reduce erosion, and fertilizer tests. Environmental
protection works to enhance irrigation infrastructure achieved some localized successes (vetiver
planting), but the component failed in general to have an impact on the sustainability of the irrigation
schemes. A number of causes were identified in successive PSRs: (i) the fact that the scale of
environmental degradation exceeded the implementation and analytical capacity of the project (e.g.,
forest fires), (ii) environmental protection does not only depend on training and sensitization, but also on
an appropriate institutional context, in particular with respect to land tenure, and on the concerted effort
- 5 -



of all involved (iii) the scope of the environmental works was not modified when, at the time of the 1996
supervision mission, it was decided to include large scale schemes in the project. On many occasions,
project activities related to environmental protection remained isolated attempts (sometimes only
measurng a few square meters) to control erosion in watersheds of several thousands of hectares. Not
surprisingly, the negligible results and high labor investments discouraged farmers from undertaking
additional environmental protection works.
(c) Rehabilitation of 4,000 hectares of new irrigation schemes. This component exceeded by far its
target. In total, 25,295 hectares have been rehabilitated. In addition, the costs per hectare are markedly
lower than foreseen at the time of appraisal (154 USD per hectare as compared to the originally foreseen
1,778 USD per hectare). The reasons are:
*  The scope of works was smaller and corresponded to only one cycle of the participatory and
progressive approach. Full implementation of all works for a per hectare amount that would
correspond to the one anticipated in the SAR, would only occur after several cycles of participatory
and progressive project approach.
*   Overall average investments were distorted because per hectare investments in large-scale
schemes were generally lower than per hectare investments in small-scale schemes (e.g.,
Ranomena Iboaka (252 ha) with a per hectare investment of 1,800 USD or Reambe (94 ha) with
1,624 USD per hectare, as compared to Sahamaloto (6,937 ha) with 72 USD per hectare and Anony
(10,100 ha) with 147 USD per hectare).
(d) Strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's agricultural extension, rural works and
programming and planning services, at the provincial, district and local levels in order to
improve local supervision of the rehabilitation and the support to the creation and performance
of WUGs. This component was successful in general. After the reorganization of the project, all project
activities were implemented through the regional directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, including
Rural Works and Extension. These regional directorates operated with their own decentralized
operational project budget. Regional Environmental Offices were established at regional project office
and scheme level and were reinforced through training and technical assistance from the center. These
offices were strenathened by gaining experience from implementation of activities.
However, in contrast lo programming and planning of project activities, launching of bids and selection of
contractors remained comparatively centralized. In many cases, civil works were outsourced to
contractors from the c, pital whereas competent local contractors were available for at least some works.
Further strengthening of provincial and district capacity could have been achieved by outsourcing civil
works in a decentralized manner. This would have accelerated administrative procedures, reinforced the
development of small local contractors and assisted in strengthening the decentralized Rural Works
Directorate.
(e) Training of project staff and farmers on developing local capacity and talents to ensure
sustainable activities for subsequent phases of PPI-2. Project staff were trained in agricultural policy,
project management, administration, finance and procurement, organization of farmers, participatory
appro3ches and environmental diagnostics, techniques and protection. Farmers were trained in SRI,
cropping practices, soil fertility management and composting, cultivation of dry season crops,
management of WUGs, administration and bookkeeping. National and international study tours were
organized. Government staff of regional directorates were trained in bidding procedures. The impact of
training has been largely positive, in particular the national level exchange visits between farmers and
WUGs.
(f) Monitoring and evaluation of project impact and verification of accounts. Project monitoring and
evaluation was done satisfactorily. Budget expenditures on this line item far exceeded budget allocations
(see Annex 2). A large number of performance indicators on WUGs progress and performance were
monitored, including membership, payment of O&M fees, labor contributions to O&M, and contribution to
investment costs. However, the valuation of the farmers' contribution and heir maintenance work was not
always done in a systematic way. E.g., conflicting data were used on the value of one labor day.
- 6 -



Many other performance indicators as identified in the SAR appeared not to be appropriate for the
project, for example: 'irrigation area fully managed by water user groups' was a performance indicator,
but there is no indication of what was understood by 'fully managed', nor was there any attempt to define
this; 'volume of incremental triticale production' was a performance indicator, but the project never
seems to have taken any particular measures to increase production of this crop, and no production data
were collected. In addition, no output indicators were developed or monitored.
(g) Locust Control. Following the invasion of four-fifths of Madagascar by locusts, USD 4.21 million was
allocated in 1999 to contribute to the financing of emergency activities to control the outbreak of
migratory locusts. Expenditures were made to purchase insecticides and materials, rent airplanes, and
pay services and part of the administrative budget of the National Committee for the Fight against
Locusts. Out of the funds allocated by the PPI-2 project to purchase insectides, 785,798 USD of have
been spent on Fipronil, 532,550 USD on Deltamethrne, 458,903 on Propoxur and 278,648 USD on other
pesticides. No information was available on the expenditures for other items under the locust control
program.
The relevant Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement specified the environmental concerns
that the Borrower needed to respect. This included a prohibition on spraying insecticides in
environmentally sensitive areas, use of quick knock-down and low persistence insecticides, mitigation of
safety and health risks, and monitoring and evaluation of the impact on fauna and flora and of safety of
handling operations. In this respect, use of Fipronil has received criticism in view of its relatively low
knock-down effect, its high persistance and therefore its impact on non-targetted populations, in
particular insectivores and, as a secondary threat, their predators. It has been recommended to no longer
use Fipronil as full cover or barrier spray.
The program was implemented in full cooperation with all donors. This financing contributed to
controlling the invasion (that risked compromising the results of the on-going operations in the
Agricultural and Livestock sector). An audit of the expenditures under this budget line raised issues
related to sole source purchases made prior to the non-objection of a procurement accredited staff
member. However, there have been no cases of misprocurement.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the project calculated at appraisal was 27%, based on a cost/benefit
stream over 10 years. The ERR calculation considered all the investments under the first PPI as sunk
costs and hence did not include any of this initial investment costs. As part of an impact evaluation of
irrigated perimeters, conducted in the year 2000 by independent consultants, some ERR calculations
were made for about 10 perimeters rehabilitated under both PPI 1 and PPI 2. These ERR calculations
included the costs of the PPI rehabilitation (excluded from the SAR calculations). Their estimates show
rates of return of between -5 to 23 percent with only two out of the 10 rehabilitated schemes obtaining an
ERR of 20% or more. Close to 40% of the schemes show
an ERR of more than 14%, and 60% of the schemes have an ERR above 10%. Apart from these
individual perimeter ERRs there has been no separate calculation of an ERR for the project as a whole.
It is difficult to compare the ERR calculated in the SAR with those estimated as part of the impact
evaluation even though the impact evaluation ERRs give a good base for estimating the impact of the
investments. Using the same assumption used in the SAR that the initial PPI investments were sunk
costs, the ERRs calculated by the independent consultants would have been considerably higher than
what they found. Thus comparing the ERR calculated at appraisal and those at completion (using the
same methodology) one could conclude that returns were satisfactory though the appraisal ERR
calculation may have underestimated the costs.
The external evaluation also revealed that the relationship between investments and returns is not linear.
For example, some small works can solve a problem crucial to overall scheme functioning and thus
decrease the time needed to bring total investments to maturity. Programming and prioritizing
rehabilitation works therefore are important instruments to increase returns on investments, in particular
in view of the progressive character of the project approach.
- 7 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest. The positive results that were
achieved are as follows:
1. VWUGs were established for all schemes that were rehabilitated. All 148 WUGs thus established or
now responsible for O&M, all WUGs undertake at least some of the O&M work, and some show an
excellent performance. The sustainability of the WUGs is discussed in section 6;
2. Programming and planning activities were implemented by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry
of Agriculture, including Rural Works and Extension, and Regional Environmental Offices,
established under the project. All of the above benefited from training and technical assistance. This
experience is of particular importance in view of the continued process of decentralization in
Madagascar, and the need to create decentralized programming and planning capacity;
3. Following the reorganization at the time of the 1996 supervision mission, project activities were
outsourced to NGOs and private sector, in particular mobilization of WUGs, civil works and land
titling. In view of the importance of private sector involvement in sustainable irrigation development,
this outsourcing is a crucial contribution to local capacity building; and
4. Project M&E was conducted in a satisfactory way.
At the same time, the project had some negative institutional development impacts, or failed to have any
positive effects:
1. Notwithstanding extensive training, WUGs appear only able to assume responsibility for O&M in a
sustainable way to a limited extend (see section 6 for further details);
2. Although decentralized units played an important role in the conduct of studies and preparation of
documents, the actual launching of bids and selection of contractors remained a relatively
centralized opetation, more so than the quality of local contractors justified.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Due to the invasion of four-fifths of Madagascar by locusts, USD 4.21 million was allocated in 1999 to
contribute to the financing of emergency activities to control the outbreak of migratory locusts.
Another factor outside the control of the government was the occurrence during the 1999/2000 rainy
season of three cyclones that caused severe damage in a number of schemes that were rehabilitated
under the project. In total, 22 schemes were damaged, covering a total area of over 9,000 hectares. The
rehabilitation works were estimated to cost USD 2.3 million but, due to lack of project funds, they have
not been executed under PPI-2. IDA released supplementary credit after PPI completion.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the risks that was identified at the project start was that without extension, production levels
would not increase, as has happened during the first project. Measures were therefore taken to
encourage extension staff to deliver extension service in rehabilitated schemes. In practice, however,
extension staff suffered from a lack of motivation due to delays in payment of salaries of non-permanent
staff. The collaboration between PNVA and PPI was in the beginning of the two projects characterized by
competition, rather than teamwork. This did improve towards the end of the projects.
Finally, rapid erosion of O&M recovery rates resulted from, among other things, a lack of legal incentives
to take appropriate action against defaulters. This has played a role in the often weak performance of
WUGs. The need to enact appropriate legislation is therefore of paramount importance for WMJGs
establishment and proper functioning.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 8-



During the first two years of its existence, the project spent excessive time on the establishment of an
intervention strategy, the key elements of which were already elaborated in significant detail in the SAR.
In the end, the strategy as developed by the project missed crucial elements, including in particular:
* A strategy for withdrawal from the villages, with successive benchmarks for withdrawal discussed
with stakeholders at the start of the intervention. This would have avoided situations in a number of
schemes in which, the project had difficulty in 'cutting the umbilical cord' with WUJGs, thereby
involuntarily perpetuating and deepening the dependence of these WUGs on the project;
* A strategy for implementing the three year's participatory and progressive intervention strategy
towards the end of the project, when there was insufficient time to carry out the full cycle.
One category of delays in project implementation involved the official transfer of responsibility for O&M
and ownership of irrigation and drainage infrastructure to WUGs, because the Ministry of Land delayed
issuing titles to benefiting WUGs. This resulted from the fact that formal O&M transfer (as opposed to de
facto capability for O&M) was not part of the project, and hence the Ministry of Land was not officially
involved, nor properly facilitated. Long delays in adopting a modus operandi resulted from administrative
problems and limited operational capacity at the level of the Ministry of Land. As a consequence, only 14
out of 148 WUGs officially benefited from formal irrigation management transfer at project completion.
Similar considerations apply to the issuing of ownership titles to users following the 1996 supervision
mission to strengthen the impact of environmental activities. Administrative delays of over. 24 months in
the responsible Ministry have resulted in only 220 users having received 529 titles for 130 hectares,
concentrated in just one scheme. As before, this was related to the oversight of the Ministry of Lands as
partner in this process, and the resulting lack of facilitation.
According to the Credit Agreement of the Project, a study was planned to propose guidelines for the
creation, financing and operation of a permanent emergency rehabilitation fund to deal with damage
caused to irrigation schemes as a result of natural disasters. However, this study was never done. When
the Terms of Reference of the study were drafted, there was insufficient time to conduct it, and the study
was therefore cancelled.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of appraisal, the cost of the project was estimated at 25.7 M USD, with an IDA contribution of
21.2 M USD, a beneficiary contribution of 1.7 M USD, and a Government contribution of 2.8 M USD. The
latest cost is 24.5 M USD, financed by 20.4 M USD from the IDA credit, 0.6 M USD from the
beneficiaries, and 3.5 M USD from the Government. This includes the amounts allocated to locust
control and cyclone relief works (see Annex 2 for details).
6. Sustainability
61 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
This section discusses the sustainability of the project. Project sustainability was negatively affected by
the following factors:
* the decision to include large-scale schemes, and the fact that the validity of the participatory and
progressive approach is questionable for larger-scale schemes;
* similarly, the environmental sustainability was compromised by the inclusion of large-scale schemes;
* the allocation of project funds to locust control;
* the occurrence of cyclones in 1999;
* the absence of a time frame for the intervention, and the subsequent perpetuation of project
assistance to WVUGs;
* long delays in official O&M transfer and registration of land, as a consequence of a lack of
involvement of the Ministry of Land;
* the weak level of upfront contribution and O&M costs;
* the fact that most schemes have only benefitted from the first cycle of the participatory and
progressive approach.
The rating for sustainability includes the following considerations: (i) the project approach, (ii) the
-9-



commitment of stakeholders to investing in improving water management, (iii) the functioning of WUGs
and (iv) the environmental sustainability.
(i) The participatory and progressive approach of the project is an excellent example of how irrigation
infrastructure delivery can be used as vehicle and incentive for WUG mobilization. It allows for a
step-by-step process, where project and WUG are in cooperation. It also allows for periodic progress
monitoring and evaluation by both parties, and is sufficiently flexible in case either one of them wants to
amend, accelerate, slow down or abandon the process. PPI-2 experimented with the question 'what is the
minimum investment in irrigation infrastructure sufficient to mobilize stakeholders to assume
responsibility for O&M?'
Other projects have often answered this question by assuming that only complete rehabilitation of
irrigation schemes and investments in the order of 5,000 USD per hectare were necessary to trigger
farmer mobilization for O&M. However, the PPI-2 has demonstrated that similar results can be obtained
with per hectare investments that are much lower. This is an important lesson for future irrigation
investment projects. Modest investments can create momentum for management transfer, on the
condition that they are accompanied by proper mobilization and training of farmers. This is evidenced by
the fact that at least some WUGs have achieved impressive results in terms of O&M. This suggests that,
in principle, the approach and the low overall investment levels can lead to sustainable results.
it should be pointed out, however, that the approach is likely to work better in small- to medium-sized
schemes, and probably less so in large-scale schemes. The scope of work should be visible to have an
impact on the water management of all members of the WUG so as to be an incentive for WUG
mobilization. It is questionable wether this is the case in large-scale schemes, in particular in view of the
very modest per hectare investments in these large-scale schemes. When the project decided to include
large-scale schemes, it should also have amended the investment approach towards WVUG mobilization.
(ii) An indicator for sustainability is the level of participation in investment costs. Up-front contributions
help convey the message that farmers own the scheme and are responsible for O&M, and screen
beneficiaries for genuine interest in assuming responsibility for O&M. On average, between 6% and 12%
of the rehabilitation works were financed through farmers' contributions. The level of these contributions
is nominal as comparad to similar projects elsewhere (e.g., in Mali, beneficiaries pay 25% upfront), will
only contribute marginally to a sense of ownership and will only screen beneficiary commitment to a
limited extent. Better rEsults in terms of sustainability would have been achieved with higher up-front
farmers' contribution to investment costs.
(iii) The extent to which WUGs were able to organize and conduct O&M on the rehabilitated
infrastructure is of key importance to achieving sustainable results. This sustainability is at risk if, during
project implementation, payment of irrigation water fees is not firmly and lastingly established at the
1 00% level. It is difficult to see how recovery of O&M fees would regain a sustainable level afterproject
completion, if recovery is significantly below that level during implementation. Recovery of O&M fees
scored generally low throughout project implementation, with only few positive exceptions for a small
number of schemes. The PSR report of June 15, 2000 calculates actual cost recovery at 59% for
recovery of maintenance costs, 65% for recovery of operational costs of the WUG and 75% for recovery
of manual maintenance costs, the balance being deferred maintenance. The total financial contribution is
on average on the order of USD 6 per hectare, excluding manually executed maintenance. The nominal
level of the fees (as compared to similar projects elsewhere (e.g., Mali: USD 85 per hectare), and as
compared to the benefits that beneficiaries derive from the investments) reinforces this argument. In
addition, proper O&M was estimated to cost between USD 23 and USD 38 per hectare (although some
questions have been raised whether this has been estimated correctly). With an average fee of USD 6
per hectare, it is evident that continued govemment support of maintenance will be unavoidable, even if
farmers pay 100%.
An additional issue that affected project sustainability is the fact that project assistance to schemes has
in some cases taken a long time to reach completion. These long delays were justified by the fact that
farmers were not yet capable of ensuring O&M sustainability. However, the result was often the opposite
- 1 0 -



of what was intended to be achieved: farmers were spoon fed and became used to outside assistance.
Paradoxically, thus, more financial means does not always mean higher sustainability, and it often even
means the contrary. Among the weakest WUGs under PPI-2 are those that saw project assistance
perpetuate.
A study to guide the establishment of a permanent emergency rehabilitation fund planned in the SAR
and intended to contribute to the development of a long-term approach to sustainable irrigation
intervention programs in Madagascar, was not conducted. This study was to address issues related to the
long-term reduction of aid dependence of the irrigated sector, of high relevance in view of Madagascar's
permanent exposure to cyclones. The fact that this study was not done is a missed opportunity to
contribute to the long-term sustainability of farmer-managed irrigation in Madagascar.
(iv) The environmental sustainability of the project remains questionable. Few results and few positive
impacts were achieved, and their replicability seems to be localized. The continuing environmental
degradation that affects almost all of the schemes will most likely endanger their long-term physical
integrity. In many cases, the scale of the degradation and sedimentation is beyond the financial means of
the farmers.
The outcomes therefore suggest that it is unlikely that the project's achievements, impressive as they
may be in terms of area coverage, are sustainable. In fact, out of 19 schemes analyzed in the external
evaluation, only five are rated as having a high level of functioning. The reasons for these results are
related to (a) the design of the SAR and (b) implementation and supervision.
(a) The SAR lacked a holistic approach towards sustainable agricultural development, including a
meaningful integration of extension and other ways to enhance production, watershed management and
irrigation. Extension activities were undertaken under a separate project (PNVA) resulting in an
inefficient communication and collaboration with PPI. Similar considerations apply to the collaboration
between PPI-2 and PAE. Most of the environmental protection works that needed to be undertaken in
order to protect schemes from erosion and sedimentation exceeded by far the capacity of local
populations, and in many cases consisted of not much more than a few square meters of vetiver in a
watershed of thousands of hectares. The unfavorable comparison of labor investments and retums failed
to trigger a self-propelled process of environmental protection.
In addition, the project approach and funding mechanism used were found to be inconsistent, in the
sense that the 'participatory and progressive' project approach depended to a large extent on beneficiary
commitment. Project activities needed flexible and demand-driven funding operations to avoid the
situation in which disbursement considerations determine project activities, and to ensure that the
stakeholders are in the driver's seat. As one of the options, the establishment of decentralized, flexible
and participatory rural investment funds (as discussed during the June 2000 watershed program
pre-identification mission) should have been considered in the SAR.
(b) With respect to implementation and supervision, the project was delayed by excessive time spent on
the elaboration of an intervention strategy, most details of which were already spelled out in the SAR
(with the exception of a time frame for the activities). Furthermore, the strategy that was established
failed to specify a strategy for withdrawal from the villages, including a number of clear benchmarks for
withdrawal as indicated by stakeholders. Finally, the project lacked a completion strategy on how to
implement the three year's participatory and progressive intervention strategy towards the end of the
project, when there is insufficient time for the full three year intervention cycle.
It should however be pointed out that, although Madagascar has a long irrigation tradition, recovery of
O&M charges is relatively new in the country and this may help to explain the relative low recovery
levels. Other countries, where O&M cost recovery has been introduced, have typically shown a slow
take-off and have achieved acceptable recovery rates only after many years and projects later.
Sustainable O&M in Madagascar will require a number of years of consistently and persistently
transmitting the same message by all parties involved. It will also require meticulous analysis of lessons
learned, and adjusting the message and approach in the light of these lessons. Finally, it needs an
- 1 1 -



holistic approach to sustainable rural development, including irrigation, extension, environment, market
access, soil fertility and input supply. The fact that some villages have attained impressive levels of cost
recovery based on a solid intemal WUG organization, demonstrates that it is possible to go beyond the
level that was attained in the majority of the schemes.
In summary, the rating of unlikely sustainability is based on the following considerations:
* Notwithstanding the participatory and progressive approach adopted by the project, cost recovery for
O&M remains weak, farmers only nominally contributed to investment costs, and project interference
often lasted longer than necessary;
*  The project achieved limited or no environmental impact and did not reduce erosion and
sedimentation levels;
*  No studies were conducted on issues related to broader and long-term sustainability of irrigation
investment programs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In view of its important cost savings, the process of management transfer and O&M cost recovery is
likely to be continued under the initiative of the Ministry, albeit, possibly, at a slower pace. Experience
has shown that a combination of infrastructure investment and management transfer can be highly
synergetic, and has the highest likelihood of lastingly leading to the intended results.
Completion of works in some schemes was shelved at the time of the project's closure. In view of the
above, it is expected that the GoM will continue completion of these works.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending;
One of the problems with which participatory irrigation intervention projects are faced in general is the
disconnect between participatory project implementation and disbursement. Often, credit disbursement is
at odds with the longer time that a participatory approach requires to mature. A more adaptable
disbursement schedule is needed. It can be questioned, in this particular project, if a more flexible
disbursement schedule would not have been more appropriate to allow the establishment of a
meaningful participatory process, adapted to the pace of the beneficiaries. The current disbursement
schedule did not seem to leave the option open to accept disbursement delays.
As discussed in the section on quality at entry, preparation and appraisal underestimated the risks
associated with the possible disconnect identified above, and failed to identify an appropriate, more
flexible disbursement procedure, adapted to a participatory project implementation. Because of this
disconnect, the Bank's role in lending is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first two years of implementation, disbursement was relatively slow for reasons of elaborating
an intervention strategy. While the SAR anticipated that two years would be used to obtain beneficiary
commitment, it is unclear why this needed to take two years, since most of the anticipated approach had
been spelled out in detail in the SAR. In fact, only the time line for the various steps in the approach was
missing in the SAR, and this could have been established within a relatively short period of time. With
more pro-active supervision (e.g. through the organization of a workshop at project start to solve project
intervention approach issues), the slow start could have been avoided.
The decisions made during the 1996 supervision mission following this slow disbursement were decisive
for subsequent project implementation. These decisions aimed at increasing the impact of the project,
and included measures related to the implementation of works (decentralization, outsourcing to
contractors, national coverage, small-, medium- and large-scale irrigation) as well as to the mobilization
and organization of WUGs (outsourcing of activities to NGOs, capacity building of NGOs,
decentralization). However, the results were not as anticipated. Whereas these decisions indeed sped up
project implementation and disbursement, they also shifted attention to some extent away from
- 12-



reinforcing capacity building of WUGs and focused on quantity more than on sustainability. Especially
because of the inclusion of large-scale irrigation rehabilitation, environmental activities became
insufficiently focused to have an impact, and therefore were ineffective. In addition, the progressive and
participatory approach in large-scale schemes was no longer valid.
As mentioned in section 3.5 and 7.1, one of the root problems of the project was the disconnect between
disbursement constraints and the participatory project approach. Low disbursement may indeed have
inspired the project supervision team to increase short-term project coverage and accelerate
disbursement. However, the decision to accelerate disbursement also appears to have been inspired by
a biased interpretation of the project's goals in terms of targets rather than in terms of their sustainability.
In this particular case, there is no evidence of attempts to opt for sustainability rather than for increasing
disbursement. The focus on disbursement has biased what would have otherwise been a satisfactory
performance on supervision, especially in terms of flexible response by the supervision team to
emerging issues.
Additionally, it is not clear from the supervision reports why a study to determine the feasability of
establishment of a permanent emergency rehabilitation fund, originally foreseen in the SAR, was not
conducted. In the first supervision report, the terms of reference of this study were mentioned, but at
project completion this study had still not been done. Supervision performance can therefore be rated as
marginally satisfatory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Overall, the Bank performance can be rated as marginally satisfactory. This is based on the following
considerations:
* the failure to recognize risks associated with the inconsistency between disbursement constraints and
the participatory project approach during preparation and appraisal;
* contrary to the overall objective of the project, the decision to increase project impact seems to have
been inspired by achieving targets, rather than by achieving them in a sustainable way;
* the study into a permanent emergency rehabilitation fund was not conducted.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
No information is available on the involvement of the Borrower in project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Govemment implementation performance was satisfactory overall. Although counterpart funds were not
always provided at the right time, the actual expenditures show that counterpart disbursements were
higher than originally foreseen.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The argument developed under section 7.2, and hence a similar performance rating, equally applies to
the Implementing Agency, who is responsible for project implementation. There is no evidence in the
project documentation that the Implementing Agency resisted the idea of including large-scale schemes,
or enlarging the coverage of the project, nor is there any indication suggesting to amend the project
approach with respect to WUG mobilization or to environmental sustainability. The same applies to the
study into a permanent emergency rehabilitation fund that was not conducted.
During the implementation of the project, a number of procurement problems surfaced and appropriate
action was taken to correct these problems.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance can be rated as marginally satisfactory. This is based on the following
considerations:
* Borrower did not raise any objections against amending the coverage of the project;
* On the positive side, at project completion, government contribution was higher than anticipated
- 13-



originally.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons leamed through the implementation of this project in Madagascar built on the lessons
leamed from the PPI-1. They are likely to have a strong relevance to future irrigation programs.
* The project has experimented with the question of a minimum investment volume needed to create
the required critical mass for the mobilization of farmers. Whereas other projects have often
assumed that only complete rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and investments of at least 5,000
USD per hectare were necessary to trigger farmer mobilization for O&M, the PPI-2 has demonstrated
that similar results can be obtained with investments in the order of 250-500 USD per hectare. This is
an important lesson for future irrigation investment projects. Even modest investments can create
momentum for management transfer, on the condition that they are accompanied by proper
mobilization and training of farmers. Future projects can build on this experience in the sense that
infrastructure development and institutional capacity building can be designed to move forward
together, step by step, adapted to the desired rhythm of the respective farmers.
* The project approach used should be consistent with the selected disbursement approach. This
issue should have been addressed as early as the project preparation phase. If a participatory project
approach is to be taken seriously, then the Government and the Bank should both be willing to
accept that more flexibility in the duration of project implementation is necessary. In addition,
projects, and the participatory process on which they depend, need to be given a longer time to
mature. For reasons of slow disbursement, they should not be allowed to shift focus towards
achieving targets, and away from achieving them in a sustainable way.
* A time limit should be set to the duration of the outside intervention. The participatory approach
should be well-structured with an agreed agenda and objectives among all stakeholders. In addition,
for the approach to produce sustainable results, it is imperative that the WUG is in the drivers seat
and indicates the moment when farmers are ready to move ahead to the next stage, the need for
further training and the technical assistance needed. This was not the case under the current project,
and may partly account for the unsustainability of the results.
* The environmental component of the project has demonstrated that irrigation projects should not be
developed as stand-alone projects. Rather, irrigation projects should be part of a multi-sectoral
approach, integrated into watersheds management programs and including land tenure, credit,
transport, access to marketing, input supply and extension. Sufficient budgetary and human
resources allocations need to be set aside to enable the project to adopt a meaningful and holistic
watershed approach.
* For investments in irrigation to be profitable, intensification should be adopted rigorously by farmers,
including use of high yielding varieties, double cropping and use of fertilizers. This should be
included in the selection criteria for receiving continued assistance from the project. Extension
services and soil fertility, now left for implementation to the PNVA, should become more holistically
integrated with irrigation development. In addition, other components need to receive attention, e.g.,
market access.
* In the current project, the executing agency has spent much time, sometimes excessively so, on the
development of an intervention approach. Technical assistance should be given to limit this time, in
particular since participatory approaches are in a permanent state of being further developed and
amended on the basis of new experiences. It does not seem to be fair to rely on the executing
agency to take the lead in applying the latest developments.
* Programming and prioritizing rehabilitation works have an impact on the returns on investments. The
extemal evaluation revealed that the relationship between investments and returns is not linear. For
example, some small works can solve a problem crucial to overall scheme functioning and thus
decrease the time needed to bring total investments to maturity.
* O&M cost recovery was frustrated by a lack of legal incentives for defaulters, resulting in rapid
erosion of recovery rates. The need to adopt appropriate legal measures is therefore of paramount
importance for the establishment and proper functioning of WUGs.
* Procurement of small works should be decentralized as far as possible, depending on the size and
nature of the contract. Most local contractors should, in principle, be capable of executing simple
- 14-



civil works and should be given an opportunity to participate in bidding. Bidding and bid evaluation
should, as far as possible, be organized at the provincial or lower level.
*  Donor co-ordination between all parties involved (EDF, AFD) is a prerogative of the Govemment and
a necessary condition to successful implementation of the project and accomplishment of its
objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The document prepared by the Govemment is attached to this report (Annex 8). The following is an
excerpt from this report.
The interest of the GoM in irrigation does not end with the completion of PPI-2. Sectoral objectives and
intervention strategies remain the same, with modifications inspired by the lessons learned from PPI-2
and the current decentralization process. To achieve its objectives in this important sector, the GoM
needs continued donor support.
During the implementation of PPI-2, some results were achieved, but they had not yet come to full
fruition at project completion:
*  WUGs were established, but their operations are not yet sustainable;
*  In a number of cases, technical feasibility studies for scheme rehabilitation were conducted, but
actual rehabilitation works have not been carried out;
* A number of schemes have only benefited from emergency repairs, and have not been rehabilitated
in a more comprehensive way;
* Management of a number of schemes has not yet been transferred to farmers;
* In case where management has been transferred, some WUGs find it as yet difficult to be
autonomous;
* Some schemes where management was transferred have not yet benefited from land titling.
It is important to consolidate the achievements of PPI-2 and to continue to work in the directions set out
during implementation of the two projects so as to achieve the objectives in full. Without this, the
irrigation sector policy started in 1985 would fail and be in contradiction with activities undertaken so far.
This would result in a confidence crisis between beneficiaries and the government impacting on future
operations in the rural sector.
In the meantime, the GoM will continue to support WUGs through relocation of staff, undertake
operational costs, and protect strategic hydraulic structures. The following decisions, and improvements
of the institutional and environmental context, have already been made by the GoM:
* VAT has been cancelled for products used exclusively in agriculture;
* Studies have translated into laws and regulations relevant to the irrigated sector in the context of
RSDP;
* Deliberations on the institutional context of post-emergency interventions have been conducted.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers for this project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments from other partners were received.
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorslLog Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Total number of ha of inigation area  25,295ha                              25,295ha
rehabilitated:
volumes of incremental crop production  Rice: 14,800                        Rice: 41,066
obtained (tons):                      Potatoes: 6,720
Fish: 116                             no data provided by proect
Triticale: 1025
increase in farmer income:            US$195-240/ha                         US$203/ha
Number of beneficiary water users reached: 148                              148
number of water user groups established:
121                                   121
number of schemes formally transferred to
water user groups:                    28                                    14
Inigation area fully managed by water user  148                             148
groups:
contribution of water users to cost of  59-75%                              59-75%
operation and maintenance:
cropping intensity                    1.3                                   1.3
Output Indicators:
End of project
- 16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Aaisal   Actalatest  Prcta  Of
Estniata     Esthnate      Appraisal
Proec Cost By Componnt                UaS$ million    US$ million
Cyclone rehabilitation and corrective rehabilitation work  4.10     4.50           109
Environmental assessment and protection              1.50           0.44            30
Rehabilitation of additional schemes                 8.20           6.02            73
Support for services of Ministry of Agriculture      5.20           6.20           119
Training                                             0.70           0.00           57
Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.20           2.31           140
Operations and maintenance by WUAs                   1.30           0.64           47
Insecticides                                                        1.91
Total Baseline Cost                                 21.20          22.02
Physical Contingencies                              2.10
Price Contingencies                                 2.40
Total Project Costs            25.70           22.02
Total Financing Required             25.70          22.02
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Aepraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Melf",d
ExporWitwo Caftgory       im           NCO                      N.B.F.    TotaI CGst
1. Works                    13.20         1.20         0.00          0.00        14.40
(11.80)       (1.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (12.80)
2. Goods                     0.97         0.46         0.30          0.00        1.73
(0.66)       (0.33)       (0.20)       (0.00)       (1.19)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.36          0.00        3.36
Consultants                 (0.00)        (0.00)       (3.18)       (0.00)       (3.18)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          1.04         0.00         1.04
Training & Workshops        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.04)       (0.00)       (1.04)
5. Miscellaneous:            0.00         0.15         2.42          0.00        2.57
Allowances & Rec. costs     (0.00)        (0.13)       (2.11)       (0.00)       (2.24)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     14.17         1.81         7.12         0.00        23.10
(12.46)       (1.46)       (6.53)       (0.00)      (20.45)
Project Costs br Procureme rt Arngements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Proeurenet Metowd
EVxINIUre CalgWorY       1ic           NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     TotalCost
1. Works                     0.00         8.01         0.53          0.00        8.54
________________________    (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)
- 17 -



2. Goods                         0.70            0.56           0.03           0.00           1.29
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       1.21           1.20           0.74           0.00           3.15
Consultants                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.95           0.00           0.95
Training & Workshops             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous:                0.00            0.00           4.52           0.00           4.52
Allowances & Rec. costs         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.62            1.25           0.11           0.00           1.98
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00         (0.00)         (0.00
Total                         2.53           11.02           6.88           0.00          20.43
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
uFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project financing (in US$ million)
I____________________________         Estimation  at appraisal                Actual
IDA                                           21.2                             20.4
Beneficiaries                                  1.7                             0.6
Govemnment                                     2.8                             3.5
TOTAL                                         25.7                             24.5
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return of the project calculated at appraisal was 27%, based on a cost/benefit
stream over 10 years. The ERR calculation considered all the investments under the first PPI as sunk
costs and hence did not include any of this initial investment costs. As part of an impact evaluation of
irrigated perimeters, conducted in the year 2000 by independent consultants, some ERR calculations
were made for about 10 perimeters rehabilitated under both PPI 1 and PPI 2. These ERR calculations
included the costs of the PPI rehabilitation (excluded from the SAR calculations). Their estimates show
rates of return of between -5 to 23 percent with only two out of the 10 rehabilitated schemes obtaining an
ERR of 20% or more. Close to 40% of the schemes show
an ERR of more than 14%, and 60% of the schemes have an ERR above 10%. Apart from these
individual perimeter ERRs there has been no separate calculation of an ERR for the project as a whole.
It is difficult to compare the ERR calculated in the SAR with those estimated as part of the impact
evaluation even though the impact evaluation ERRs give a good base for estimating the impact of the
investments. Using the same assumption used in the SAR that the initial PPI investments were sunk
costs, the ERRs calculated by the independent consultants would have been considerably higher than
what they found. Thus comparing the ERR calculated at appraisal and those at completion (using the
same methodology) one could conclude that returns were satisfactory though the appraisal ERR
calculation may have underestimated the costs.
The external evaluation also revealed that the relationship between investments and returns is not linear.
For example, some small works can solve a problem crucial to overall scheme functioning and thus
decrease the time needed to bring total investments to maturity. Programming and prioritizing
rehabilitation works therefore are important instruments to increase returns on investments, in particular
in view of the progressive character of the project approach.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:    ___
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1992                2   Irrigation Eng. + Sr. Ag.            S              U
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/April                 7   Agriculturist, Irrigation            S              U
1993                            Eng., Environmentalist, Ext.
Specialist, Financial Analyst,
Local Participation Spec.,
Institutional Spec.
Supervision
November 1994               4   Ag. Economist, Irrigation           HS              HS
Eng., Consultant, Financial
Analyst
March 1995                  4   Irrigation Engineer, Consultant,    HS              HS
Agriculturist, Extension Spec.
October 1995                3   Agriculturist, Consultant,           S              S
Extension Spec.
October 1996                1   Agriculturist                        S              U
July/August 1997            2   Agriculturist, Environmentalist      S              S
March 1998                  2   Agriculturist, Rural Engineer        S              S
October 1998                2   Agriculturist, Consultant            S              S
March 1999                  3   Agriculturist, Extension Spec.,      S              S
Consultant
November 1999               1   Extension Spec.                      S              S
May/June 2000               2   Extension Spec., Irrigation Eng.     S              S
ICR
January 2001                1    Irrigation Specialist               S              S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 51                          61
Appraisal/Negotiation                      95                         274
Supervision                                95                         384
ICR                                         4                          11
Total                                     245                         730
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
?Sector Policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               *H OSUOM O N O NA
F Financial                              O H  O SU O M  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                          O H  O SU O M  * N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
E Gender                          OH OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH   O SU O M  O N  O NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS*S  OU   OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  O HU
62 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS OS  OU  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O  U  O HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*  Statements of mission objectives, Back-to-office reports, Supervision Reports and Aide-Memoires
* Disbursements Database and reports for the project - World Bank's Integrated Controller's System
(1994-2000).
* "Evaluation des Resultats et d'lmpact du Programme de Rehabilitation des Perimetres Irrigues",
external evaluation report by Biodev/Gerco, September 2000
*  Aide Memoire, RSDP mission, June 2000.
* "Rapport d'Achevement" prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, November 2000.
- 23 -






Map Section






IBRD 16926R
12'                                 MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                     12
RELIEF, WATERCOURSES AND RAINFALL
Rit/EF, COURS D'EAu frT PWVYiSITE
CeM-etewrs per year                   >4b00i O
Cer,h,setres por enasslE   7Ot iOt                                          f     S                           \    igrr
., tP',iR1*5 oOI r                           t-20. : :  S 
Flinuses et r1ierss
N rtion/eT cpital
      Foritony (pnince) capito-
Ch of- eia. W0 foatar,y
Faritaay bour,d-r,e
1-ndes dnFnln
*,ite-oti nor-irsf 1odries                                            /ra
16 v ^ w ~~hrrte  Se (Fa                                                                               S o,f
do.,&ats~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~erar    trar,o                                         I,
MointirarstM                                           e     ot       n    Jn if ;               }                0      ,    t
<   tt:\"  j    1 +7in<  i | | fi l ffi ,ina i,/4    L    :    f                                             4- X~~inrranat
%            b~~~elo-Tsiribihi   > +'jllJli,4                                                e              
461.s/. l1 }u|tr :.- 0-, 
Ti ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ O
ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2(-Morom        anonovaMr   MahrS'1
s         aJ   ~~TOLIARY                                                              t 9            r
A n               FIANAR                                  P            0M5200B -       5.     taB     150 _
Toliory   +                                                                                                                                    I
Toioy   TANZANIA             INtiZJAN
in,ir nn,a,-enn _ C eilia                                                               BBIiIPB5                                                 (a8|-
rteaders ann,, ,nknnn In, lire                                                                                                     iU-v U  
and lisa t'rarrarBiai FinanceW
Cr,nrarirthebaoierhobnin                                                                                            ZImVh    J S * d ;.|2MBASWF'  &    ;oivo3s 
ida rtrwrtc Iolqn,h nina,n sh            Amboosory-'u \A                        +      '-'                           '                            -- ' 11
pai S The WnldBniB   byS Bile
priiiialoia,Finanet Cinjrncai,nn                                                 ,|                                                     v      $AG SC
01 any ienii. rv or any n                    >                  j        S            n          ;   ; .   -       | [t SOUTH \    ,   :         -  .BI
rnci bni,'na rr|                                                                                                      AFRIC
MARCH 1991



