Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.12691-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 20, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
African Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency ULnit          =               Nalagasy Franc (FMG)
USSI 00                                 FMG 3,(XX) (Ma) 1994)
SDRI (X)                                FMG 4230 (Nlay  1994)
WEIGHTS AND NMEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADR                     Rural Developmtent Agent (Agent de d6veloppeitnent rural)
AfDB                    Africani Development Banik
AIR                     Rural Itistitutions Support (Appui aux institutionis rurales)
APD                     Detailed Feasibility Study (Avant projet detailld)
CA                      Rural Sociologist (Coniseiller animateur
CCCE                    Caisse Centrale pour Cooperation Econontique (nlost CFD)
CFD                     Caisse francaise de d6veloppement (fi riierly CCCE)
CH                      Irrigation Sclitene Adslisor (Conseiller htdraulique)
CIRGR                   Rural Works Sub-Prefecture Area (Circonscription du gentie rural)
CIRVA                   Agricultural Elxteisioti Zotie (Circoulscriptioit de vulgarisattion
agricole)
CP                      FAO!World Batik Cooperatioii Program
DA                      Directorate fir Agriculture ([irection de I'agriculture)
DGR                     Rural Works Directorate (Direction du Genie Rural)
DGRH                    Humttani Resource Directorate (Direction de la Gestion des ressources
hulaiaines)
EAO                     lIn Depth Orientatiott Study (Etude approfoiidie d'orietitatioti)
EDF                     European D)eelopittent Fund (Fonds europ6en de developpeterilet
ERR                     Econorniiic Rate of Return
lT                      Field Teamil (1Equipe de terrain)
YAO                     Food atid Agriculture Organization
FIFAMANOR               l)airy atid Agricultural Fxtensioni Project (Projet d'Assistanice
NtorNsgienne au D&scloppemterit de l'Agriculture sur les Ilauts-
I'lateaux)
FMG                     Malagasy Franc tlranc Malgacheo
FOFI'FA                 National Applied Research Cetiter tor Rural Dereloptteit (Cetitre
tiational de recherchie appliquee pour le developpemitentt ruLral)
GDP                     Gross [)omestic Product (Produidt tatiotial brut)
GPI                     large Irrigated Schenties (Gratids p6rimttres irrigues)
GR                      Rural storks (Getnie rural)
ICB                     Ititeriiational Cotimpetitive Bidding IAppel d'of'fre internaitiotal
IDA                     Internatiotial Developittent Associatitit (Associatioin pour le
developperttent interniational)
KfWV                    Kreditanistalt fur Wiederaufbau
KOBAMA                  Minoteric d'Etat
MEADR                   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural )evelopmentei (IMinistere d'Etat a
I'Agriculture et au Developpenment Rural)
MPI                     NMicro Irrigation Schemes (itticro p6rimetres irrigues)
O&M                     Operations and Maintenance (Gestiion et enitretienl)
ODOC                    Land Registration Operatioii (Operation dontaniale concertee)
OGL                     Open Genieral Licence
ONG                     Non-governtmiental Orgatiization (Orgatiisnie noii-gouseriteitetital)
PAE                     lnirotittental Action Plati (PPlai d'action pour I'eitvirofiticitieiit)
PAM                     World Food Program lProgratminie alittietitaire ittoridiale)
pF:                     Faarily Irrigated (P6rirnttre fatiiilial)
PIP                     Public ltvestitterit lProgratit (Progratii d'iivestisseritent public)
PM I                    Sriiall atid Mediunt Scale F titerprises tPetite et titoyyetitte cultreprises)
PNLUD                   Prograinme des Nationis Urnies pour le d6veloppertient Inmited Naitiotis
Developmtent Progratit)
PPF                     Project Preparation Facility (Asatce pour preparation de projet)
PPI                     Stitall Scale Irrigation ( Pet its pirtnetres irrigues)
PNVA                    Nationtal Agricultural Extetsiost Project (Progratiittte tationial de
vulgarisatiott agricotle)
SAC                     Sectoral Adjustment Credit
SAF                     Fhianicial and Aditministratise Sern ice (Sersice adtmiinistratif et
finattcier)
SANiANGOKY              Bas Marigoky D)evelopmttent Comttpatty (Stici6i6 pour 1'arin6nageittemt el
la uitise eti valeur de la vallee du Bas Manigoky)
SDA                     (Scherna directeur d'atternagernent)
SDR                     Special Drawing Rights (Droits de tirage special)
SNITIS                  Directorate for Prograittithtig atid Fimiatices'Methods atid ['rocessiig
Service
SOMALAC                 State SmLicety of lac Alaotra (Socictt  d'Etat du lac Alaotra)
SOE                     Statenitent (It Expettditure
UNDI)P                  United Nations D3evelopittent Progratim (Progratimitte des Natiotis UInics
pour le d6veloppentent)
WIJA                    Water U)sers' Associationis (Associationis des [Usagers d'lEau)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
Jattuary I - Decetitber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    .................................    i
I.  BACKGROUND    ......                    .......... ..1.................... 
A.  Project Background   ...............................                                               1
B.  Economic Background  ..............................                                               1
General   ....................................                                              1
Economic Performance  ...........................                                           2
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results  ...............                                 2
C.  The Agricultural Sector .............................                                             3
Agriculture in the Economy  ........................                                        3
Recent Agricultural Developments  ....................                                      4
Potential for Agricultural Growth   ....................                                    4
Constraints to Agricultural Development  ................    4
Government Strategy for Agriculture   ..................                                    4
D.  The Irrigation Sub-Sector ............................                                            5
Irrigation Development Strategy   .....................                                     6
E.  Administrative Organization   ..........................                                          7
F.  Bank Group Involvement  ............................                                              7
IDA  Lending Strategy for Madagascar   .................                                    7
Recent Lending Experience  ........................                                         8
Lessons from  Previous IDA  Experience   ................                                   9
II. THE FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT  ....                                               .......  10
A.  Project Implementation   .............................    10
Objectives  .. .................................   10
Implementation ................................   10
B.  Lessons from  the First Project .........................    11
Inventory Study   ...............................    11
Feasibility Studies  ..............................    1 1
Definition of Responsibilities  .......................    11
Costs  .....................................                                               1 1
Environmental Impact   ...........................    12
Water Users' Associations  .........................    12
Agricultural Development  .........................   12
Institutional Structure  .. ..........................   13
III.   THE  PROJECT  ......................................    14
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission undertaken in March 1993 by a team
consisting of Messrs. C. Trapman (Agricultural Economist, Mission leader), Adel Bichara (Irrigation
Engineer), John Buursink (Environment Planner, consultant), Enda J. Byrne (local participation/NGO
specialist, consultant), Solange Elfassy (agricultural extension and community development specialist,
consultant), Bruno Ribon (Financial Analyst, consultant) and Jean-Claude Rocaboy (Institutional
Specialist, consultant). Peer review was carried out by Messrs G. Donovan and J. ter Vrugt. The
Director, the Operations Adviser and the Division Chief of the responsible department and division are
F. Aguirre-Sacasa, S. Capoluongo and N.O. Tcheyan, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnuce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



A.  Project Rationale   .........  ..  .                         .  ..  .  .   .. ............  .                 .  14
B.  Project Objectives and  Design   .......  .                            .  .  .  .   ..........  .          .   .    14
Objectives  ...........  .                      ..  ..  .    ..      ...............                    .  14
Main  Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
The  Project  ............  ..  ..  ..                            .. .............                      .  15
The  Challenge   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
C.  Summary  Project Description    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
D.  Detailed  Project Description   ........  .                           .  .  .  .  .   ........  .       .  .   .    17
Cyclone Damage Repair and Corrective Rehabilitation Works  .   17
Environmental Protection    ........  .                          .  .  .  .  .   ..........  .        .  18
Rehabilitation of New Irrigation Schemes (US$8.2 million)  . ...   18
Support to  the  MEADR                 ........  .            .  .  .   .. ...........                .  19
Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Monitoring  and  Evaluation/Audit   ......  .                            ..     .........  .          .    21
Operations and Maintenance by Water Users Associations ....  .  21
E.  Project Costs and  Financing  Costs    ......  .                           .  .   ..   .........  .           .    21
Contingency  Allowances  .......  .                         .  .  .  .   .. .........  .           .   .    22
Incremental Recurrent Costs    ......  .                         .  .   ..   .........  .          .   .    22
Project Sustainability   .......  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .........  .          .     .    23
F.  Financing  ..........  .                      ..  .   ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   ..  .   ...           23
IDA   Credit   .........  .                   .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   ..........  .         .  .  .     .    23
Co-Financing   ........  .                    .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  .         ..  .   .    23
Government's  Share    .......  .                      .  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  .         .  .     .    23
Beneficiaries' Share  ........  .                      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .........  .       .  .     .    24
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ....... .                                            .  .  .  .  .  .    ............            .  25
A.  Status of Project Preparation                    .......  .            .  .   ..    ...........  .            .    25
B.  Project Implementation    .......  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .........  .       .  .  .   .    25
Project Implementation  Timetable   ......  .                            ..     .........  .          .    25
Directorate  of Rural Works   .......  .                         .  .   ..   .........  .          .   .    25
Directorate  for Agriculture    .......  .                       .  .   ..   .........  .          .   .    27
Directorate for Programming and Finances/Methods and
Processing  Service  .......  .                    .  .  .   ..  ..........  .            .    28
Project Coordination    .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  .         .  .     .    28
Financial and  Administrative  Service   ......                             ..    ........  .         .    29
Beneficiaries   ........  .                   .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  ..  .          .   .    29
C.  Project Monitoring  and  Evaluation   ......  .                             .  .   ..  .........  .           .    30
D.  Procurement and  Disbursements    ......  .                              .  .   ..    ..........  .           .    30
Civil Works  . . . ...                 ......              .   . . . .    .   . . . . . . . .. .    31
Goods   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                         .. ..............                        .    31
Consulting  Services   ........  .                     .  ..  .  .  .  .   .........  .         .  .     .    31
Prior Review   Procedures and  Reporting    .....                               ..  ........          .    31
E. Accounting, Auditing, Budgeting, Disbursement and Reporting
Procedures    ..........  .                     ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   .     .  33
Accounts and  Audits   ........  .                        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
Budgets   ...........  ..  .                      ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  .    ..  ..  .   ..  ..       .  34
Disbursement Procedures    .......  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    34
Disbursement by IDA against Statements of Expenditure .....                                             .  34
Credit Disbursement   ........  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
F.  Project Impact on  Government Budget  ......  .                                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    36
During  Project Implementation   .......  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    36
G.  Legal and  Regulatory  Framework    .......  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    36
Land  Tenure   ..........  .                      ..  .   .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .     .  36



Water Users' Associations .........................   37
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION IMPACT  .... 38
Technological Production Improvements  ................   38
Financial Impact of the Adoption of New  Techniques  ...                  .....  39
VI.  MARKETS AND  PRICES   ...............................   41
VII.  BENEFITS AND  RISKS  ................................   42
A.  Financial and Economic Benefits  .......................   42
Institutional Development Benefits ....................   42
Direct Quantifiable Benefits .........................   42
Indirect Benefits  ...............................   42
Economic Rate of Return   .........................   42
B. Environmental Impact ..............................   43
Soil Fertility   .................................   44
Health Risks ..................................   44
Effects of Intensification of Agricultural Production.    ...             .....  44
Environmental Actions  ...........................   44
C.  Risks  ........................................   44
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ..... ..                                    ..........   46
TABLES
Table 3.1:  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project Estimated Project Costs   .............  22
Table 3.2: Physical and Price Contingency Assumptions   ....................  22
Table 3.3:  Proposed Project Financing   ...............................  24
Table 4.1:  Procurement .........................................   33
Table 4.2:  Disbursement of IDA  Credit ...............................   35
Table 4.3:  Estimated IDA  Disbursements ..............................   36
Table 5.1:  Potential Technical Improvements in Agricultural Production ....                         .......  38
Table 5.2:  Increases in Production and Yields with and without Project  ....                        .......  39
Table 5.3:  Cropping Intensity and Net Revenue Per Model Farm   ...............  40
Table 7.1:  Sensitivity Analysis of the ERR to Changes in Costs and Benefits ...                       .....  43
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Detailed Cost Tables ......................................  47
Annex 2: Declaration of Irrigation Policy ...............................   55
Annex 3: Environmental Assessment ..................................  61
Annex 4:  Rehabilitation of Medium-Sized Irrigation Schemes (PPIs) by Source of
External Funding During the First Project (PPI-1)   ..................  64
Annex 5: Calculation of Incremental Benefit/Costs Stream  and Internal
Economic Return .......................................   65
Annex 6: Monitoring and Evaluation Performance Indicators ...................  66
Annex 7: Estimated Schedule of Disbursement  ..........................    67
Annex 8: Documents Contained in the Project File ........................    68






MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             Madagascar
Beneficiary          Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MEADR)
Credit Amount:       US$21.2 million, equivalent to SDR 15 million
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Project Objectives    The project would support the country development strategy on four
and Directives       fronts: (a) Promoting growth.  It would contribute to increased
agricultural output through better water management and intensified
agricultural extension. (b) Poverty reduction. It would contribute to
improved rural incomes and food security by improving production and
productivity on irrigation schemes country-wide. (c) Improving
environmental  management.  It  would  develop  techniques  for
environmental assessment of irrigation rehabilitation and reinforce local
capacity for such assessment. (d) Enhancing project implementation
capacity. It would establish operational procedures for the transfer of
management of the operation and maintenance of public irrigation
schemes to water users and thus would serve to reduce the burden of
public expenditure on the maintenance of such irrigation infrastructure.
It would provide the means for more efficient management of the
decentralized services of the Ministry of Agriculture in agricultural
extension, rural works supervision and local planning and programming.
The main policy reforms are: (i) The transfer of responsibility for
maintenance and operations of public irrigation schemes to water users;
(ii) the acceleration of the process of the decentralization of support
services from the Ministry of Agriculture to provinces and districts; (iii)
the activation and testing of a policy for encouraging local participation
in the provision of public services in the irrigation sub-sector.
The components would include: (i) the consolidation of rehabilitation
and transfer of O&M responsibilities started on some 16,000 ha of
irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the first phase project, including
urgent post-cyclone rehabilitation; (ii) assessment and execution of the
environmental protection works needed to ensure the sustainability of
rehabilitated irrigation schemes; (iii) rehabilitation of a further 4,000 ha
of new irrigated schemes; (iv) strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's
agricultural extension, rural works and programming and planning
services, at the provincial, district and local levels to improve local
technical supervision of rehabilitation and support for the establishment
and functioning of water users associations; (v) training project staff and
farmers with an emphasis on developing local capacity and talents to
ensure sustainable activities for future phases of the rehabilitation
program; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation of project impact.



ii
Project Area:      Countrywide
Estimated Project Costs a\
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total
A. Cyclone rehabilitation and corrective rehabilitation works
B. Environmental assessment studies and protection works  1.4    2.7   4.1
C. Rehabilitation of additional schemes                0.6       0.9   1.5
D. Support for services of Ministry of Agriculture     2.8       5.4   8.2
E. Human resource development                          2.5       2.7   5.2
F. Monitoring and Evaluation                          0.4        0.3   0.7
G. Operations and maintenance by WUAs                  0.1       0.1   0.2
1.3      0.0    1.3
Base Cost                                              9.1      12.1  21.2
Physical contingencies                                 0.9       1.2   2.1
Price contingencies                                    1.4       1.0   2.4
Total Project Costs                                   11.4      14.3  25.7
a/ Includes US$2.7 million of taxes and duties
Proposed Project Financing
US$ million       Percent
IDA                      21.2             82.6
Beneficiaries             1.7              6.7
Government                2.8             10.7
Total                    25.7            100.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00    FY01
6 ms                                            6 ms
Annual                0.7    1.5    2.0    4.0    4.8    5.2           3.0
Cumulative            0.7    2.2    4.2    8.2    13.0   18.2        21.2
Percentage            3.0   10.0   20.0   39.0   61.0   86.0    100.0
Agriculture Sector
Disbursement Profile    0.0   10.0   22.0   38.0   58.0   82.0       94.0



iii
Project Benefits: The project will result in a better use of irrigation infrastructure and increased
production and revenue for about 40,000 small scale farmers directly benefitting from the project.
It will lead to reduced Government financial obligations to the irrigation sub-sector in the long
term. One of the main benefits of successful implementation will be the strengthening of the
agricultural extension and rural works services of the Ministry of Agriculture. The project will
improve the capacity of the Ministry in environmental assessment of proposed irrigation
rehabilitation projects.
Environmental Impact: Improved drainage of stagnant waters would have a beneficial effect on
the accumulation of salinity and mineral deposits in the soils and the elimination of breeding
grounds for vectors of diseases such as malaria and bilharzia. In addition to selection criteria
based on water users' commitment to taking over O&M responsibility, economic viability and
proximity to road and market outlets, selection criteria of schemes for rehabilitation will include
an assessment of environment risks in the catchment areas to minimize subsequent silting and
high maintenance costs. Crop intensity recommendations involve low levels of insecticides and
fertilizers.
Risks: Project sustainability depends upon the water users effectively taking over responsibility
for the rehabilitated schemes. Experience under the first project has not been decisive on this
point. Part of the cause was the lack of sufficient involvement of water users in the process of
defining and deciding rehabilitation proposals. This is being addressed under the project. In order
to reduce the risk of insufficient commitment by water users, upfront contributions, in the form
of cash or of labor for maintenance will be monitored at specific intervals before new investments
in rehabilitation are confirmed.  To redress the modest improvements in production and
productivity registered under the first phase project, support will be provided to agricultural
extension and research and development activities. Although the increased production generated
by the project is relatively modest, the criteria for the selection of additional schemes for
rehabilitation will continue to include satisfactory access to a road network, in order to avoid the
risk of problems created by insufficient market outlets.
Internal Rate of Return: The internal rate of return is estimated at 27 percent on benefit and
cost streams projected over 10 years.
Poverty Category - Program of Targeted Interventions: 34 percent of the population in
Madagascar are estimated to be affected by food insecurity. The project will contribute to
reducing food insecurity in rural areas and will increase rural incomes among smallholder rice
producers, who are among the poorest of the rural population.
Map: IBRD N°25595 - Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project






MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1   In 1985, the Government of Madagascar obtained funding from IDA, the French
Governrment and the European Development Fund for a project which was to establish a
systematic approach to the rehabilitation of medium- and small-sized irrigation schemes. The
objective was to move away from a reliance on government management and funding, of the
schemes known as the Petits Perimetres Irrigues (PPIs), which had been characterized since the
1970s by poor maintenance, infrastructure deterioration and excessive public expenditure . The
project was to be the first phase of a long term program which would gradually cover the
country's publicly-funded medium- and small-scale irrigation schemes. It would strengthen the
institutions responsible for selection, preparation and implementation of rehabilitation, encourage
the participation of private consulting engineering companies and develop local maintenance
responsibility and capacity.  A major objective was to transfer responsibility for future
rehabilitation from the govermnent to the private sector, notably through the introduction of
Water Users' Associations.
1.2   Seven years after start-up of the first phase project, whose physical implementation impact
has been positive, the government invited the FAO Investment Center to prepare a second phase
of the project, which would build on the experience of the first. The preparation mission for this
second phase took place in October 1992 and was followed by an appraisal mission by the Bank
in March/April 1993. Representatives of the European Development Fund and the Caisse
Francaise de Developpement also contributed to the work of the mission. At the same time, the
Agricultural and Environment Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department of the
Africa Region of the Bank produced a discussion paper outlining a strategy for strengthening the
contribution of the irrigation sub-sector to agricultural growth in Madagascar. Elements of this
strategy were endorsed by Government in early 1993 and incorporated in the design of the second
phase project, details of which are presented below.
B. Economic Background
General
1.3    Madagascar is the world's fourth largest island, 1,500 km long, with an area of 590,000
km2 (slightly larger than France). It is characterized by a rough topography, variations in soils
and climate, some mineral endowment and unique flora and fauna. Rice is the country's main
staple and the major exports are coffee, vanilla, cloves and shellfish. The population in 1993 is
estimated at about 12.4 million inhabitants, growing at a rate of 2.8 per cent per year; its
distribution is very uneven, with an average of 18.5 per km2, but exceeding 100 per km2 in the
central highlands. Close to half of the urban population of 3 million lives in the capital,
Antananarivo.



2
Economic Performance
1.4    With a per capita income of US$230 in 1993, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries
in the world. The agriculturally dominated economy, which had grown modestly in the late
1980s, following a decade of decline, was disrupted by political developments since 1991. Output
fell by almost 6 percent in 1991, recovering to only 1 and 2 percent respectively in 1992 and
1993, accompanied by annual inflation of 13 percent for the past two years.
1.5    The poor economic performance of the 1970s and early 1980s stemmed largely from
inappropriate economic policies, with emphasis on public investment financed from external
borrowing - mostly for economically non-viable projects, industrialization, nationalization of
foreign-owned enterprises, extensive consumer subsidies and pervasive controls over private
economic activity.
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results
1.6    Policy adjustment between 1981 and 1986 aimed at financial stabilization and centered
on demand management; during that period, the fiscal deficit fell from 15 percent to 4 percent
of GDP through reduced expenditures, inflation dropped from 30 percent to 13 percent per
annum, and imports were reduced by more than half in real terms.
1.7   Starting in 1985, the government's reform program was supported by four IDA sector
adjustment credits covering industry, agriculture, trade, and the public sector. A number of
important reforms were undertaken with the support of these credits. In industry, the government
eliminated most price controls and export taxes, reduced controls on profit margins, and began
to dismantle the heavy administrative regulations, which were a disincentive to private activity.
In agriculture, it liberalized the pricing and domestic marketing of rice (Madagascar's main
staple), eliminated most state monopolies, and abolished export taxes except for vanilla. In the
external sector, the government substantially eased administrative export restrictions, greatly
enhanced the country's international competitiveness through a series of devaluations of the
Malagasy franc (Fmg), ended quantitative import restrictions, introduced an automatic allocation
of foreign exchange for merchandise imports through an open general licensing (OGL) system,
and initiated major tariff reform to reduce effective protection. An improved budgetary system
was introduced, and the process for public investment programming was improved. Steps were
taken to withdraw the state from productive activities, and to close down a number of long-
standing projects which absorbed an inordinate amount of domestic financing.  Financial
institutions were partially privatized, and the sector was opened to two new privately-owned
banks. Finally, a new domestic petroleum price mechanism was adopted; under this mechanism,
prices are automatically adjusted based on international prices, the exchange rate, and the cost
of transport and unloading.
1.8    Economic management suffered during the political transition starting in 1991. Budgetary
discipline deteriorated; monetary management was lax; external arrears accumulated; the OGL
system was replaced by rationing of foreign exchange in 1991; large-scale import restrictions
were re-imposed in early 1994 as a way to address foreign exchange shortages; divestiture of
public enterprises was slow, with only about 50 enterprises out of 170 divested and the largest,
and those with the most acute financial and economic problems, remaining in the public sector;
ill-advised borrowing schemes were explored; and reforms of the legal and regulatory framework
to improve the business environment were discontinued. While Madagascar maintained military



3
expenditures at a relatively low level, expenditures on general administration and indirect
transfers to public enterprises represented an important burden on the economy. Because of the
shortcomings in economic management and the government's inability to address some of the
major issues affecting the public sector, on September 30, 1993, the Association closed the FY88
public sector adjustment credit and canceled its third tranche.
1.9   In March 1994, the prime minister publicly stated his governrment's intention to
resume discussions with the Bank and Fund with a view to reaching agreement on a reform
program. During a visit to Washington in late March/early April, he agreed to take strong
preliminary measures to show his commitment to reform, including immediate steps to correct
the overvaluation of the Malagasy franc (Fmg), eliminate import restrictions and revise the
1994 budget and public investment program to reduce the deficit and improve resource
allocation. These steps were all taken in early May, including the floating of the Fmg, and a
joint Bank/IMF mission is in Madagascar to negotiate a PFP.
C. The Agricultural Sector
Agriculture in the Economy
1.10   Agriculture is the most important contributor to the national economy, contributing 33
percent to gross domestic product. The sector employs over 80 percent of the active population
and accounts for over 60 percent of export earnings (during the early 1980s, agricultural exports
represented 85 percent of total exports, and over 90 percent if processed agricultural products
were added). The sector supplies the primary inputs to the food and textile industries which
together account for 75 percent of the value added of the industrial sector. The economic
stagnation which has affected other sectors of the economy more severely than agriculture, has
led to an increase in agriculture's share of GDP from 31 percent in 1965 to 33 percent in 1993.
1.11   The agricultural sector grew at an average annual rate of 0.6 percent between 1970 and
1980, well below the estimated population growth rate of about 3 percent and stagnated between
1980 and 1983. While macro-economic stabilization policies concentrated on controlling inflation
and public and current account deficits, the provision of services and infrastructure maintenance
continued to deteriorate.  Trade liberalization measures and elimination of export taxation
measures were initiated in 1983 and completed in 1992 for most sub-sectors, with the exception
of vanilla, cotton, sugar, tobacco and wheat. From 1984 to 1988, the agriculture sector grew
on average at slightly more than 2 percent per year. After a surge of more than 5 percent in
1989, agricultural growth has again been sluggish because of the combined effects of poor
weather and political change, reaching 2.4 percent in 1990 and 1.6 percent in 1991.
1.12   Although most tropical and temperate climate crops can be found in Madagascar, only
about 2.3 million ha, i.e. about 6 percent of the country's arable land, are cultivated. Rice
production is the most important agricultural activity, accounting for 41 percent of agricultural
output (1992).  Fishing is the second most important activity (20 percent of agricultural
production). The traditional export crops (coffee, vanilla, cloves and pepper) together account
for 7 percent of agricultural output. Root crops and maize contribute 11 percent. Vegetables and
fruits contribute 10 percent, industrial crops 3 percent and livestock 5 percent. While agriculture
and agro-industries are still contributing about 80 percent to total exports, there has been a shift
in the relative importance of various products. The share of traditional exports has declined to
about 40 percent in 1991, while the share of non-traditional products, such as shrimps and



4
lobsters, which now accounts for about 15 percent of total exports, has been rapidly growing by
over 20 percent per year since 1986.
Recent Agricultural Developments
1.13   The response from the agricultural sector to the adjustment measures throughout the
1980s has been mixed, varying across sub-sectors and regions. Fisheries and non-traditional
exports, which benefitted from early trade liberalization and adjustment measures, significantly
expanded after 1983; similarly, non-rice agricultural activities in the central highlands - where
communications are more favorable (proximity to large urban markets, adequacy of physical
infrastructure and agricultural services) - responded positively to improved price incentives (dairy
products, potatoes, sweet potatoes, maize, barley, wheat). On the contrary, the traditional
exports (coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper) and cotton sub-sectors and their corresponding regions
(East Coast, Northern region, West Coast) did not respond to the adjustment measures, partly
because of the drop in world market prices (coffee, cloves) and partly due to the continued
deterioration of communications and the absence of full trade liberalization (vanilla).  The
production of rice, after first responding to the liberalization of the rice trade in 1986, has also
stagnated because of poor market infrastructure (roads, markets and storage).
Potential for Agricultural Growth
1 .14   Madagascar possesses a considerable potential for agricultural growth.  It has a
comparative advantage in agricultural production based on low labor costs and availability of land
in different ecological zones. It can produce a variety of temperate and tropical crops for the
domestic and export markets.  It possesses an extensive irrigation infrastructure, largely
underutilized and representing an important asset to enable intensification and diversification.
Moreover, crop yields are uniformly low and the potential to increase yields on the basis of
known technologies is important.
Constraints to Agricultural Development
1.15   Sector adjustment reforms undertaken by Madagascar in the recent past such as the
liberalization of domestic trade have improved prices and market demand for agricultural produce
but have produced only a limited supply response so far. Sustained and spontaneous growth of
the sector is constrained by the continuing lack of reliable transport and communication
infrastructure linking farmers with a market, poor control and lack of management of water
resources, inadequate protection of watershed areas and poor agricultural support services and
transfer of technology. Public investment in the agricultural sector has concentrated too heavily
over recent years on undertaking activities which could be carried out by farmers themselves and
too little on providing basic services and creating an environment to enable farmers to fend better
for themselves.
Government Strategy for Agriculture
1.16   Government has begun to reformulate its strategy for agricultural and rural development.
It recognizes that a rural development policy based on the intensification of the small farm sector



5
in the high potential areas of Madagascar would accelerate the development of the entire rural
non-farm economy, increase the size of the domestic market and provide sizeable farm and off-
farm employment opportunities and environmental benefits. The driving force for agricultural
growth and development would be the increased integration of the agricultural sector into the
market economy.  Actions aimed at establishing the appropriate environment for market
development would represent a powerful instrument for boosting agricultural growth and
incomes. The strategy calls for: (a) the removal of the remaining macro-economic distortions;
(b) provision of adequate rural infrastructure (transport and communications, irrigation, rural
market infrastructure), and regulatory framework (business legislation, agricultural institutions,
rural financial policies) in the rural areas with a view to promote the intensification of the small-
farm sector and the rural non farm sector, and to facilitate inter-regional trade; (c) strengthening
of the public sector capacity for coordination, policy and strategy formulation, administration and
monitoring of implementation; (d) provision by the public sector of cost-effective market support
services; (e) decentralization of decision-making and financial responsibility to local communities
and private operators; (f) more effective cost recovery on publicly funded investments; and (g)
development of viable private sector organizations (producers' associations, water users'
associations, professional and inter-professional organizations etc) that can progressively take over
support services (inputs and products marketing, certain areas of applied research, extension,
credit, management of irrigation schemes etc). Ongoing discussions of the 1994-96 public
expenditure program have concentrated on ways to reduce the number of investment projects and
concentrate public expenditure on activities directly linked to the stated strategy.
D. The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.17   The agricultural sector is characterized by the relative importance of irrigation and by the
long tradition of its farmers in irrigation. After Sudan, Madagascar has the second largest
irrigated agriculture sector in sub-saharan Africa. More than one million hectares or about 50
percent of the total cultivated area of the country is under irrigation or potentially irrigable. It
is estimated that the irrigation sub-sector contributes almost 15 percent of Madagascar's GDP,
70 percent of agricultural production and 88 percent of total rice production and employs directly
or indirectly 85 percent of the active population. Irrigation schemes are located throughout the
country except in the south and in the far north, where possibilities for irrigation are more
limited. While almost all irrigation is based on capturing surface water and directing it by gravity
to final users, there is a broad diversity of size, technology and organization of irrigated systems.
They include the large irrigated schemes (GPIs - covering about 120,000 hectares) of between
3,000 and 30,000 hectares, with sophisticated water control and distribution networks, the
medium-sized schemes (PPIs - covering about 170,000 hectares), often with sophisticated
infrastructure , the micro-schemes (MPIs - covering about 500,000 hectares) and the individual
family schemes (PFs - representing an estimated 300,000 hectares. About two thirds of the area
under irrigation is entirely managed and maintained by small scale resident farmers, without any
intervention on the part of the Government. The remainder is made up of schemes which have
been developed by the Government before and since independence, under major public sector
investment projects designed to increase agricultural production. The potential for new irrigation
schemes is limited, given that about 80 percent of land potentially irrigable is already under
irrigation. Possible expansion is confined to those large scale schemes or areas around them,
situated in the broad alluvial plains of the west coast.



6
Irrigation Development Strategy
1.18   The Government's irrigation subsector development strategy (see declaration of sector
development policy in Annex 2 is consistent with the overall sector development strategy. The
Government maintains its commitment to providing adequate rural infrastructure by pursuing
ways of rehabilitating the irrigation network under its charge (Grand Perimetres Irrigues and
Petits Perimetres Irrigues). Over recent years, almost 50 percent of the Ministry of Agriculture's
budget has been used to maintain and support these publicly-managed schemes. The Government
recognizes that a reduction in the level of investments in these schemes would release scarce
funds to support other services, such as research, extension and rural roads. With this objective
in view, and with the aim of decentralizing financial responsibility to local communities and
achieving more effective cost recovery, the government has begun to withdraw gradually from
the operation and maintenance of irrigated schemes. By encouraging and providing support for
Water Users' Associations (WUAs), the government aims to transfer these functions to the
farmers themselves. Local enterprises will be encouraged to develop capacity to undertake
rehabilitation and maintenance work on behalf of local WUAs. The role of the services of the
Ministry of Agriculture will be redefined to respond to this change of responsibilities. A
considerable intensification of the dialogue between water users and the administration will be
required to achieve the commitment necessary to ensure sustainable transfer of responsibility for
operations and maintenance (O&M). The rationale for the proposed investments under the
ongoing and the proposed irrigation rehabilitation projects is based upon supporting the
government's efforts to this end.
1.19   Considerable public resources have been invested in irrigation, especially in the large
scale and medium-sized schemes (GPIs and PPIs). These schemes were established by the
national government (or by the colonial government before independence) and both management
and maintenance are provided either directly, through the Rural Works Directorate (Direction du
Genie Rurale) or by way of parastatal companies (for the GPIs). Lack of maintenance of these
schemes has led to the increasing need for heavy investments since the 1970s by the Government
with funding from external donors. Currently investments in irrigation rehabilitation absorb
about half of the investment budget of the Ministry of Agriculture (1993 PIP) and a high
proportion of the Ministry's recurrent budget. In an attempt to secure the transfer of the financial
and physical responsibility for the maintenance of these schemes, the government has embarked
upon a program to encourage the creation of Water Users' Associations, to whom the
responsibility for O&M  will be transferred.  It has also started to dissolve the parastatal
companies responsible for the large scale irrigated schemes, although so far with little provision
for structures to replace them (e.g SOMALAC).
1.20   The irrigation subsector benefits from  considerable external financial and technical
assistance. In addition to cofinancing the first PPI irrigation rehabilitation project, the Caisse
Frangaise pour le Developpement (CFD) is funding rehabilitation work on the south-east of the
Lac Alaotra scheme, as well as environment protection on the Imamba-Ivakaka to the west of Lac
Alaotra. The CFD has undertaken a feasibility study of repair and rehabilitation work on the
Morondava GPI, which suffered from cyclone damage in 1991. The European Development Fund
(EDF) is funding irrigation rehabilitation in the south west around Toliara, as part of the first PPI
rehabilitation project and is preparing a project, which will include irrigation rehabilitation in the
north-east. In addition, the EDF is funding a program in support of rehabilitation of micro-
irrigation schemes. The German Government with KfW is funding a rice development project
in the north-west at Betsiboka, which is also relying on water users' associations to ensure long
term sustainability. In addition to the current support it is providing to the Directorate for Rural



7
Works (DGR), the African Development Bank (ADB) has proposed to finance the rehabilitation
of irrigation schemes in the south of Madagascar.
1.21   In spite of the significant levels of public expenditure, the performance of the irrigation
sector remains weak and well below its potential. In particular, yields of agricultural production
have stagnated (national yields of rice are below 2 tons/ha), there has been little attempt to
diversify (rice remains the main crop) and the levels of cost recovery have remained low
(virtually no contributions were received from beneficiaries of medium-scale irrigation schemes
rehabilitated since 1985, until 1993, when some WUAs finally started to collect dues).
1.22   On the basis of this recent performance, the continued high level of public sector funding
in support of irrigation is hard to justify. However, Government continues to expect irrigated
agriculture to make a major contribution to meet the food deficit, which is growing as population
expands faster than growth in agricultural production. Irrigation sector policy should seek
therefore to define solutions which will (a) reduce the call on public sector funding for irrigation
and (b) tackle those constraints which have been at the roots of past poor performance. These
include (i) clarification of the responsibilities of the state and provision of resources to meet these
responsibilities; (ii) clarification of the responsibilities of the water users for operations and
maintenance of rehabilitated irrigation schemes; (iii) strengthening the technical advisory services
available to farmers and WUAs; (iv) protection of the environment on and around irrigation
schemes; (v) reinforcement of land tenure security; (vi) provision of the means to respond to
emergency conditions threatening rural infrastructure; and (vii) coordination of institutions
involved in the development of the sector including external donors. The proposed project
tackles some of these critical constraints.
E. Administrative Organization
1.23   The 1975 Constitution divided the political and administrative structure of the country
into four separate levels of local government, called decentralized collectivities. They include
11,393 Fokontany (village), 1,252 Firaisina (group of Fokontany), 110 Fivondronana
(department) and 6 Faritany (province). Each local government had a popular council, an
executive committee (both elected), and an administrative committee (a technical body composed
of internal departments and representatives of local departments of all ministries). The lack of
an official text specifying areas of intervention for each level of governing body has resulted in
dilution of responsibilities, confusion, and delays associated with approval procedures. All local
governments are tied to central government through a system of hierarchical supervisory
authorities. While it is not expected that the local administration will be associated directly with
the execution of the project, the local Fokontany in the individual project areas will contribute
to sensitizing the local farming population to the advantages and responsibilities of the water
users' associations.
F. Bank Group Involvement
IDA Lending Strategy for Madagascar
1.24   The main objectives of IDA lending to Madagascar are to create sustained and equitable
export-led growth, supporting poverty alleviation, improved environmental management and
enhancing project implementation capacity. The strategy to achieve this objective concentrates



8
on areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage, avoiding direct involvement where either
the private sector or other donors can more effectively take the lead. The priority for promoting
private sector and export-led growth will be to encourage the establishment of sound
macroeconomic management, including a market-determined exchange rate, prudent monetary
and credit policies, fiscal restraint and domestic resource mobilization. The liberalization process
in foreign exchange allocation, tariffs and pricing will be completed. Attention will be given to
improving financial intermediation, simplifying the regulatory framework and eliminating public
and private sector monopolies. Investment projects will address infrastructure constraints and
major problems in the delivery of services in the social sectors. Support for poverty alleviation
will continue through ongoing programs to enhance food security, to generate employment and
to organize emergency actions for vulnerable groups. New infrastructure and social sector
projects will be designed so as to maximize efforts towards poverty reduction. Improvement to
environmental management will continue to be encouraged through the free-standing environment
program which is being supported by the Bank and other donors. New projects will promote
environmentally compatible development and population control. In order to improve project
implementation capacity, the Bank will devote more resources to project supervision and
undertake regular public expenditure reviews to ensure that IDA-financed projects fit with agreed
sector strategies. Institution and capacity building will be important aspects of the program.
Recent Lending Experience
1.25   With support from the Bank and other donors, Madagascar has embarked on a series of
operations in agriculture, infrastructure and human resources, which have been designed to
implement the above strategy. Specific actions have included (a) infrastructure improvement; (b)
removal of remaining marketing constraints; (c) investment in research and extension; (d)
irrigation rehabilitation; (e) education sector development; and (f) health sector development.
However, the execution of many of these programs has been hampered by the weakness and
bureaucracy of the central administration combined with an unwillingness to delegate control of
resources outside of the capital. Funding has emphasized construction and rehabilitation rather
than maintenance.  Preference has been given to public enterprises to carry out project
implementation rather than to encourage local private enterprises. There has been insufficient
involvement of local communities in the definition of development priorities and in the execution
of the programs designed to achieve these development objectives.
1.26   Experience with lending to the irrigation sub-sector in Madagascar has been
disappointing. The first IDA-financed operation was designed to improve irrigation and drainage
of some 12,000 ha in the Lac Alaotra area. The project was carried out between 1970 and 1976.
The post evaluation impact of the project was initially considered satisfactory, based on
satisfactory completion of physical works, but a later review concluded that the project had failed
to meet its fundamental goals, given the lack of sustainable impact on production or farmer
incomes. Poor maintenance, ineffectiveness of the extension services and environmental problems
resulting from excessive drainage were cited as reasons for poor performance. The project had
a negative rate of return. This project was followed by the Morondava irrigation and rural
development project which was implemented between 1974 and 1982. There was considerable
divergence between the Bank and the Government of Madagascar on the project objectives and
components. Benefits were low and the project's rate of return was zero or negative. A later
phase of irrigation development on Lac Alaotra followed between 1984 and 1991, with
cofinancing from CFD and covering 35,000 ha managed by the former parastatal SOMALAC.
This project was rated satisfactory, having successfully achieved its physical objectives, with



9
paddy yields and production increasing significantly. However, sustainability was not assured
because of uncertainty regarding maintenance arrangements. A fourth project in support of
irrigation rehabilitation, the Mangoky agricultural development project, was implemented between
1979 and 1986. As with the preceding projects, implementation was the responsibility of a
parastatal organization, whose inability to execute works or coordinate activities hampered the
project from the start. Crop yields and project benefits were considerably lower than anticipated
and once again the project terminated with a negative rate of return. Over-sophistication in the
technical and managerial design of the project were responsible for its poor performance. The
ex-post impact evaluation recommended, among other things, the need for private sector
involvement and close collaboration with water users and water user associations. It was only
with the implementation of the first Irrigation rehabilitation project (detailed analysis is presented
below), which started in 1985, that a more successful formula for irrigation development and
rehabilitation was developed.
Lessons from Previous IDA Experience
1.27   Experience with irrigation rehabilitation in both Madagascar and elsewhere has
demonstrated the importance of satisfactory cost recovery systems to ensure long term
sustainability of irrigation schemes. In turn, unsatisfactory cost recovery has been linked to
factors such as poor government commitment, unreliable water supply from inefficient irrigation
authorities and unprofitable farming resulting from discouraging price policies.
1.28   The design of the proposed project has taken account of these lessons and builds on past
experience.  Considerable involvement of water users is envisaged at an early stage and
throughout the rehabilitation process. Maintenance and rehabilitation will be ensured by charges
raised by Water Users' Associations on their members. There are no parastatal agencies involved
and attempts will be made to make the water users themselves responsible for reliable water
supply. Local regional services of the Ministry of Agriculture will be strengthened to support
local farmers' organizations and provide professional agricultural extension services for a variety
of crop and livestock enterprises. The development of local enterprises to ensure longer term
maintenance of the irrigation networks will be encouraged by sub-contracting rehabilitation and
maintenance work locally and by developing a mechanism for regular consultation between
project beneficiaries and representatives of the local administration.



10
II. THE FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation
2.1    Objectives. The first Irrigation Rehabilitation project (Cr. 1589-MAG) was designed to
fund the rehabilitation of about 16 medium-sized irrigation networks, irrigating a total area of
about 17,000 ha and of the large-scale SAMANGOKY scheme. During project execution,
estimated to last for five years, but extended to eight years, a systematic approach for scheme
rehabilitation was to be developed, which could be progressively applied to the remainder of the
country's publicly-managed schemes.
2.2   Implementation. Due to political and social problems encountered in late 1989, the
SAMANGOKY component of the project was dropped. Progress on the remaining three
components of the project, namely (a) the inventory of schemes to be rehabilitated and their
preselection; (b) the socio-economic and technical studies for rehabilitation and (c) physical
rehabilitation work has been as follows:
(a) a total of 312 irrigated schemes representing a total of 146,000 ha have been
inventoried. This inventory led to the identification of some 140 schemes, representing
a total of 66,000 ha, which could potentially be rehabilitated based on criteria which
included the motivation of future beneficiaries, the appropriateness of rehabilitation in the
light of the local regional development strategy, road access, the existence of
development support services such as extension and credit and an internal rate of return
above 14 percent. The impact of the local environment was not among these criteria, but
has since become a major focus for the second phase project.
(b) socio-economic and technical studies were carried out by local consulting firms and
included a local physical and socio-economic survey of the scheme, a prefeasibility and
feasibility study of the proposed rehabilitation, preparation of tender documents for the
works, a management handbook of the scheme and an agricultural development plan;
(c) As of December 31, 1993, the first project had completed the rehabilitation of 13,000
ha (76 percent of appraisal estimates) on 21 schemes and work is advanced on the
rehabilitation of a further 4,200 ha on 9 schemes. However, the number of schemes on
which supplementary "corrective" rehabilitation work has been required has lessened the
impact of these physical realizations. 84 Water Users' Associations have been created
on a total of 39 irrigated schemes, comprising more than 29,000 farmers on 17,200 ha
of irrigated farmland.  Agricultural yields and production has increased on certain
schemes by as much as 25 percent, largely due to improved water management but with
little extension input, which could have significantly increased these improvements. The
estimated rate ERR of the project is 18 percent, compared with 24 percent at appraisal,
the difference being due in part to the increased unit costs of rehabilitation. The transfer
of the rehabilitated schemes has yet to be fully effective, since the levels of financial
contributions to maintenance and operations of the schemes by WUA members, the
critical test for sustainability, are still low.
2.3    Cofinancing was provided by the Caisse Francaise pour le Developpement (CFD,
formerly CCCE) and the European Development Fund (EDF). Each cofinancier concentrated
its support upon specific geographic areas, in such a way that the CFD funded the rehabilitation
of the schemes in Antananarivo and Fianarantsoa provinces, the EDF the schemes in Toliara and



I1
Mahajanga province and IDA the schemes in Fianarantsoa and Mahajanga. Differences of
opinion as to the time and detail required prior to rehabilitation meant that work on CFD and
EDF schemes started earlier than IDA-funded schemes. However, implementation on schemes
funded by these two donors slowed after a review of the first five years' experience. There is
now more of a consensus on the pace at which sustainable rehabilitation can be implemented,
although differences persist as to the intensity of technical assistance support required to achieve
sustainable results.
B. Lessons from the First Project
2.4   Inventory Study. The inventory study of the schemes requiring rehabilitation permitted
the preparation of a Master Plan for rehabilitation, but the study had two shortcomings. Firstly,
the real motivation of the beneficiaries was not assessed in depth at inception and the consequent
remedies for encouraging the water user associations to take responsibility for the maintenance
of their schemes were applied without due regard to the individual characteristics and prerogatives
of the different groups. Secondly, the environmental aspects of the rehabilitation proposals were
underestimated, leading in several cases to important difficulties in the maintenance of the
schemes due to excessive sedimentation.
2.5    Feasibility Studies. The processing and approval of the technical feasibility studies for
rehabilitation were handled centrally by the project Coordination Unit and the Ministry of
Agriculture technical services. The local services of the Directorate for Rural Works (DGR) and
the beneficiaries were insufficiently involved and consequently felt dissociated from the process
and the project. This led to insufficient supervision by the local DGR services, which in turn
resulted, in some cases, in (i) technical design faults; (ii) an overestimation of available water
resources; (iii) a lack of appreciation of traditional irrigation systems; and (iv) over-sophisticated
design.
2.6    Definition of Responsibilities. The experience of the first project has shown that the
responsibilities of the parties involved in the project must be clearly defined, understood and
accepted by all from an early stage. This is particularly true for (i) the local technical and
extension services of the DGR and of the Directorate for Agriculture (DA); (ii) the share of
responsibilities for O&M between the government and the Water Users' Associations; (iii) the
responsibilities of the design and supervisory consultants.
2.7    Costs. Unit costs of rehabilitation of the schemes increased disproportionately with other
economic indicators during the project period. This was due in part to (i) an underestimation of
the difficulties involved; (ii) excessive stacking of mobilization and demobilization costs by
entrepreneurs; (ii) contract completion and payment delays; (iii) problems of communication to
and from the interior; and (iv) the limited number of bidders and thus lack of competition for
individual works. Two further potential sources for excessive increases in costs are related to
the inability of Government to meet its 35 percent contribution to civil works costs, allowance
for which was gradually factored into bids by all contractors for new works. Additionally,
operational costs of the project coordinating unit were included in the overheads of supervision
contracts, as a way for making up for the lack of government contribution to these costs. For the
next phase of the project, there is a need for a closer control of quality in the feasibility studies
and the definition of standard designs to bring down unit costs.  More discipline in the
supervision and monitoring of works contracts will help to keep actual costs within the set limits
of the contract bids. Regular and effective payment for contracts completed on schedule must be



12
assured and no further dependence by the project coordinating unit on suppliers' contracts will
be tolerated.
2.8    Environmental Impact. The underestimation of the environmental impact of the project
has had two contradictory effects. On the one hand, the degradation of the catchment areas above
the schemes reduced the quantity of water available to the scheme headworks and increased the
risks of flooding and silting of the irrigation works. On the other hand, the environmental impact
of the project resulting from the rehabilitation of the schemes appears to have been negligible or
at best, positive. An assessment of the environmental impact of new and existing schemes will
help to determine the justification for further investments.
2.9    Water Users' Associations (WUAs). Establishment of WUAs under the first project was
initially guided only by the proposals in the project appraisal report and the rather ambivalent
1985 law which defined the operational structure for WUAs and the obligations of their members.
These included participation in maintenance of schemes; respect of rules and policing; annual
payment of maintenance fees; and participation by users in the investment costs of rehabilitation.
As problems arose, project management modified procedures and obtained legislative action for
the creation of WUAs, which facilitated adaptation to changing circumstances. The main
modifications have been concerned with (a) acquiring greater participation by users, as
rehabilitation took place; (b) relaxing the rigid operating principles of the WUAs; (c) adapting
the procedures to facilitate the adoption of operations and maintenance and policing of the
rehabilitated schemes; and (d) reinforcing support to the beneficiaries and the WUAs. In spite
of these improvements, the level of financial contributions to O&M  does not yet reflect a
sufficient level of commitment. Reasons include (i) selection of the schemes for rehabilitation on
the basis of criteria, which do not take full account of complex local desiderata and social forces;
(ii) insufficient preparation of the WUAs and inadequate consultation with potential members
about their future tasks; (iii) start-up of work on full scale rehabilitation before establishing local
commitment; and (iv) a lack of legislation defining clearly the respective responsibilities of users
and of government, once rehabilitation has been completed.
2.10   Legislation passed in July 1990, made specific reference to the definition of responsibility
for the operations and maintenance and for the policing of irrigated schemes under a section
entitled "transfer of infrastructure management" 1/.  The detailed regulations of this law have
been drafted, discussed with representatives of WUAs and formally adopted in March 1994.
Staff from the DGR continue to provide certain maintenance services; some local officials meet
the costs of rehabilitation work without requesting counterpart funding from the beneficiaries;
others are reluctant to take measures against delinquent WUAs where dues are not paid regularly.
On many schemes, the WUAs are unaware of their responsibilities. The detailed regulations,
which are being finalized, will clarify procedures and policies to avoid future inconsistencies.
2.11   Agricultural Development. Different agricultural extension approaches were used on
rehabilitated schemes, depending upon the resources available to the local Directorate for
Agriculture (DA) or to project entities in the areas benefitting from the project. The agricultural
plans drawn up for the rehabilitated schemes only went into force once the rehabilitation works
had been completed. Thus many farmers located on the upstream areas of schemes, who had
access to existing water, received no immediate extension benefits until the whole scheme had
1/ Section V, Article 16 of law no 90-016 of July 20, 1990. Article 17 specified the Minister responsible for the Public Domain
as responsible for fixing the procedures for this transfer.



13
been completed. Technical messages concentrated on increased rice production. Although a
monitoring and evaluation system was not effective until 1991, preliminary results estimate an
improvement in rice yields from about 1.5 tons/ha to 2.4 tons/ha (national average 2 tons/ha).
These results were due to the return to production of fields previously in fallow; to an
improvement in water control; to an improvement of productivity in the rice fields; and to
intensification of production resulting from double cropping in some areas. Considerably more
impressive agricultural results could be obtained by an earlier introduction of better organized
agricultural extension services and the strengthening of links with agricultural research services.
2.12   Institutional Structure. In addition to two technical Directorates (DGR and DA), project
implementation involved a central coordination unit and two operational directorates of the
Ministry of Agriculture (Programming and Finance, Human Resources Management). A central
Coordinating Committee was intended to bring together the four main Directorates which were
to participate in the project and the Ministry of Public Works. The Committee only met three
or four times in the first two years and then ceased altogether. Due to the relative inactivity of
this Committee, the national coordinator took almost the entire responsibility for the project, with
less than full involvement of the other national directors. During project execution, insufficient
attention was given to ensuring consultation among the different parties (rural works, agricultural
development and farmer organizations) involved in the process of rehabilitation. For the future,
the role of coordination should be better integrated within the existing structure of the Ministry
of Agriculture. There will be a continued need for central coordination given that several separate
directorates are responsible for project implementation.
2.13   Project coordinators were nominated at the provincial level but insufficient attention was
given to defining their roles vis-a-vis the existing provincial directorates and they encountered
difficulties similar to those of the central Coordination Unit. On the rehabilitated irrigation
schemes, "Conseillers-Animateurs" (CA) were posted to supplement the work of the less qualified
rural development agents (ADRs) and irrigation scheme chiefs (Chefs de Reseaux). The CAs
made a sound contribution to facilitating the creation of the WUAs. Their role could be
improved, however, if they are ensured greater stability in their assignments (they currently have
short term contracts), regular budgetary support for their work and clearer responsibilities as part
of the local team designated to ensure maximum contact and collaboration with WUAs at all
stages of the process.



14
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
3.1    The second phase of the irrigation rehabilitation project would be a further tranche of a
national program, which began in 1985, to rehabilitate and to transfer operations and maintenance
responsibility for public irrigation schemes to water users. The program remains a high priority
for the government since, if successful, it will mean the release of scarce public funds currently
tied up in irrigation maintenance, which will be available for alternative development priorities.
About 50 percent of the 1993 agriculture sector PIP was allocated to expenditures related to the
maintenance or development of public irrigation schemes. The 1994 public investment program
envisages a significant decrease in the proportion of such expenditures (to 34 percent) in support
of public irrigation schemes. The project will contribute to this tendency to rationalize the public
expenditure program  for the agricultural sector.  It will also ensure the more equitable
deployment of public expenditure, which has over recent years benefitted farmers who cultivate
land on public irrigation schemes. In these respects, the project will contribute to the realization
of the Government's irrigation policy, as announced in Annex 2. The project is in line with the
Bank's country assistance program in support of accelerated growth, poverty reduction and
socially, financially and environmentally sustainable policies and programs. Lessons drawn from
the project will contribute to the search for a sustainable solution for the operation and
maintenance of the large scale irrigation schemes whose rehabilitation has been funded by several
donors over the past three decades but whose sustainability remains elusive.
3.2    Rehabilitation of irrigation schemes can lead to potential increases in productivity and
intensification of production for smallholders, when accompanied by professional extension
support. As such the project responds to the objective of improved food security, supported
jointly by the government and the Bank. More progress can be made in this area by adopting
the system of extension management and training currently being introduced under the national
agricultural extension project (PNVA, Cr. 2150-MAG).
B. Project Objectives and Design
3.3    Objectives. The project would support the country development strategy on four fronts:
(a) Promoting growth. It would contribute to increased agricultural output through better water
management and intensified agricultural extension. (b) Poverty reduction - it would contribute to
improved rural incomes and food security by improving production and productivity on irrigation
schemes in 5 of Madagascar's 6 rural provinces; (c) improving environmental management - it
would develop techniques for environmental assessment of irrigation rehabilitation and reinforce
local capacity for environmental assessment; (d) enhancing project implementation capacity - it
would establish operational procedures for the transfer of management and financial responsibility
for the operations and maintenance of public irrigation schemes to water users and thus would
serve to reduce the burden of public expenditure on the maintenance of such irrigation
infrastructure. The project would build on experience gained under the first Irrigation
Rehabilitation project. It would strengthen the effectiveness of decentralized public services and
the control and supervision of public works at regional and local levels.  Through the
decentralization and strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's regional activities, the project
would contribute to improving coordination of activities of local projects and programs, currently
operating independently. It would contribute to improve levels of income of the rural population



15
using accessible and proven technology and would serve to promote private sector initiatives,
local consultants and engineering services. It would also establish criteria for the selection of
schemes to be rehabilitated taking account of environmental implications.
3.4    Another project objective will be to contribute to a change in the approach towards
community development. This change should result from realigning the present roles of the state
and of the local communities and be reflected in the attitudes and the behavior of government
agents and of members of local communities. The members of the Water Users' Associations
would become the real managers and operators of their irrigation schemes, while the state,
through its agents, would become a supplier of services. To achieve this ambitious objective and
to change the perception of the role of state and farmers, techniques will be developed which will
ensure closer collaboration between local beneficiaries of project activities and representatives of
the local and central administration.
3.5   In the longer term, the responsibility for operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes which will have been rehabilitated under the first and second projects will revert to the
water users on these schemes. In order to ensure successful transfer, the Government needs to
invest funds to render the schemes operational. In many cases schemes have fallen into such
disrepair that it would be unrealistic to expect the water users to assume financial and operational
responsibility without such investments. Financing under this project is designed to meet this
need. Following rehabilitation, although the transfer of the schemes' operations and maintenance
is assumed by the water users, the schemes still remain public assets. In its role as proprietor
of this asset the State will still retain certain responsibilities for maintenance and reconstruction
of complex headworks and primary canal systems. As the responsibility for each scheme is
transferred to water users, the detailed breakdown of responsibilities between the State and
farmers will be defined in a manual, to be prepared during the detailed phase of definition of the
rehabilitation works and the costing of their maintenance and operation.
3.6    Since the objective of transferring the responsibility for rehabilitated infrastructure goes
beyond the medium-sized irrigation schemes (PPIs), covered by the first project, the lessons and
the experience drawn from the project will provide guidelines for future efforts on some large-
scale irrigation schemes, which have benefitted from recent rehabilitation works and whose
sustainable upkeep and maintenance represents a major liability for public funding.
3.7    Main Features.  The project will support activities (a) to transfer operations and
maintenance (O&M) to water users on rehabilitated schemes from the first project and ensure full
farmer commitment to the process; (b) to strengthen local agricultural advisory and technical
services in support of the newly rehabilitated schemes; (c) to evaluate the environmental risks and
measures to protect rehabilitation; and (d) to start on further rehabilitation using a more gradual
approach which ensures user commitment as the process of rehabilitation goes forward.
Responsibilities of the state and of water users will be defined and promulgated as part of new
legal regulations. Means will be made available to enable the government to strengthen regional
and local services, as part of a broader effort to decentralize activities of the administration.
Resources are also included to support training, environmental studies and monitoring and
evaluation activities.
3.8    The Project.  The new project will begin by ensuring the successful transfer of
operations and management of the 30 irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the first project.
There are still certain works which are required to ensure the proper functioning of these
schemes. In addition, emergency funding would be provided to repair some of the damage caused



16
to these schemes by cyclones Daisy and Geralda in early 1994. These extra works represent a
valid testing ground for the introduction of more intensive farmer participation. At the same
time, the vulnerability of the schemes to environmental degradation will be assessed. Once
commitment by water users on the existing rehabilitated schemes has been established, then
rehabilitation work on a further 4,000 ha of new irrigation schemes may proceed, on the evidence
of proven commitment by beneficiaries (e.g. cash contributions to O&M or works carried out by
the WUAs), which will be evaluated and reviewed as the process goes forward. New physical
rehabilitation will be modest during this project (4,000 ha compared with 17,000 ha under the
first project). This is due to the important emphasis, which will be placed on institutional
strengthening and the adoption of techniques, including participative training, which will ensure
long term sustainability of investments already made under the first project and the definition of
an approach which, if successful, can be applied on a broader scale during subsequent projects.
3.9    The project will fund actions in the previous provinces of Mahajanga, Toliara,
Antananarivo, Fianarantsoa, where rehabilitation works have already been carried out under the
first phase project and also on the large scale irrigation schemes in the Lac Alaotra area. New
rehabilitation will follow an indicative program traced out by the PPI Coordination Unit and
based on the survey of irrigation schemes qualifying for rehabilitation, under the first project.
Identification of the additional schemes which will benefit from the project is not possible at this
stage, since the choice will depend upon evidence of commitment by the WUAs.
3.10   The Challenge. In spite of the problems encountered during the first phase, water users
have never rejected the principle of assuming operating, maintenance and policing responsibilities
of the irrigation schemes by their associations. The challenge of the proposed second phase
project is to convert this willingness into concrete commitment and into the mobilization of funds
by members of the WUAs. Proven results on this initial sample of irrigated perimeters (30/40)
are essential to promote, as a next step, a larger scale transfer of public irrigation schemes to
beneficiaries.
C. Summary Project Description
3.11   The project would comprise six main components, which would be implemented
progressively over a five-year period:
(a)    Cyclone damage repairs and corrective rehabilitation works, as a means to ensure
the transfer of operations and maintenance to water users on schemes
rehabilitated under the first project, subject to full farmer commitment to the
process;
(b)    Environmental protection, to include an environmental assessment of existing
rehabilitated schemes, definition of guidelines for environmental protection works
on new schemes, local capacity building in environment assessment,
implementation of protection works and the preparation of guidelines for natural
disaster compensation.
(c)    Rehabilitation of new  irrigation schemes - comprising programming  in
collaboration with beneficiaries, local staff and design consultants, preparation
of feasibility studies and works execution.



17
(d)    Support for the services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
to ensure central project coordination and more effective field service operations
in nine decentralized Directorates, where the project will be active;
(e)    Training of staff and farmers with an emphasis on developing local capacity and
talents to ensure sustainable project activities for future phases of the
rehabilitation program;
(f)    Monitoring and evaluation of project impact and audit of accounts.
3.12   Total project costs, including the provision for price and physical contingencies, is
estimated at FMG 89.5 million (US$25.7 million) of which FMG 49.7 million (US$14.3 million)
would be in foreign exchange. The Ministry of Agriculture, by way of its technical directorates
responsible for Rural Works and Agriculture, with the support of the directorates of programming
and finance would be responsible for project execution. A national coordination unit, already
established under the Secretary General to coordinate activities of the first project, would
centralize monitoring and evaluation of project activities, would coordinate informally the
activities of the project's executive directorates and would ensure consistency between project
activities and broader policy options of the Ministry such as (a) the public expenditure program
for the irrigation sub-sector and (b) the decentralization of activities of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
D. Detailed Project Description
3.13   Cyclone Damage Repair and Corrective Rehabilitation Works (US$4.1 million): The
first two years of the project will concentrate on getting a commitment, as demonstrated by
contributions in cash and in kind from members of the WUAs on schemes which have been
rehabilitated under the first project. Through the intensification of relations between these
associations and field staff (Genie Rural, Agriculture staff and the Rural Development Agents -
ADRs), support will be provided for the following:
(a) implementation of the new regulations on the transfer of irrigation schemes, through
local workshops during which the specific implications for individual schemes would be
defined and agreed;
(b) emergency repairs of damage caused by cyclones Daisy and Geralda, to be carried
out during the first twelve months of the project;
(c) implementation of corrective works (as identified by the diagnostic study to be carried
out using PPF funding) and environment mitigation works (as identified by the
environmental impact study, referred to below - para. 3.14) would be carried out to
ensure satisfactory operation of the newly rehabilitated schemes, either directly by WUAs
under the supervision of DGR staff or by consulting engineers and local construction
companies under the supervision of regional and local Rural Works (GR) staff, in both
cases in conjunction with water users;
(d) intensification of agricultural extension measures in support of agricultural operations
on the newly rehabilitated schemes, using an extension management approach adapted to



18
local requirements. The potential role of associations for women producers on the
rehabilitated irrigated schemes will be given special attention.
3.14   Environmental Protection (US$1.5 million): The project will contribute to remedy or
to avoid adverse environmental effects of rehabilitation on past and future rehabilitated schemes.
Environmental assessments will be conducted prior to all future rehabilitation. Procedures,
parameters and criteria to be included in this assessment will be based on the experience of the
30 irrigated schemes rehabilitated under the first project. Since the details of the environmental
impact of rehabilitation on these schemes is only partially known, the project will fund a study
of the impact of environmental degradation on the operation of these schemes. The study would
be carried out in three phases (a) identification of environmental problems on each scheme; (b)
definition of proposed solutions; and (c) implementation of recommendations. Phases (a) and (b)
will be carried out by specialized consultants in conjunction with staff of the special Environment
Unit to be established in the DGR. Implementation of the recommendations of the study would
be carried out jointly by local water users, consulting engineers and construction companies
depending upon the complexity of works involved and supervision would be the responsibility
of the Rural Works Directorate staff. Decisions on the complexity of environment mitigation
measures to be undertaken would be guided by consideration of economic viability, in line with
criteria being developed under the National Environment Program (Cr. 2125-MAG).
3.15   To make the fullest use of this exercise, the project will support the preparation of an
environmental assessment guide for irrigation schemes.  The guide will make use of the
conclusions of the study mentioned in para. 3.14.  It will also include a synthesis of the
approaches and techniques of watershed management currently known and applied in
Madagascar's four main ecological regions. This guide will contribute to the assessment of
environment mitigation measures to be included in the design of future work on the rehabilitation
of new irrigated schemes. For all new rehabilitation, an environment assessment will be included
as part of the detailed feasibility study, to be carried out in close collaboration with beneficiaries.
3.16   As part of an effort to strengthen the national capacity for environment assessment, the
project would provide resources to train local consultants in the assessment of environment
mitigation by organizing seminars based on the experience gained under the project. This should
improve the capacity of local companies and contribute to more effective rehabilitation design and
implementation in the future. Such training will be carried out in collaboration with similar efforts
being launched under the Environment Action Program (Cr 2125-MAG).
3.17   The detrimental effects of cyclones and other major natural hazards before, during and
after rehabilitation of selected irrigated schemes can be significant. Responsibility for making
good the damages caused by such natural hazards is not clearly defined. In most cases, the extent
of the damage goes beyond the financial capacity of the water users' own resources, particularly
during the early years following rehabilitation. The principle of compensation from public funds
in such cases is acknowledged by the government, which has a limited annual appropriation in
the national budget for such liabilities. However, the procedures and criteria for allocating such
funds do not automatically compensate damage on irrigation schemes. The project will fund a
study of the current legislation covering disaster compensation which will propose clearer
guidelines for compensating damages to irrigation works during rehabilitation.
3.18   Rehabilitation of New Irrigation Schemes (US$8.2 million): Provision is included for
the rehabilitation of a further 4,000 ha of additional schemes. Preliminary identification of the
schemes has been made in the inventory study prepared under the first project but final selection



19
will depend upon (a) the level of firm commitment identified among the water users; (b) the
economic viability of the schemes (currently 14 percent minimum) and (c) the environmental
assessment of the schemes. Implementation of this component will be carried out in phases, each
phase designed to reaffirm continued commitment by the beneficiaries. This will require a more
gradual process of rehabilitation than under the first project but will help to guarantee longer term
sustainability. The provision for new rehabilitation of 4,000 ha is only indicative and, if the
earlier phases of the project are successful, it is expected that this component could be
considerably expanded, using funding from alternative sources, such as the CFD or the EDF,
who should therefore be closely associated during supervision of the project.
3.19   The first phase will include in-depth orientation studies (etude approfondie d'orientation -
EAO), during which water users, with support from technical staff, will define an irrigation
master plan (schema directeur d'amenagement - SDA), providing details of such works as can
be undertaken immediately by the users. The SDA will also define those works which will be
undertaken during subsequent stages, subcontracted to outside enterprises. During this phase,
the willingness of the water users to start immediately on simple rehabilitation and the quality of
the work carried out will provide a good indication of the commitment to longer term O&M.
There would be regular contact between the field team and the local population on the irrigation
schemes to define the responsibilities of all parties once rehabilitation begins. Support and
assistance in the creation of Water Users' associations would be provided.  Up to six months
should be allowed to establish the level of commitment of the water users.
3.20   During the second phase, which would proceed once a sufficient level of commitment has
been confirmed by the local field team, the agricultural development plan and the individual
phases of rehabilitation would be determined. On the basis of the agricultural development plan
accepted by the water users, the detailed rehabilitation proposal (avant projet detaille - APD) and
tender documents would be prepared for those segments of work which cannot be carried out by
the farmers themselves.
3.21   The third phase, (the works phase), would follow, based on the in-depth orientation study
(EAO), which should have identified those types of works which could be carried out under the
supervision of the DGR, with direct input from the beneficiaries and those more complex works,
for which tender documents and works supervision would be handled by consulting engineers.
In each case, the work would be planned and executed in such a way that local commitment and
contributions from the beneficiary community can be assessed, as the works progress and
interrupted in the event of flagging commitment.
3.22   Support to the MEADR (US$5.2 million): The project would provide support to the
Directorates of Rural Works, Agriculture, Programming and Finance, Lands (Domaines) and
Water and Forests to enable the MEADR to provide more professional and effective technical
support services for irrigation scheme operation and maintenance and transfer of agricultural
technology. Emphasis would be (i) on ensuring the organization of farmer associations to take
over responsibility for irrigation O&M; (ii) on strengthening the transfer of both agronomic and
irrigation management technology; (iii) on reinforcing local coordination between the different
local services; and (iv) on strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation of public
resource mobilization and use. The project will support these services in nine zones, as part of
support for a more generalized decentralization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development's services envisaged under the new constitution. The zones have been selected in
five out of six of Madagascar's former faritany (provinces), on the basis of the following criteria:
density of irrigation schemes already rehabilitated; consolidation of existing professional



20
agricultural structures already under way; the presence of the pilot national agricultural extension
program; the existence of satisfactory local infrastructure and the existence of large-scale irrigated
schemes either being rehabilitated or consolidated. The zones which have been identified to
benefit from project support under this component are the following: Miarinarivo, Fianarantsoa,
Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara, Antsirabe, Ambositra, Manakara, Ambatondrazaka/
Aparafaravolo. By providing resources in support of the move to more decentralized activities,
the project would emphasize improved coordination among ongoing programs and projects in
each of the regions where it is active.
3.23   The national directorate of agriculture would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural
extension services in each of the nine zones covered by the project, over a three year period.
Using a system of agricultural extension adapted to local needs, such as that adopted under the
pilot national agricultural extension project, the DA would introduce systematic in-service training
of extension staff in the new zones and would ensure improved links between extension and
research through adaptive research and on-farm trials, with the active participation of farmers.
Extension services would be offered to farmers both on and off the rehabilitated irrigation
schemes. Through the initial orientation workshops and follow-up monitoring workshops, all
local staff working for projects, with a vocation for improving agricultural extension and research
should be associated, to ensure coordination and limit duplication, irrespective of whether projects
are supported by governmental or non-governmental resources. Coordination with the National
Agricultural Research project (Cr. 2042-MAG) would be important to ensure a steady flow of
technical recommendations to the extension staff.  Funding for such coordination could be
provided out of the present project or by the National Agricultural Research project, as defined
in an annual agreement to be drawn up between those responsible for the two projects each year.
Special support would be provided to ensure training for the creation of women's groups and
associations on the rehabilitated schemes. To this end, the annual work program will define
resources to be mobilized in support of the activities of public or non-governmental institutions
specialized in the promotion of women's activities.
3.24   The geographical limits of these proposed zones during the transition phase, while
national decentralization decisions are being confirmed, will be based on the limits of existing
fivondronana (departments). In each case the proposed area corresponds to the area currently
covered by existing CIRVA or CIRGR. For each of the local directorates, the project would
fund investment and operational expenses including equipment and vehicles, the rehabilitation of
local offices and accommodation, field allowances and training of staff. The levels of field
allowances paid under the project should be consistent with a single policy to be applied for all
projects under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture. Assurances were received during
negotiations that the Ministry would fix a common policy for the application of field
allowances for all projects under its authority before the end of 1994 (para 8.2 - v). The
project will also support actions to increase the autonomy of decision-making at the decentralized
level and the delegation of financial responsibility for certain current activities.
3.25   Resources will also be made available to ensure coordination of project activities, with
emphasis placed on giving direct responsibility for implementation to the Ministry's Directorates
concerned. The national project coordination unit would continue to represent the main contact
for external donors to the project and would continue to act as Secretary to the project
coordinating committee, to which outside donors to the irrigation sub-sector would be invited for
key programming and budgeting meetings. The coordination unit would centralize the results of
project monitoring and evaluation activities, carried out by the respective Directorates responsible
for implementation and would commission the annual auditing of project accounts.



21
3.26   Training (US$0.7 million): Training of field staff, local technical and administrative
staff and national level technical and coordination staff will continue to be a major component
of the second phase project. Special emphasis will be placed on regular and continuous in-
country training programs for field staff, undertaken by local facilitators. Training in financial
management, including computerization, and monitoring and evaluation will also be supported
for local, regional and central level staff. Overseas training will only be considered on a case-by-
case basis, in the framework of a detailed training program to be included in the annual work
program submitted for agreement of all cofinanciers. The onus will be on project management
to demonstrate why such training cannot be undertaken locally and to indicate the direct benefits
in terms of career advancement for the candidates retained.
3.27   Monitoring and Evaluation/Audit (US$0.2 million): The project would provide for
continuous monitoring and evaluation of project impact including increases in production and
yields, adoption rates of extension messages and performance by water users' associations both
in collection of dues for O&M and in implementation of operation and maintenance of the
rehabilitated schemes (ref para 4.20).
3.28   Operations and Maintenance by Water Users Associations (US$1.3 million): Once
rehabilitated schemes have been formally transferred to WUAs, maintenance and operations will
be carried out by the Associations. Funding under this component will come solely from the
WUAs. Collection of contributions from members of Water Users' Associations will be a critical
parameter to be monitored in project execution. To the extent that such funds would represent
the seed money for the future long term sustainability of the rehabilitated irrigation schemes,
monitoring of the mobilization of funds by WUAs has been included as a specific project
component. Contributions to the WUAs by members will be monitored closely during project
implementation.
E. Project Costs and Financing Costs
3.29   The project would be implemented over a five year period from the date of project
effectiveness. Total project costs, including price and physical contingencies, are estimated at
FMG 89.5 million (US$25.7 million) of which FMG 49.7 million (56 percent) would be in
foreign exchange and FMG 10. 1 million (11 percent) taxes. Base costs are estimated at US$21.2
million equivalent and contingencies amount to US$4.5 million equivalent (17.5 percent of total
costs). Project costs by category of expenditure are summarized in Table 3.1 below and detailed
cost tables are provided in Annex 1. Per hectare costs of rehabilitation, studies and works
supervision are based on actual average costs of the most recent contracts awarded under the first
project.



22
Table 3.1: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project Estimated Project Costs a/
(US$ million)
Local    Foreign     Total
A. Cyclone rehabilitation and corrective             1.4       2.7        4.1
rehabilitation works
B. Environmental assessment and protection          0.6        0.9        1.5
C. Rehabilitation of additional schemes             2.8        5.4        8.2
D. Support for services of Ministry of Agriculture  2.5        2.7        5.2
E. Training                                         0.4        0.3        0.7
F. Monitoring and Evaluation                        0.1        0.1        0.2
G. Operations and maintenance by WUAs                1.3       0.0        1.3
Base Cost                                            9.1      12.1       21.2
Physical Contingencies                              0.9        1.2        2.1
Price Contingencies                                  1.4       1.0        2.4
Total Project Costs                                 11.4      14.3       25.7
a/ Includes US$2.7 million of taxes and duties
3.30   Contingency Allowances. Assumptions on physical and price contingencies used in the
calculation of project costs are presented in Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2: Physical and Price Contingency Assumptions
PYI 1PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5
Physical contingencies for rehabilitation,  10  10      10     10     10
equipment, vehicles and materials (%)
Local inflation rates (%)                10     9      8       8      8
Foreign inflation rates (%)             2.0    2.5    2.7    2.5    2.6
(MUV Index May 1994)
Exchange rates for FMG/US$ at mid point   3000   3300   3630   3630   3630
of project years
3.31   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Incremental recurrent costs average US$517,000 per
annum (see Tables 7, 9, and 10 of Annex 1), including contingencies and cover the supervision
costs of the Rural Works Directorate, the costs of intensified agricultural extension activities of
the Department of Agriculture and the costs of project coordination.  This represents the
equivalent of US$13 per farm family working on the irrigated schemes. Approximately 50
percent of this cost is attributable to intensified extension efforts. Taking account of the benefits



23
of improved extension which will also accrue to those farmers who live in the areas surrounding
the irrigation schemes, the cost per family would be roughly equivalent to the per family costs
of agricultural services provided under the pilot agricultural extension service (approximately
US$5 per farm family).
3.32   Project Sustainability. Project execution places a heavy emphasis on the establishment
of commitment by local water users' associations to take over responsibility for costs of operation
and maintenance of the rehabilitated irrigation schemes. To the extent that this transfer of
responsibility is effectively carried out, the conditions for longer term sustainability of the
rehabilitation investments will have been established. The project will introduce, through its
participative approach to encourage farmers' involvement in local decision-making, awareness
of the need for joint responsibility for maintenance and upkeep. Through more professional and
regular farm extension services, which will require a continuing financial commitment from the
Government of approximately $6 per farm family per annum (see para 3.31), the project will also
contribute to reestablish a degree of confidence between the administration and the farming
community, which is currently lacking and which should, if successful, ensure longer term
sustainability of project efforts.
F. Financing
3.33   IDA Credit. The IDA Credit of US$21 million would finance an estimated 83 percent
of total project costs. IDA would disburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs or 85% of
the local costs, net of taxes, of the incremental funds involved in the transfer of operations and
maintenance of schemes rehabilitated under the first project, of the environmental protection
measures, of the new rehabilitation works, of support services for the MEADR and of training,
monitoring and evaluation. The Government of Madagascar would pass on all funds to the
MEADR. PPF funds would be mobilized to meet the costs of the repair of urgent cyclone
damage, participation workshops and start-up of the environmental diagnostic study.
3.34   Co-Financing. Project cofinancing arrangements had not been finalized as of the date
of appraisal, due to the suspension of disbursements by the CFD and FED. The project has been
designed in such a way that, once the intentions of cofinanciers in support of activities covered
by the project, have become firm, they can then be included in the overall program of work
under the national irrigation coordination unit.  Should there be real progress in achieving
successful transfer of rehabilitated schemes to beneficiaries during the early years of the project,
then the area for future rehabilitation (presently fixed tentatively at 4,000 ha) could be increased
significantly, for which cofinancing from alternative sources would be required.
3.35   Government's Share. Government's participation in the project costs is estimated at
US$2.8 million and would cover 24 percent of the local currency costs of all project activities.
This figure represents almost 11 percent of total project costs, including taxes and duties. The
Government contribution would be equivalent to approximately 5 percent of funding from
domestic sources in the 1993 agricultural public investment program. The figure is considered
high enough to ensure Government commitment to the project but is also sensitive to the extreme
scarcity of budget resources, which is not expected to improve during the project period. If
successful, the project should lead to reduced public expenditure in the irrigation sector over
time. Close supervision of the timely release of Government's share of project funding will be
required and performance will be monitored at the time of the annual budget review by
cofinanciers. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government shall carry out,



24
no later than October 31 each year, in consultation with all concerned donors, (a) an annual
review of the Public Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector (8.2 - viii); and (b)
prepare a proposed work program, budget and financing plan, including training proposals
for the project for the forthcoming year and details of procurement procedures to be
followed (para 8.2 - i).
3.36   Beneficiaries' Share.  Contributions from members of Water Users' Associations
towards the operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated schemes is estimated at FMG 50,000
(US$17) per hectare per annum. Such contributions are expected to average approximately
US$340,000 per annum during the project period for a total of 20,000 ha rehabilitated under this
and the first project. Total contributions from WUAs are expected to represent US$1.7 million
over the project period.
Table 3.3: Proposed Project Financing
US$ million      Percent
IDA                         21.2          82.6
Beneficiaries                1.7           6.7
Government                   2.8          10.7
Total                       25.7         100.0



25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1    The proposed project is a follow-up to the ongoing first irrigation project, cofinanced by
the Caisse francaise pour le d6veloppement (CFD), the European Development Fund (EDF) and
IDA (Cr. 1589-MAG). An initial project preparation report was prepared by the FAO/CP after
a mission to Madagascar in October 1992. Following the production of a major internal
evaluation of the first project activities between 1985 to 1992 2/ in March 1993, the shape of the
follow-up project was considerably modified by the appraisal mission which visited Madagascar
in March/April 1993. In order to ensure that the conclusions of the appraisal mission were in
line with the objectives and intentions of the Malagasy Ministry of Agriculture and the
Directorates who were to be responsible for project implementation, a post-appraisal mission to
Madagascar was carried out in August 1993, followed by a visit in November 1993 from a
delegation from the MEADR to review the draft appraisal report, before circulation within the
Bank. In this way, closer participation of Malagasy authorities in the definition of the final
project description has been assured.
B. Project Implementation
4.2    Project Implementation Timetable. The project will be implemented over five years
starting in mid-1994, with disbursements extending over seven years. The environmental impact
study and the diagnostic study of the schemes rehabilitated under the first project should be
carried out at the beginning of the project period. These studies could be launched before project
effectiveness with support from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Activities during the first
two years of the project will concentrate on confirming commitment of water users associations
to operations and maintenance of the newly rehabilitated schemes. Rehabilitation of additional
schemes will start only when clear commitment has been established and be carried out over the
last three years of the project.
4.3    The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
Overall responsibility for project activities would reside with the Secretary General of the
MEADR, as senior civil servant in that Ministry. The Secretary General would chair a project
coordinating committee, comprising the Directors of the main Directorates responsible for project
implementation, namely Rural Works (G6nie Rural), Agriculture, Programming and Finances,
Domaines and Water and Forests. The secretariat to this committee would be assured by the
national coordinator for irrigation rehabilitation, a Coordination Unit established under the first
project, whose functions would be marginally changed to provide greater delegation to the central
and regional staff of the MEADR Directorates to carry out their respective responsibilities for
project implementation. These would be as follows:
4.4    Directorate of Rural Works (DGR) would be responsible for engineering design of civil
works for irrigation schemes, selected for rehabilitation. During the first project, the DGR has
2/ Rapport d'Evaluation 1985 a 1992 by the Cellule Suivi-Evaluation. Coordination Nationale du Projet de R6habilitation des
PPI, Mars 1993



26
acquired considerable experience in the process of selection of consulting engineers, in the
definition of supervisory responsibilities and in the definition of appropriate timetables to carry
out rehabilitation work. Full use of this experience and of the recommendations included in the
evaluation report 3/ prepared by the PPI coordination unit should be made during implementation
of the second phase of the project.
4.5    The DGR will be responsible for ensuring the execution of the irrigation rehabilitation
funded under the project, including the environment protection measures. Once the rehabilitation
works have been carried out, the DGR will ensure that a formal transfer agreement defining the
details of the transfer of the rehabilitated schemes to water users. In the transfer agreement,
enunciating the O&M activities for each of the schemes, the DGR will define the respective
responsibilities between the water users (WUAs) and the state. In some cases, where there are
relatively simple headworks and water control installations, the continuing responsibilities of the
state will be limited to technical advice and extension. In the case of larger schemes, with more
complex water management systems, it may be necessary for the state (through the DGR) to
maintain direct responsibility for the O&M of parts of the rehabilitated scheme. In such cases,
details of the financial contributions from the state and from beneficiaries should be included in
the text of the transfer agreement between the DGR and the WUAs.
4.6    The central staff of the DGR would (a) prepare the detailed tender documents for new
scheme rehabilitation; (b) launch tenders for civil engineering and for surveillance contracts by
consultant engineers; (c) provide technical support to staff in the decentralized offices; (d)
supervise project implementation at the regional and local levels. Three services would be
responsible in the central DGR for project activities and would be made responsible for the
technical supervision of the rehabilitation studies: (i) a "network" service responsible for checking
the technical specifications, such as the baseline parameters, water flows, technical designs, the
stability of the works proposed; (ii) a second "environment" unit will check the viability of the
schemes from an environmental perspective. This unit will be responsible for launching specific
environment impact and mitigation studies for any proposed extensions; (iii) a third technical
monitoring and evaluation unit would check on the respect of contractual obligations. Short term
specialized consultants will be mobilized to help the DGR to ensure the effectiveness of these
units.
4.7    At the decentralized level, the Genie Rural bureau chief would be responsible for studies
and works control and supervision on the ground and for water user participation during the
rehabilitation phase. He would be supported by an engineer at the level of each Circonscription
where the project is operational and on the ground by an irrigation schemes advisor (Conseiller
Hydraulique). The decentralized services would be backed up by short term external technical
assistance, which would provide support in the areas of scheme design and technical supervision
of the rehabilitation works, as well as on environmental aspects. Irrigation scheme advisors (CH)
would be selected for each new and existing scheme, and would participate as members of the
field team (ET) to establish close relations with the WUAs on each scheme to be rehabilitated or
which have been rehabilitated. The field team would spend several months on the irrigation
schemes with the water users to appreciate in detail the needs and priorities of the latter. They
would thus be closely associated in the design of the rehabilitation works and made aware early
on of the implications for future 0 & M. The CH would contribute to the in-depth orientation
3/ Rapport d'Evaluation 1985-1992 - Coordination Nationale du Projet de Rehabilitation des Petits Primetres IrriguEs, Cellule
Suivi-Evaluation, Mars 1993



27
studies (EAO), and evaluate the quality of work by local communities, as the first step to
ensuring longer termn commitment. As part of the field team (ET), the CH would assist in the
calculation and definition of the costs of operations and maintenance of the schemes after
rehabilitation and would participate in meetings with WUAs to ensure that members fully
understand the implications of these costs and charges.
4.8    Depending upon the complexity of the works to be carried out (to be evaluated by the
central DGR in conjunction with project supervision and advisory staff at the time of the
preparation of the annual work program), the DGR would either use its own engineers or
subcontract to local or international engineering consultants for design and technical supervision.
The central DGR services would coordinate procedures for the selection of consultants to
undertake in-depth orientation studies (EAO), followed by the preparation of the tender
documents for major works. The DGR (central and local staff) would supervise the work of such
consultants and of the construction companies commissioned after tender to carry out new
rehabilitation works. The DGR local staff would supervise the work of WUAs or local enterprises
selected to carry out light rehabilitation works. The local staff of the DGR would work with
WUAs to define the respective share of responsibilities for operation and maintenance of newly
rehabilitated schemes, between the water users and the public authorities, to reflect the new
regulations to this effect. The Ministerial decree providing for these regulations was signed on
March 16, 1994.
4.9    The project would ensure increased local responsibility of regional and sub-regional
echelons of the DGR, by delegating direct responsibility to the local offices for routine
operational and financial activities. Further delegation of responsibilities for technical control and
supervision will be increased, as local management competence is identified and confirmed.
4.10   The DGR would take back the functions the Rural Institutions Support Services (AIR),
which has been attached to the PPI Coordination unit since 1990. The main activities of the
central AIR Service will continue to provide training and support to the local rural institutions
support services, who in turn provide back-up to the Conseillers Animateurs (CA). The CA, as
member of the field team (equipe de terrain), would remain responsible for the creation,
facilitation, monitoring and support of the WUAs. The staff of the AIR would continue to work
closely with the Directorate of Agriculture's Regular Training Service (Division de Formation
Continue) and would act as Subject Matter Specialists (Techniciens specialises) for the regular
training of agricultural extension staff on all questions concerning support to and development
of farmers' associations.
4.11   Support for the DGR under the project would include vehicles and equipment, training,
field allowances and operational costs of vehicles to permit effective supervision of EAOs and
APDs by consulting engineers and rehabilitation works by civil works companies. Funds would
also be available for specialized consultant services and short term technical assistance to
supervise the work of the DGR rural engineers. DGR staff would benefit from the intensive
training programs offered under the project.
4.12   Directorate for Agriculture (DA) would be responsible for the provision of agricultural
extension services to farmers on the rehabilitated schemes. The main objective of support to the
DA under the project would be the provision of a pluridisciplinary professional agricultural
extension service to all farmers on or around the irrigated schemes. Agricultural extension
workshops would be organized in those areas, where the project is currently operational to bring
together all those services or projects which have a vocation for agricultural extension. Through



28
these workshops, measures to rationalize multiple extension services in each zone of the project
would be defined. In the first years of the project, field services would be strengthened in those
areas where rehabilitation has already been completed and the principles of an agricultural
extension system adapted to local conditions along the lines similar to those being introduced in
areas covered by the PNVA would be introduced. The provision of improved extension services
will not be limited only to those farmers on the rehabilitated irrigation schemes. It would be
available to farmers on and around the newly rehabilitated schemes to ensure access to improved
technology by the whole farming population over time. In particular, the Directorate would
organize continuous training of field staff, in conjunction with subject matter specialists
(techniciens specialises) from FOFIFA and other research/development institutions, such as crop-
or livestock-specific project entities or organizations. As such, support to the DA under the
project will represent a second phase of the ongoing pilot agricultural extension project
(Cr. 2150-MAG).
4.13   The project will fund vehicles and equipment, training, field allowances and operational
costs of vehicles necessary to permit the DA to provide professional field extension services on
a regular basis to farm families in the project areas. Funding will also be provided to permit the
local extension services to organize local research and development trials and to carry out seed
multiplication in conjunction with local farmers and to encourage the establishment of input
distribution outlets, especially in the vicinity of the irrigated schemes, where demand for new
technology should develop rapidly.
4.14   Directorate for Programming and Finances/Methods and Processing Service (SMTIS).
For project monitoring and evaluation activities, the staff of the Programming and Finance's
Directorate SMTIS would collaborate with the project coordinators at the local level and staff of
the Directorates of Rural Works and of Agriculture in providing the enumerators to carry out
surveys on project performance. Collection of data at the field level would be undertaken by staff
specifically engaged for the purpose (as opposed to extension staff under the first project). Data
would be processed on microcomputers to be supplied to each of the zones and technical support
for this exercise would be provided by short term consultants during the first three years of the
project. Consolidation of the data from the monitoring and evaluation service would be the
responsibility of the national coordination unit of the project.
4.15   Project Coordination. Central coordination of overall project activities will be ensured
by a streamlined coordination unit, located in the Ministry of Agriculture. The coordinator will
fill the following functions: (a) secretariat to the project Coordinating Committee, set up under
the first project. Agreement to the maintenance of an irrigation sector coordinating committee
and the appointment of a coordinator was obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture during
negotiations (para 8.2 - vi). The Coordination Committee should meet no less than twice a year
and would invite representatives of external donors to attend key work programming and budget
sessions; (b) facilitator of exchanges between the different Directorates responsible for project
implementation; (c) responsible for the coordination of the preparation of annual budgets by each
of the directorates participating in the project and organizing review and agreement by
cofinanciers; (d) local supervisor of the project on behalf of the Secretary General of the MEADR
to ensure that the project resources managed by the technical Directorates are used for the
purposes for which they were agreed. In this role, the coordinator will ensure the preparation
of annual work plans and their submission to the project Coordinating Committee, as well as half
yearly progress reports on project implementation; (e) responsible for the consolidation of project
accounts and the submission of disbursement requests to IDA and other cofinanciers; (f)
responsible for centralization of monitoring and evaluation of project activities; (g) contact with



29
the external donors to ensure compliance with terms and conditions of agreements in support of
the project; (h) responsible for the preparation of the subsequent phases of the project, work on
which could begin as early as the mid-term review of the project at the end of 1996 (see para.
4.22), if the project is making positive progress. During the first year of the project, the
coordination unit will ensure the smooth transfer of the following functions: (i) responsibility for
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation to units established for this purpose within
the Directorates for Rural Works and Agriculture, supported by enumerators from the
Programming and Finance's Directorate SMTIS (para 4.14); (ii) tendering and the selection of
consulting engineers and supervisory services to the Directorate for Rural Works; (iii)
reintegration of rural institutions support services (AIR) to the Directorate for Rural Works.
During and after this transfer, the coordination unit will provide advisory services to the
implementation Directorates for the tasks which the latter will henceforth assume.
4.16   At the decentralized level, coordination of project activities will be ensured by local
project coordinators, specifically nominated to fill similar supportive functions to those of the
national coordinator and the central Directorates. To the extent possible, these coordinators
would be selected from available local staff within the region or otherwise reassigned from
services elsewhere. A local Coordination Committee bringing together representatives of the
Directorates of the MEADR responsible for project implementation, the Directorate for Water
and Forests (responsible for environmental protection, local ONGs associated with the project or
with environmental protection and the local representative of the Ministry of Public Works to
ensure that the latter is associated given its responsibility for rural road maintenance, will meet
regularly.
4.17   At the local level, a local coordination committee will bring together the representatives
of the WUAs benefitting or to benefit from the project and the local field team, comprising the
agricultural extension officer, the local DGR representative (Conseiller Hydraulique) and the
Conseiller Animateur.
4.18   The coordination of the preparation of training programs for project personnel at central,
regional and field levels will be ensured by the national coordination unit in close collaboration
with the Directorate responsible for human resource management (DGRH). The training program
would be presented each year together with the annual work program and should reflect training
priorities as expressed by each of the units responsible for project implementation, including the
DGRH.
4.19   Financial and Administrative Service (SAF). A service responsible for administration
and finances would be created at the national and decentralized levels. It will be responsible
initially for financial management of the project resources, notably in the establishment and
internal auditing of accounts. This service would ensure the computerization of accounts for the
project and in due course for the Ministry's regional operations. At the local level, the SAF
would provide support and training to WUAs in the setting up of appropriate financial
management and accounting systems. It would also work in conjunction with DGR personnel to
calculate operating costs of the rehabilitated schemes and the estimated contributions by water
users to ensure sustained O&M. Short term technical assistance to the SAF would be funded by
the project to support these functions.
4.20   Beneficiaries. Since the success of the project depends to such an extent upon the willing
participation of the farmers and water users in taking over O&M responsibility, the role of the
field teams (ET) assigned to each irrigation scheme and who are in regular touch with the



30
beneficiaries is critical. A clear mechanism, such as a regular meeting between field teams,
representatives of WUAs and local coordinators, should be established to permit feed-back from
the project beneficiaries to those responsible for project implementation. Such modifications as
might be required in project design and implementation should be reviewed and adopted in
consultation with the central coordination unit and donors as the project proceeds, maintaining
the principle of flexibility adopted under the first project.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21   Project monitoring and evaluation would be centralized by the national project
coordination office. The monitoring and evaluation services of the Directorates of Rural Works
and of Agriculture will undertake monitoring of the activities of their respective directorates. The
local staff of the Directorate of Programming and Finance's Methods and Processing Service
(SMTIS) would provide enumerators for local surveys in the project area to monitor progress
project implementation progress, including (a) the growth in number and membership of WUAs;
(b) progress on the collection of membership dues and contributions from members to O&M
charges; (c) rate of adoption of agricultural extension messages; (d) increases in agricultural
production, cropping intensity and yields; (e) incremental household income; and (f) evaluation
of the impact of training and workshops. Local monitoring and evaluation should be carried out
in close collaboration with the three members of the field teams and in association with members
of the Water Users' Associations, to encourage the adoption of improvements in project
implementation as identified by beneficiaries. The project monitoring and evaluation service will
develop indicators by which the impact of the project on (i) food security; (ii) poverty alleviation;
and (iii) capacity building can be measured. Progress on such monitoring will be reviewed as
part of the annual work program review. Reports including the results of these surveys would
be incorporated in the annual report prepared by the project Coordinator for the project
Coordinating Committee and for distribution to donors.
4.22   Thirty months after project effectiveness, a mid-term review of the project would be
carried out to evaluate progress and make recommendations for project orientation and activities
for the second half of the project period. During the mid-term review, a special effort will be
made to associate project beneficiaries, particularly members of the WUAs to draw on their
experience and contribution to defining the direction which the second half of the project should
follow. Agreement to scheduling the mid-term review not later than October 31, 1996 was
reached at negotiations (para 8.2 - vii). At project completion, the project coordination unit
would (i) prepare a completion report, which would present an analysis of project implementation
experience and (ii) make proposals for a new cycle of investments in irrigation rehabilitation.
D. Procurement and Disbursements
4.23   All goods and services funded by the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Bank Standard Bidding and Contract documents will be used for all ICB and
consultant contracts.  For fixed price contracts, any extension of bid validity would be
accompanied by an automatic adjustment of price. Domestic civil works contractors would be
allowed a preferential margin of 7.5 percent over the lowest evaluated bid, to encourage the
participation of local contractors. Under ICB procurement of goods, local manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower.



31
4.24   Civil Works. Contracts for rehabilitation of additional schemes and environmental
protection works would be grouped to the extent feasible and would be subject to international
competitive bidding. Civil works, such as the rehabilitation of local buildings and offices,
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
4.25   Local competitive bidding for civil works and for the recruitment of local consultants for
the control and surveillance of civil works would be limited to a list of qualified companies,
which have already demonstrated satisfactory experience for such work preferably in Madagascar.
The process would be open to all firms, local or foreign, and inclusion of firms in the list of
approved firms, based on the required standards of qualification would be on a continuous basis.
Thus the list of qualified firms who would be invited to bid shall be continuously updated (on a
semi-annual basis) to generate adequate competition. Updating of the list would be subject to
agreement of IDA, during the course of project supervision. Experience with contract
implementation has already provided the National Coordination Unit with a list of approximately
six local companies, which are considered reliable.
4.26   Contracts for civil works for the urgent repair of cyclone damage, which will commence
with funding under the project preparation facility, are not expected to exceed US$75,000 per
scheme. Contracts for such works, for a total not exceeding US$750,000 will be awarded either
on the basis of comparative bids from three contractors or on the basis of sole source contracts.
These sole source contracts would be limited to those cases where contractors have already been
selected on the basis of competitive bidding under the first project and are either still completing
works on the schemes or are bound by the maintenance guarantee of the contracts. Such sole
source contracts would retain the same price and contract conditions.
4.27   Goods. Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, motor bicycles and bicycles would be
subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) and would be grouped so as to obtain maximum
economies of scale. Furniture, equipment and supplies (US$0.46 million) would be purchased
using local competitive bidding procedures for contracts of less than US$100,000. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 may be procured using local or international shopping up
to an aggregate of US$200,000. To ensure that the project obtains competitive prices for
procurement of these and other goods, the project coordination unit is encouraged to use, for
purposes of comparison, the price lists provided by the UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement
Service Office (IAPSO).
4.28   Consulting Services. Contracts for the recruitment of consultants for detailed design of
rehabilitation works and surveillance of works expected to exceed US$100,000 would be subject
to international recruitment through a short list of firms following Bank guidelines. Contracts
for the control and surveillance of these works would be undertaken by the same consultants who
will have prepared the detailed studies for the rehabilitation works (APD). The terms and
conditions for the contracts for such surveillance would be submitted by the consultants with their
original offer of services and would figure among the criteria for selecting the company for the
detailed design work and studies (APD). All other short term technical assistance, both local and
external, would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the selection of
consultants.
4.29   Prior Review Procedures and Reporting. Each year, the Annual Work program will
include details of the procurement procedures to be adopted during the year in question and to



32
be agreed by IDA. Requirements for IDA prior review of procurement operations would be as
follows:
(i) Procurement of goods and construction contracts: proposals for advertising, draft
tender documents, bid evaluation and award proposals for all contracts exceeding
US$100,000 would be subject to review by IDA prior to their execution.
(ii) Contracts with consulting firms and consultants: prior review and approval of terms
of reference, budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts would be required for contracts for the employment of
consulting firms exceeding US$100,000 each and for all contracts for the employment
of individuals exceeding US$50,000 each, as well as all sole source contracts.
(iii) Contracts below the prior review thresholds under (i) and (ii) above would be subject
to an ex-post review by IDA on a selected basis.
4.30   In the light of its experience under the first project, the project coordination unit will
provide support to the technical services for the preparation of bidding documents and the
launching of tenders. The longer term objective of the project should be to devolve procurement
responsibility to the technical directorates, which will be the main beneficiaries of procurement
orders. To the extent feasible these directorates (and eventually representatives of the directorates
at the local level) will be responsible for preparing detailed technical specifications and for
launching tenders for these goods and services. Recruitment of consulting services will be
coordinated by the national coordinator's office. All committees established for the purpose of
bid evaluation should regroup representatives of the Directorates participating in the project,
including the project coordination unit and such representatives of the administration as required
by national legislation.
4.31   A summary of procedures to be followed for procurement under the project is included
in Table 4.1 below. A schedule of the procurement of goods, works and consulting services will
be included in the annual work program agreed with project cofinanciers (para 8.2 (i)).



33
Table 4.1: Procurement
Procurement Method
Intenational    Local
(USS O00)                                    CompeUtive   Compettive               Consulting
Bidding      Bidding      Other    Services    N.B.F.      Total
A Works                                            13,193        1,202          -                     -      14,395
(11,737)     (1,060)                                     (12,797)
B. Goods                                              976          459       293            -         -       1,727
(662)       (333)      (205)                           (1.200)
C. Consultant
Capacity building /a                                  -            -          -       1,028         -       1,028
(1,000)              (1000)
Implementation support & supervision /a               -                       -       1.466         -       1.466
(1,363)              (1.363)
Studies/a                                             -                      11       883          -        894
(11)      (824)                 (835)
D. TrairIng and Workshops                               -            -      1,007         38          -       1,045
(1,007)       (38)               (1,045)
E. Allowances and recurrent costs
Incremental recurrent costs                           -          155      1,434           -         -       1,588
(131)    (1,120)                           (1,251)
Incremental allowances                                -            -       998            -         -        998
(998)                            (998)
F. Other /b                                             -                                   -    1,712        1,712
G. PPF                                                  -            -       839            -         -        839
(739_                            (739)
Total                                               14,169        1,816     4,582       3,415     1,712      25,693
(12,399)     (1,524)    (4,079)     (3,224)        -    (21,227)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ore the respective amounts financed by Internatonal Development Association
\a Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank 'Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Washington DC A
\b Conrilbutions from WUAs towards O&M - Not Bank-financed
E. Accounting, Auditing, Budgeting, Disbursement and Reporting Procedures
4.32    Accounts and Audits. Separate accounts for project expenditures will be maintained,
as under the first project by the national coordinator's office, which will be required to adopt an
accounting system in line with the new directives to be issued shortly by IDA. The directives
imply the introduction of a double-entry accounting system and the preparation of annual accounts
covering the full activities of the project. However, given the objectives of decentralization of
financial budgeting, management and accounting of the MEADR's activities and of the transfer
of irrigation scheme management to WUAs, a simple system of decentralized double-entry
accounting will be introduced at the level of the local coordinators and for each irrigation scheme.
There is also a need for a more simplified system of document filing than existed under the first
project. For both these needs, the project would fund training and short term technical
assistance. Approximately 12 agents would receive training, three from the national coordinator's
office and nine accountants from the local offices. Details of the training and terms of reference



34
for the consultants to carry out such training are included in the Implementation Volume which
accompanies this report. Project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, in conformity with the norms of International Standards on Auditing. Audits
of financial accounts will be submitted to IDA not more than six months after the close of the
financial year to which they refer. Agreement on the above was obtained during negotiations
(para 8.2 - ii).
4.33   Budgets. Special emphasis will be placed on the preparation of annual budgets and their
respect during the course of implementation. The National Coordinator will play a major role
in ensuring the timely preparation of anmual budgets by all levels of the institutions benefitting
from the project. Assurances were received during project negotiations that a project
execution program, budget and financial plan will be submitted annually before October 31,
1994, for the following year's activities, to be reviewed and approved by IDA and the other
cofinanciers (para 8.2 - i). Semi-annual reports of project implementation progress would
be submitted to IDA and other cofinanciers before March 31, and September 30 each year.
(para 8.2 - iv)
4.34   Disbursement Procedures.  Once agreement has been reached on the annual work
program and budgets, withdrawals from the Credit will be claimed using the standard procedures,
including reimbursement of expenses prefinanced by the Ministry of Agriculture against
presentation of a withdrawal request, direct payment to suppliers or replenishment of the special
account.
4.35   To facilitate disbursement locally, IDA will advance the sum of US$300,000 into a
special account in convertible currency to be opened with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
Upon effectiveness 50 percent of the initial deposit amounting to US$150,000 will be deposited
to the special account. The remaining balance will be paid as needed. Reimbursements should
be grouped for replenishment of this special account and submitted for reimbursement every
month or whenever the special account balance is reduced to one third of the original amount,
whichever comes first, through the standard channel of the Ministry of Finance. The account
may be used to pay for expenditures in either local currency or foreign exchange through the
commercial banking system, against any category of expenditure. All replenishments should be
fully documented except in the case where statements of expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
4.36   A project advance account in local currency, operated by the office of the project
coordinator, would be established in a commercial bank, with an initial deposit of the equivalent
of US$100,000 to cover Government's contribution to project expenditures. This advance
account would be replenished from a deposit account opened either at the Treasury or at the
Central Bank, which would be created to receive the totality of the Government's counterpart
contribution each year. The advance account would be replenished by the government, against
presentation of supporting documentation, every two months or when the balance falls to one
third of the original amount, whichever comes first. Agreement on these procedures was
reached during negotiations. The deposit of an initial amount equivalent to US$100,000 shall
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit (para 8.4).



35
4.37   Disbursement by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).  The project
coordination unit would claim reimbursement on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs)
for:
(i)    civil works costing less than US$50,000 equivalent (Disbursement Category I);
(ii)   goods, training, consultants contracts, studies and operating costs for single items
costing less than US$20,000 equivalent (Disbursement Categories II, III, IV, V
and VI).
4.38   The Coordinator's office will retain all the relevant supporting documentation for
reimbursement claims under SOEs for inspection by supervision missions. During the course of
the annual audit of the project's accounts, the auditor will certify that all expenditures claimed
under SOEs during the year have been properly incurred for the project.
4.39   Credit Disbursement. The disbursement categories for the IDA credit are presented in
Table 4.2 below. IDA will finance 100 percent of all categories of expenditures, excluding
identifiable taxes and duties, up to the amount agreed in the annual work program. The
proportion of the annual work program to be financed by IDA will be decided each year after
review and discussion of the proposed budget by the national Coordinating Committee (para.
4.15). Agreed levels of funding will be closely linked to the commitment of the government and
of other donors to meet their share of project costs, as identified in Table 3.2. The credit closing
date is scheduled for June 30, 2000.
Table 4.2: Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount        Percentage
Category                                 (US$ '000)      Financed by IDA
1.   Civil Works                        11,905        100
2.   Consultants' Services        2,183                100
3.   Vehicles and Equipment              1,064         100 of foreign and
85 of local costs
4.   Studies                       400                 100
5.   Travel Costs and Training            907                 100
6.   Operating Costs                     2,088         100
7.   PPF advance                           750                100
8.   Unallocated                         1,930
Total                                    21,227
4.40   Based on the standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Madagascar, the
IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of six years. The expected disbursement profile is
given in the table below. During the early years of the project the disbursement rate is expected
to follow the standard disbursement schedule. Towards the later years of the project, assuming
successful implementation, disbursements are expected to accelerate as new rehabilitation work
is started. If successful, the project is expected to lead to a third phase covering further irrigated
schemes.



36
Table 4.3: Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ miillions)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01
6 ms                                            6 ms
Annual                    0.5    1.5      2.5     4.0     4.8      5.2     2.6
Cumulative                0.5    2.0      4.5     8.5    13.3    18.5    20.1
Percentage (%)            2.0    9.0    21.0    42.0    66.0    92.0   100.0
Agriculture Sector
Disbursement Profile (%)    0.0   10.0    22.0    38.0    58.0    82.0    94.0
4.41   Reports on project implementation progress would be submitted to IDA and other
cofinanciers semi-annually at the end of March and at the end of September each year. The
September report would be submitted so as to coincide with the meeting of the Coordinating
Committee called to discuss the following year's budget (para 4.15). Agreement on this would
be reached at negotiations.
F. Project Impact on Government Budget
4.42   During Project Implementation. The proposed contribution from Government to the
project represents approximately the equivalent of US$ 550,000 per annum or 9 percent of the
government's contribution to the 1993 agricultural public investment program. The proposed
level of contribution from the Government takes account of the chronic shortage of local
resources to meet counterpart contributions during the past years. During the annual budget
approval process, the proportion of funding from local sources will increase, in line with realistic
projections on the availability of local funds, based on experience with the preceding budgetary
exercise. At the end of the project period, Government will assume the recurrent costs of the
extension services and the services provided by the Rural Works Directorate, strengthened under
the project, which represent approximately US$800,000 equivalent per annum. Of this amount
about two thirds would be taken up by the National Agricultural Extension program, currently
being funded on a pilot basis, but due to attract further funding as a national program by 1996.
There would be savings to the Government budget of approximately US$500,000 equivalent per
annum due to the assumption by water users of operation and maintenance charges currently the
Government responsibility.
4.43   The close dialogue which the Bank will maintain with the Ministry of Agriculture on the
public expenditure program will help to ensure that sufficient local funding is available to meet
the Government's contribution.
G. Legal and Regulatory Framework
4.44   Land Tenure. Most land is cultivated by the defacto owner/occupant on the majority
of the schemes to be rehabilitated under the project. These ownership rights have evolved
according to Madagascar's traditional land tenure rights. In some cases, land tenure contracts
between the Government and the users were established at the time an irrigation scheme was



37
established but have since become outdated. Some owners have title deeds dating back to a land
registry established prior to independence. According to a specific study undertaken on the
subject in 1991 4/, and in spite of the different land tenure situations, there is little evidence of
insecurity of tenure among occupants of irrigation holdings. The law does not provide for share-
cropping or tenancy, although these are common practices in Madagascar. In spite of this lack
of legislation, there does not appear to exist any major reluctance on the part of tenants or share-
croppers to undertake modest investments on their holdings or any other specific constraints
posed by prevailing land tenure which are likely to affect project implementation.
4.45   As under the first project, in selecting schemes for rehabilitation, land tenure
arrangements will be reviewed and land tenure issues specific to the scheme will be assessed to
determine whether or not they are likely to inhibit successful transfer of responsibility for
operations and maintenance to users. In addition, the Directorate for Lands (Direction des
Domaines) will continue to collaborate with the local coordination units to survey individual plots
on irrigation schemes which have been rehabilitated. Once these surveys have been undertaken,
individual farmers can obtain full title deeds through the local land registries. To the extent that
the national environment program (Cr. 2125-MAG) is providing a major support to the land
registry services, the two projects should coordinate their activities closely.
4.46   Water Users' Associations. The methods of association and limits of responsibility were
defined for WUAs in legislation promulgated in 1985 and modified in 1990. The detailed
regulations providing clarification on the role and responsibilities of the state and of the Water
Users' Association, concerning in particular investment and maintenance charges, the level of
financial autonomy of the associations, the role of local collectors, and the degree of autonomy
of the WUAs, have been prepared and discussed during a special national seminar with the
Presidents of existing WUAs. The signature of the Ministerial decree, incorporating these
regulations together with the special conditions of the contracts to be signed between Government
and the WUAs, in terms which are satisfactory to IDA, was a condition of Board presentation
As a further condition, the Ministry of Agriculture has issued a specific decree providing formal
recognition of the Water Users' Associations as separate legal entities.
4/ P-C. Bloch and C-W. Dickermann "Le regime foncier du secteur imgue a Madagascar", Final report, November 1991



38
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION IMPACT
5.1    Technological Production Improvements. Several technological packages are currently
available for dissemination by the agricultural extension staff.  For rice production, which
constitutes the main crop on the irrigated schemes, the basic recommended technology (FN1 -
use of organic and chemical fertilizers in the nursery, replanting in lines with application of an
insecticide application and sufficient irrigation water) can be diffused by extension staff to the
majority of farmers on the rehabilitated schemes without major risks. The more advanced rice
production recommendations (FN2) represent a higher risk and should probably be limited to
larger growers only. (FN2 involves selected and improved seeds and the use of chemical
fertilizers after replanting).  For crop intensification in the schemes, several technological
recommendations exist to permit a double cropping of rice or other crops adapted to irrigated
conditions in the off-season. The use of organic manure on the rice seedbeds and paddy fields
is a technique which is relatively widely used on the central plateau, by those who have access
to manure and which could usefully be propagated elsewhere. Improved varieties (such as 2787
in the south) can provide appreciable increases in yield under less intensive conditions. Other
practices which have given positive results include protection against rice borer (pou du riz), clear
seeding in the nursery, sowing in line in the paddy fields and respect of planting dates and could
be encouraged by extension, taking account of local sociological context and existing agricultural
systems already in place. Intensification of fish farming in conjunction with rice production also
exists, which would increase farmer incomes and would encourage the adoption of more
ambitious production practices. Fish raising under irrigated conditions has the added advantage
of encouraging maintenance of the perimeters, to avoid escape of the young fish stock.
5.2    Table 5. 1 presents a summary of potential technical themes which could provide the basis
for more extensive agricultural extension on and around the rehabilitated irrigation schemes:
Table 5.1: Potential Technical Improvements in
Agricultural Production
Practice\Area    High Plateaux     North and West        South             East Coast
Rice production    Organic manure,    Treatment against  Improved          Improved
azolla, chemical    rice borer,        varieties, azolla,    varieties,
fertilizers 5/    agricultural         improved           improved seedbed,
implements, azolla,    seedbeds,       azolla, chemical
improved seedbeds,   chemical          fertilizers 5/
chemical fertilizers 5/  fertilizers 5/
Off-season crops  Wheat, potatoes,    Vegetables, fish   Vegetables, fish  Vegetables, fish
(other than rice)   beans, pasture,
vegetables, fish
5.3    To simulate the expected agricultural production increases in the project area, crop
models for paddy, potatoes, triticale (wheat equivalent) and fish raising have been prepared for
the different project areas. For paddy, without project yields have been assumed to be relatively
low, under rainfed or poorly irrigated conditions. Fifty to sixty percent increase in yields of
paddy are feasible given current levels of production on many schemes which are limited by the
lack of water during the off season. For production models for potatoes and triticale,
5/Only for larger rice producers



39
recommendations adopted by FIFAMANOR and KOBAMA projects have been adopted, which
can provide yields of 16 tons/ha and 2.5 tons/ha respectively. Fish farmers can expect yields of
300 kg/ha according to techniques recommended by a UNDP/FAO project in Madagascar.
5.4     The increased yields and production resulting from  adoption of improved techniques
under the project are included in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: Increases in Production and Yields with and without Project
Project Area/Crops                             Yield t/ha               Cropping intensity %
Without     With       Increase %     Without     With
Project   Project!'                   Project    Project!'
Antananarivo                                                              95.0      140.0
. Rice (paddy-Vakianb)               1.6        2.6             63.0       -          -
Triticale (off season)             0.0         2.5              -         -          -
. Potatoes (off season)             0.0        16.0              -         -          -
Fianarantsoa                                                              91.0      140.0
. Rice (paddy-Vakiamb)               1.6        2.6             63.0       -          -
. Rice/fish farming = Paddy          1.6        2.6             63.0
Fish                  0.04        0.3           525.0
Triticale                          2.5         2.5              -
. Potatoes                          16.0       16.0              -         -          -
Mahajanga                                                                 85.0      130.0
Rice (Paddy Jeby)                   1.4        2.2            57.0        -          -
Rice (Paddy double cropping)        1.4        2.2            57.0        -
Toamasina                                                                 83.0      125.0
Rice (Paddy main season)            1.5        2.3             53.0       -          -
Rice (Paddy double cropping)        1.5        2.3            63.0        -          -
Toliara                                                                   90.0      125.0
Rice (Paddy main season)            1.6        2.4            50.0        -          -
Rice (Paddy double cropping)        1.6        2.4            50.0
! by Year 5 of the project
5.5     Financial Impact of the Adoption of New  Techniques.  To estimate the financial
viability of the agricultural development proposals recommended for adoption on the rehabilitated
irrigation schemes, five farm models have been developed which are representative of the five
Faritany, where the project will intervene. These models illustrate, as Table 5.3 shows, how the
irrigated paddy fields are used in the different provinces. Since the project is not expected to
have a major direct impact upon rainfed agriculture or on livestock, these activities have not been
taken into account in the presentation of the improvements to be introduced through the project.
Each model shows the evolution of the type of use of a hectare of irrigated land before and after
the rehabilitation works. Thanks to better water management and control, the rice fields can be
used fully during the rainy season and off-season cropping could occupy between 125-140 percent



40
of the total available area, compared with actual cultural practices which only use 83-96 percent
of the area available.
5.6    The significant increase in the levels of production can be attributed to a significant
increase in the crops produced during the rainy season and during the off-season and from an
increase in yields. Once an improvement in water management is achieved by rehabilitation,
important increase in production can be expected from double-cropping both rice and off-season
crops. The above table shows the clear financial advantage of adopting the recommendations to
be generalized under the project. The increases vary between the US$195 and US$420 per
hectare according to the above models. The farm models demonstrate also that increases in farm
revenues will require a considerable increase in the farmer's labor requirements. However, the
small size of individual holdings and the lack of alternative sources of remunerated work suggest
this should not represent a constraint, given that improved farm production is the only way in
which farmers can improve their living conditions. This conclusion is confirmed by the increases
in crop intensity that has been observed on certain schemes, once the rehabilitation work has been
finished.
Table 5.3: Cropping Intensity and Net Revenue Per Model Farm (ha)
Antananarivo    Fianarantsoa        Mahajanga         Toamasina           Toliara
Without  With    Without  With    Without  With    Without  With    Without  With
Project   Project  Project   Project  Project   Project  Project   Project  Project   Project
Fallow    0.10     0       0.10      0       0.15     0        0.2      0        0.1      0
Cropping
intensity/
ha
Rice      0.85     0.85    0.8       0.8     0.85      1.0     0.8      1.0      0.9       1.0
(main
season)
Rice (off-  0      0       0         0       0        0.3      0.03     0.25    0         0.25
season)
Potatoes  0.03     0.2     0.05      0.2     0        0        0        0        0        0
Triticale   0.03   0.2     0.05      0.2     0        0        0        0        0         0
Fish      0.05     0.15    0.01      0.2     0        0        0        0        0        0
breeding
Cropping  0.96     1.40    0.91      1.4     0.85      1.30    0.83     1.25    0.9        1.25
Intensity
Net       0.469    1.211   0.482    1.238   0.332    0.709   0.349    0.719   0.404    0.756
revenue/
ha FMG
millions



41
5.7    Aggregation of the production on approximately 20,000 ha, which will benefit from more
intensive agricultural extension and improved water management shows a total increase in output
of agricultural production as follows:
Without Project   With Project   Increase
(tons)
Paddy              38,000           52,800     14,800
Potatoes             1,280           7,960      6,720
Triticale             225            1,240      1,025
Fish                    4              120        116
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
6.1    The marginal increase in production generated by the project should have no difficulty
in finding a market. Madagascar depends to a large extent still on imports of rice, wheat and
triticale. Between 1985 and 1992, paddy production reached an average of 2.4 million tons,
which covered only 90 percent of domestic consumption. Increased rice production generated by
the project would enable Madagascar to reduce its imports of this crop by 10 percent. The
production of wheat, barley and triticale under the production would have only a nominal impact
of imports (less than 1 percent). The additional production of potatoes and fish would readily
find a local market in the areas of production.
6.2    Marketing of agricultural production is assured by private sector traders with the
exception of a number of specialized crops, such as wheat and cotton, which still remain in the
hands of state monopolies. Marketing does not normally pose a problem to the extent that an
irrigated scheme has relatively easy access to a road outlet. Since one of the criteria for the
selection of irrigation schemes for rehabilitation will continue to be the proximity of a local road
(para 3.18), it is not anticipated that the project should encounter major marketing problems.



42
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Financial and Economic Benefits
Institutional Development Benefits
7.1    The project will make a major contribution to the reinforcement of the technical services
of the Ministry of Agriculture, both at the central level and more especially at the provincial and
local level. The services of the Rural Infrastructure Directorate and the Directorate for
Agriculture are principal beneficiaries. This institutional strengthening will benefit agricultural
development in Madagascar in general and the irrigation sub-sector in particular.
Direct Quantifiable Benefits
7.2    Through the improvement of water management on existing irrigation schemes, the
project will have a direct impact on increasing the income of approximately 40,000 small scale
farm families, assuming an average holding of 0.5 ha per family. By introducing the possibility
of cropping during the off-season, the area cultivated may be increased by up to 50 percent. The
introduction of better organized agricultural extension services and the application of improved
techniques for rice and non-rice crops will lead to increased yields and hence output. An
estimated incremental annual production of 15,000 tons of paddy, 6,700 tons of potatoes, 1,000
tons of triticale and 116 tons of fish are expected to be achieved by the project within the next
five years.
Indirect Benefits
7.3    With the transfer of the responsibility for operations and maintenance of the medium-sized
irrigation schemes, the recurrent costs of maintenance of these schemes from public funding
sources will be reduced. Once rehabilitation has been completed and the schemes have been
taken over by the water users, it is estimated that there will be a saving of the equivalent of
US$500,000 per year to the public exchequer.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
7.4    The economic analysis of the project has taken into account the costs of complementary
work funded under the project directly related to the rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes,
started under the first project, as well as the costs of the new rehabilitation work, currently
limited to 4,000 ha. In addition, the costs of the environment component have been taken into
account. Only fifty percent of the costs of strengthening the local services of the Ministry of
Agriculture have been included in the calculation of the economic rate of return, given that the
benefits would not be limited to the irrigation sub-sector. Benefits are based upon the incremental
production of paddy, potatoes, triticale and fish, on the basis of the farm models for each of the
project areas, on the full 20,000 hectares which would benefit from rehabilitation investments on
4,000 ha included under the project and the improved provision of extension and other services
on the irrigated schemes rehabilitated under the present and on the earlier project.



43
7.5    The rate of return for the project calculated over 10 years is 27 percent. The net present
value of the cost and benefit streams applying a discount factor of 12 percent is US$3.3 million.
The switching value for the project benefit stream at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 per cent
is 19%. The sensitivity analysis of the project costs and benefits indicates that the break even
point (the point at which the ERR falls below 12 percent) is reached by a 23 percent increase in
costs or a 19 percent decrease in benefits or alternatively a combined 10 percent increase and
decrease in costs and benefits. The project is relatively more sensitive to a fall in the benefit
stream than to an increase in the cost stream as Table 7.1 demonstrates. Analysis of the
projections for increases in rice yields indicates that the project is relatively insensitive to
shortfalls in the achievement of increased rice production. A 10 percent shortfall in incremental
rice yields would bring the project ERR down to 22 percent. A 35 percent shortfall on projected
increased rice yields would be required to bring the ERR down to 12 percent, all other things
being equal. Sensitivity against slow achievement of project benefits indicates that a full year's
delay in achieving project benefits would be required to bring the ERR down to 13 percent.
Table 7.1: Sensitivity Analysis of the ERR to Changes in
Costs and Benefits
Increase in    Decrease     Increase in
Costs     in Benefits     Costs and
Decrease in
Benefits
10 percent        19% ERR      19% ERR        12% ERR
change
15 percent        16% ERR      15% ERR         7% ERR
change
23 percent        12% ERR       10% ERR
7.6    One of the main benefits from improved water management on the newly irrigated
schemes is the increased potential for production of non-traditional crops. The farm models
which have been prepared for the above analysis include only potatoes, triticale and fish farming
as diversification from traditional rice production. Approximately 20 percent of the project
benefits are attributed to production of such crops. The potential is however considerably greater
and should be the object of strengthened ties between the extension and research services as
project implementation advances.
B. Environmental Impact
7.7   Irrigation has a major positive impact in terms of increasing yields and increasing national
productivity and has the indirect benefits of improving local standards of living and local diets.
In Madagascar, irrigation also has a positive impact outside the irrigated schemes in that it
alleviates agricultural pressure on the marginal tanety (hillside) lands. For an irrigation scheme
to fully benefit from a rehabilitation program, it is important that rehabilitation is carried out in
a manner that is technically and environmentally sound. The direct environmental impacts of
rehabilitation include problems due to errors and omissions in technical designs and the damage



44
caused by construction during the actual physical rehabilitation. With proper supervision such
impacts can be reduced to negligible proportions. The direct impacts most often associated with
intensive irrigation such as soil degradation, surface water contamination by fertilizers and
pesticides and the increased risk of water borne diseases appear insignificant on the rehabilitated
irrigation schemes in Madagascar and should pose no major threat with sound farming and
maintenance practices.
7.8    External impacts of rehabilitation include the degradation of watersheds upstream of the
rehabilitated schemes, which has had a moderate to high adverse impact on certain schemes
during and after rehabilitation. Cyclones also have had on occasions a moderate to very high
impact on the environment, both during the rehabilitation phase and during actual perimeter
operations.
7.9    Soil Fertility. Rehabilitation which permits the possibility of two crops per annum might
be considered, if fertilizers are used, to pose a threat to the soil fertility, which could be
considered a directly negative environmental impact of the project. However, to date there is no
evidence to suggest that there is diminishing soil fertility on the rehabilitated schemes. On the
contrary, there have been observations suggesting that the introduction of crops during the off-
season with fertilizers brought a complementary benefit to rice production the following season.
7.10   Health Risks.  Increased activity in the rehabilitated schemes could contribute to
increasing the risks of contamination of diseases for which the vector requires an aquatic phase
such as malaria and bilharzia, two diseases endemic to Madagascar. However, the potential
impact of this risk is low given (i) the important proportion of lands already under irrigation and
(ii) the compensatory impact of improved drainage resulting from rehabilitation. However, it
would certainly be possible to reduce the impact of these diseases by introducing measures which
lead to greater availability of prophylactics, such as Nivaquine, in the project area.
7.11   Effects of Intensification of Agricultural Production. The effects of rehabilitation of
the irrigation schemes should contribute to improve farmer incomes on the schemes. This in turn
should have a marginal effect on reducing the impact of clearing land elsewhere for new
production, although the growing population pressure probably nullifies any such benefits.
Nonetheless, rehabilitation of irrigation schemes provides an opportunity to negotiate a contractual
arrangement for the use of other areas, such as catchment areas From this point of view, the
impact of the project can be considered to be beneficial.
7.12   Environmental Actions. By conducting an environmental analysis prior to any new
rehabilitation, the project will make a major effort to avoid adverse effects of rehabilitation
experienced to date. For the rehabilitated schemes under the first project, a scheme-specific
evaluation will be carried in one retrospective evaluation and limited environmental protection
works carried out subsequently. This evaluation will provide mitigation recommendations which
will serve as a reference in the development of future mitigation plans.
C. Risks
7.13   The success of the project depends, among other things, on the successful transfer of the
management and the maintenance of the rehabilitated schemes to local WUAs. The project has
incorporated the principle of progressive rehabilitation, with an assessment of physical and
monetary contributions at each stage of the rehabilitation. In addition, a more intensive process



45
of local feed-back and participation in project execution by beneficiaries will permit project staff
to assess the levels of local commitment of the WUAs at different stages. Given the progress
registered under the first project, there is a high probability that management and maintenance
responsibility will be successfully transferred.
7.14   The lack of intensified agricultural extension support provided by the Directorate for
Agriculture following rehabilitation was one reason for the only modest improvements in
agricultural productivity and production during the first project.  The risk of a lack of
collaboration by the Department of Agriculture is reduced in the light of the (a) the renewed
political commitment by the Ministry of Agriculture on improving the effectiveness and
professional quality of its national agricultural extension service; and (b) the resources which will
be mobilized specifically for the Department of Agriculture to improve the quality of extension
support on and around the rehabilitated schemes, unlike the previous project, when such
resources were not specifically identified.
7.15   In order to ensure longer term sustainability of the rehabilitation program, virtually no
recourse is anticipated to long term technical assistance. In its place, short term assignments by
consultants, both national and expatriate, are envisaged. There is a risk that this might result in
a higher incidence of technical errors in rehabilitation design.
7.16  Insufficient funding of the Government's contribution to the project could have a negative
impact on execution. However, the project budget approval and financing arrangements are such
as to minimize the impact of delinquency by any cofinancier. IDA funds will be made available
on a lender of last resort basis, and annual work programs and budgets will be designed
accordingly. An intensified dialogue between the Bank and the Government on macroeconomic
questions will focus attention on the public expenditure program, through which priority
counterpart funding obligations would be flagged. The risks of poor Government funding
performance seriously affecting successful project implementation are low.
7.17   The risk of environmental damage to water catchment areas feeding newly rehabilitated
schemes, as encountered under the first project, would be minimized by the environmental
assessments proposed in the selection of additional schemes for rehabilitation. On the basis of
historical evidence, there is nonetheless an five to ten percent possibility that rehabilitated
schemes will suffer from cyclone damage or other natural disaster within ten years of
rehabilitation.
7.18   On the basis of an analysis of the foregoing risks, there is a better than seventy percent
chance overall that the project will meet its development objectives.



46
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1    A draft "Irrigation Sector Policy Statement" has been prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture (see Annex 2) and was transmitted to the Bank officially with a letter from the
Minister for Agriculture dated ....  1994.
8.2    The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(i) A project execution program, budget and financial plan will be submitted annually
before October 31, 1994 for the following year's activities, including training proposals
and details of procurement procedures to be followed (para 3.35);
(ii) Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, in conformity with the norms of International Standards on Auditing (para 4.31);
(iii) Audits of financial accounts will be submitted to IDA not more than six months after
the close of the financial year to which they refer (para 4.31).
(iv) Reports on project implementation progress would be submitted to IDA and other
cofinanciers semi-annually at the end of March and at the end of September each year.
(para 4.32).
(v) The MEADR would fix a common policy on field allowances for all projects before
the end of 1994 (para 3.24).
(vi) The MEADR confirmed its agreement to the maintenance of an irrigation sector
coordinating committee and the appointment of a coordinator (para 4.15).
(vii) Government would carry out, in collaboration with donors, a mid-term evaluation
of the project not later than October 31, 1996 (para 4.22).
(viii) Government would carry out in consultation with all concerned donors, an annual
review of the Public Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector (para 3.35)
8.3    The following would be conditions for presentation of the credit to the Board:
(i) The signature of a ministerial decree providing recognition of the Water Users'
Associations as legal entities.
(ii) The adoption and the submission to the Bank of the final version of the agreed policy
statement.
8.4    The following would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit:
The deposit of an initial amount equivalent to US$100,000 to the project advance account
(para 4.35).
8.5    With the above assurances and conditions, the above project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR 15 million.



47
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 1
DETAILED COST TABLES
Table 1: Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(USS O0)                                                            Be  Cost
u94    S9M       3197    97/N        ISS    Total
A. Trneht dee piibnWe r6habilts aux AUE
Rwforcwnwtede natAlons Praannee                 744    2,189       60       61       61     3,094
TmvancConforbtif                                 620      413        -        -       -      1,033
Subtoal Trnxfet des pirbnm   r6habilit6s aux     1,364    2,582      60       61       61     4,128
B. ProtcdJon de rEnvlonrwit                       304       333     315      230      276      1,458
C. RMhabltondeedr nouv-& p6rm6tru                           104    2,158    4,004    1,950    8,215
0. Appul aum Seces du Mlngrg
Coordndhionce                                   410      141      108       91       40       791
Ronforcmert de Swvis  ReWoe                      98    1,101    1,322    1,221      694     4,438
Subotl App  aux Sovic  du Mlngri                  509    1,243    1,430    1,313      734     5,229
E. Fonnraon                                       247       122     121       96       79       666
F. SuM-Evidion a Audi                               53      39       28       28       17       165
G. Enbdnt doe P4rknW.s per kme AUE                 138     276      276      310      345  1,345
Total BASEULNE COSTS                              2,616    4,698    4,388    6,041    3,482    21,204
Physica ContIngences                            262      470      439      604      348     2,120
Pric Contingerncies
Inftion
Loca                                        127      443      673    1,103      944     3,290
Foreign                                      41      139      192      387      251     1,009
Subtotal Inflation                            168      582      865    1,489    1,195     4,299
Devaluaton                                     -32    -254    -490    -660    -493    -1,930
Subtota Pice Contkgencls                         136     328      374      829      701     2,369
Total PROJECT COSTS                               3,013    5,496    5,201    7,475    4,509    25,694
Tam                                              292      637     606      873      491     2,900
Foreign Exchang                                1,857    3,187    2,820    4,225    2,205    14,295



Table 2: Components Project Cost Summary
(FMG 100)                                        (US$ '000)
%     % Toal                                  %      % Tdal
Foreign   Base                                Foreign   Bas
Local       Foreign        Toadi    Exchange  Costs    Local   Foregn    Total  Exchange  Cods
A. Transf.t des p6rhu&s r6hablllt6s Aux A
Renforcmrw  des lns*Ailonr Paysanres       3,222,000    5,751.667     8,973,667       64      15    1,111      1,983    3,094        64      15
Travem Conha_f    951,750                                2,044,500    2,996,250       68       5       328      705      1,033       68       5
Subtotal Tranl des pdrknlt  rshabilltis      4,173,750    7,796,167    11,969,917       65      19      1,439    2,688     4,128       65      19
B. Protection derEfwlonneener                1,525,889    2,701,511     4,227,401       64       7       526      932      1,458       64       7
C. R6habdbtaon de nouveaux p6lm6tres         8,260,370    15,563,333    23,823,704      65      39     2,848     5,367     8,215       65      39
D. Appui aux Services du Minagri
Coordinaton centrale                        606,393      1,687,204    2,293,597       74       4       209      582       791        74       4
Renforcenwi de Servle Reglonaux            6,746,095    6,123,076    12,869,171       48      21     2,326     2,111    4,438        48      21
Subtotal Appul aux Services du Minagrl       7,352,488     7,810,280    15,162,768      52      25     2,535     2,693     5,229       52      25                   t
E. Forfation                                 1085,000       845,833     1,930,833       44       3       374      292       666        44       3
F. Suv-Evaluation at Audit                    168,925       308,367       477,292       65       1        58      106       165        65       1
G. Enrretlen des P6rlmntres par Ws AUE       3,900,000            -     3,900,000        -       6 _           1,1,345                  -       6
Total BASELINE COSTS                        26,466.423    35,025,491    61,491,914      57      100     9,126    12,078    21,204      57      100
Physical Contnancies                       2,646,642    3,502,549     6,149,191       57      10       913     1,208    2,120        57      10
Price CboCtien                            10,754,746    11,139,467    21,894,213      51      36     1,360     1,W9     2,369       43       11
Total PROJECT COSTS                         39.867,811    49,667,508    89,535,318      55      146    11.399    14,295    25,694      56      121
x



49
Annex 1
Table 3: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total                                %     % Totb
Forglni    a                                 Foeign   Base
Local       Forsign       Total    Exchange Cosb    LocaI   Foreign    Total  Exhnge Cost.
1. lnIm      Code
A. TrAvaux TwrTaln
Hydrauoeqe                            10.113,750    21,725,833    31,839.583     68      52    3,488    7,492   10,979         8s      52
Erwnnrt                                 952.000     2.088,000    3,040,000       69       5      328       720    1,048       69        5
Suavewsodr                               988,000    1,005,333     1,993,333      50       3      341       347      687        50       3
Sub'otal TauAx TwWln                    12,053,750    24,819,167    36,872,917     67             4,156    8,558 -    715       67       60
RelhabiIocn                             304,657       443,056      747,712       59       1      105       153      258        59       1
RWabltacn logerets                      443.137       64,444      1,087,582      59       2       153      222      375        59       2
Subtaw   umt                              747,794     1,087.500     1,835.294      59       3      258       375      833        59       3
C. VYhlcuke
ToGA taTnni                              880,952      805,558     1,686,508      48       3      304       278      582        48       3
Lgagr                                   352,381       322,222      674,603       48       1       122      111      233        48       1
mi,1uttes                               376,650       352,350      729,000       48       1      130       122      251        48       1
BJcycle                                  126,857      116,000      242,857       48       -       44        40       84        48
Subtotal Vebhul_                         1,738,_40    1.596,128    3,332,968       48      T       599       550    1,149        48       5
0. Equlpemt
MoblieratEqupmewt                       296,475       582,900      879,375       66       1       102      201      303        66       1
L Astlns TehAnIque
Court arme                                     *    3,608.889    3,608,889      100       6              1,244    1,244       100       6
Loca                                    752,000             -      752,000        -       1      259         -      259         -       1
Subttal A       e TchnIque                7 0W        3 889        4,360,889       83              259    1,244                  83       7
F.D Etulde
Bi3WU nTeQ                                     -      294.833      294,833      100       -                102      102       100
BureaIulocaux                           922,074       618,687     1,540,741      40       3      318       213      531        40       3
Frais dInrancede rET                      25,000                    25,000                 -       9         -        9
Subtotal iids                             947,074       913,500     1,860,574      49       3      32T       315      842       49        3
0. Formelon
Fo,mantn local.                        1,559,000                  1,559,000       -       3      538         -      538                 3
Formane a i reewu                             -       792,667      792.667      100       1         -      273      273       100       1
Fr. do sub_tioe                          108,000                   108,000                        37                 37         -
Subtotal FormaUoa                        1,667,000      792,667    2,Z9,66         3        4      5      7 3         848       32        4
H. Entrel 1p^r in AUE                    3,900,000                 3,900.000                6    1,345               1,345        -       6
Total InvestoteCosts                      22,100,934    33,400.750    55,501,684     60      90    7,621    11,518   19,139       60       90
II. Recurrnt Costa
A. Indwmnites
Ingerwer                                475,800                    475.800        -       1       164        -      164         *       1
Techtcn                                 324,000             -      324,000        -       1       112               112         -       1
V u4wast"                              1.440,000            -    1,440,000                2       497        -      497         -       2
Chauoa&i                                  33,000            .       33,000         -               11        .       1 t
Subtotal ndem ,nis                                                 2,272800         -       4       784        -                  *       4
S. Entralen dee Vehlculee
ToqA iterru                             755,630       590,730     1,346.380      44       2      261       204      464        44       2
LOge                                    270,486       211,458      481,944                1       93        73      166        44       1
M docyclA                               278,545       216,195      492,740       44       1       m5        75      170        44       1
Subto  Etva nddeV  hlVulee               1,302,681    1,018,383    2.321,044       44       4      49        351      80         44       4
C. Enbr  n baumnts
Burma                                   279,176       406.000      685,176       59       1        96      140      238        59       1
0. Foumlu. Buraux
Bureu DiUction                           180,416       70,760      251,176       28        -      62        24       87        28
Bureu TwrTAn                             279.498      109,620      389,118       28       1        96       38      134        28       1
Documetido                                50.937       19,978       70,915       28        -       18        7       24        28
Subtotal Foumlbam Eurseux                 510,851       200,358      711.209       28       1       176       69       45        28       1
Tota Rfecuuwt Code 4,365,489                             1,624,741     ,19900230     2      7       1,505-7  160 2,                         0
Total SASMJNE COSTS                       26,46e,423    3s5,025,41    61,491,914     57      1w       126   12,078   21,204                100
Physc"a Coatinc                          2.64.642    3,502,549     6,148,191      57      10      913    1.208    2.120         57      10
Prie Cao.elee                           10754746    11,139,467    21,894,213       51      38    1,30    1 009    230e           43     t1
Total PROJECT COSTS                      31a67!811   4G,W     5      80,53,31                      11,399 142                              121



50
Annex 1
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(US$ 00Wm                                                          eoa Cost                       Foreign Exchane
94q    956T      *4TT    17n        Mun9    Totul      %      Arnount
1.1nvnb      Crist cda
A. Traveux T naIn
Hydraullqu                                1.328    2.538    1,778    39586   1,778    10.979     68.2    7,492
Environnement                                44     306      262      218      218     1,048     68.7      720
SuveWconrbDle                                 -        -      172     344      172       687     50.4       347
Subtot-lTrvaaux Twrain                      1,372    2,844    2.212    4.118    2,168    12,715    67.3    8,558
L Batknb,s
Roheblllbtonbureax                            -       94       94      70                258     59.3       153
RaI.blbllon bgnwn"w                       _          141      141      94         -      375     59.3       222
Subtuote bbmugta                                 -     234      234      164        -      633     59.3       375
C. Vdkeul_e
TooA lwrain                                 116      140      140     140       47       582     47.8       278
Lagr                                         1I       70       70        -      12       233     47.8       111
moookuas                                      -       68       68       68      47       251     48.3       122
Bsico-                                                31       31      21                 84     47.8        40
SubtataVehicaui                               198      309      309     229      105     1,149     47.9       550
D. Equlpwenwt
Mkobwr et Equipeent                          43       98       98      64         -      303     66.3       201
E. Assistane Technique
Court atrne                                 467      289     228      178       83     1,244    100.0    1.244
Local                                        79       26       42      60       53       259        -         -
Subtoti Aasaldance Technique                  546      314      270     237      136     1,504     82.8    1,244
F. Etudes
Burmx dsars                                 102        -        -                 -      102    100.0       102
Buraauxkcas                                  15      119      264      119      15       531     40.2       213
Fra edwnr&noe derET                           2        2        2        2       2         9
Sujbtotal Ehjd                                118      120      266      120      17       642     49.1       315
0. FormatIon
Fo.ndcon locals b8                                   129      129     107       84       538
Formlon a rexterieu                           -       64      100      91       18       273    100.0       273
Frl sdesubsstance                             4        8        8        8       8        37        -
Subtota lonatlon                               92      201      238      207     110       848     32.2       273
H.Enbtr.tlnperlkmAUE                          138      276      276     310      345     1,345        -         -
Totalnvement Costs                           2,507    4,398    3,903    5,450    2,U81    19,139    60.2   11.518
11. Recurrent Coats
A. Indemnte
Ingwium                                      16       22       42      42       42       164
Techicien                                     9       19       28       28      28       112        -         -
Vulgasau                                     41       83      124      124     124       497        -         -
Chaufteur                                     1        2        3        3       3        11        -         -
Subtotal Indnt                                 68      125      197      197     197       784        -         -
B. Entretben de Vehiculs
TouA terin                                   24       57      110      139     124       464     43.9       204
Lager                                        16       29       40      44       38       166     43.9        73
Motocycletle                                  -       18       35      53       65       170     43.9        75
SubtotalEntretnd desvahkuls                    39      113      185      236     227       800     43.9       351
C. Entretben betwowts
Burwux                                                30       44      81       81       238     59.3       140
D. Foumltue Bureaux
SurfeuDbotlon                                 1       11       21      27       27        87     28.2        24
Bureu TTsn                                    -       17       32      42       42       134     28.2        38
DocumentatIon                                 1        3        6       8        7        24     28.2         7
SubttlP Foumntn Bureaux                         2       31       59       78      76       245     28.2        69
Total Recurenvt Costs                           109      300      485      591     581     2,066     27.1       560
Total BASELINE COSTS                           2,616    4,698    4,388    6.041    3,482    21,204    57.0   12.078
Physical C      aogencie                      262      470      439     6D4      346     2.120     57.0    1,208
Pric Co e_ngenda
tetaon
Local                                     127     443      673    1,103      944     3,290        -         -
Forign                                     41      139      192     387      251     1,009    100.0    1,009
Subtotal hion                               168      582      S6W   1,489    1.196     4,299     23.5    1,009
Devkuhotn                                   -32    -254    -490       460     -493    -1,930        -
Subktotl Price Contngeci                      138      328      374      829     701     2,369     42.6    1,009
Total PROJECT COSTS                            3,013    5,4986   5,201    7,475    4,509   25,694     56.6   14,296
Taxs                                          292      637     606       873     491     2,900
Foreign Exhnge                              1,857    3,187    2,820    4,25    2,20    14,295         -



Table 5: Strengthening Rural Institutions - Detailed Costs
(rnaM
Quu.6U..                                                     Urn~~~~~~"  00 Cad
UFA   wn                  mm             37 T76                          i.ew        CoWt  NM6   M    3Y7 83   NM    T.bl
I. hyo4g  cl
A. Abler de h.ala paiUc'w
AftrdAftm bwsloew                                                             24             32         64        es         go            31     0517        12      17       33       SI       51      113
FrFude wUtSIMSOm                                           .f.                24             46         48        48         46            216    o172        4         a       I        a        a       37
SCu_  Abis, de lun,s pulc*ipO.                                                                                                                                  17       25       41      56       56      201
B. Evboao s de kewus*m pwldpb l
AT dw                                                       h                   4             4          4          -          -            12    4167        17       17       IT        -               50
AT  hele                                                    Vh                  4             4          4          4          4            20    0.517        2        2        2       2        2       10
auhbbi EvlwoMu  do I fon,aIeu  pwticppv.                                                                                                                        19       19      19        2        2       60
C. T_mwarudo,W  uwr p6rO        abw                            he             3,000         2.00                      -          -         5,0o0    0207      620       413                 -        -    1.033
D. R4pwwAon d_ d %  e                                        bktA                                                                                              06O    2 s25                        2-       3
TMd                                                                                                                     i~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.364    2.562  60  61  SI    4.I28
Table 6: Protection of the Environment - Detailed Costs
aMeneb.                                                                   6.3  C."t
1in
IMnt   3413           ISI        3613        3736        36           Tobal     Unit Codt  94956   336        67   97136   __          Tobi
I. h
I. Andym lnv d. P  r4fhdMM
C uawt  NIMM                           s. . .                                        - 10                                                 o      4. 1 167   42         -                -               42
C4nautont  rnMls                                                            26            -          -           -           -           26      2069       56         *       *                 .      so
Seableb An*weu env doe MP rdha6UIl                                                                                                                           100         .                .10
B. Ebde elnpac       _soo                                                                                                                                                                                   OD -  60
C. Op 1do         _ Mg&" ddeu boenwd e   ete                                                                                                                    44       87       44            .          175
0. Op _m&mu env,onwi,n          maumm _                         fadS                                                                                                    216      216        .        -     431
E. Op&rmdnw   _rnmentem am nowU  pAles                          ba4                                                                                               -                -     218      218      437
F. Etude d tespombl  do d69Ob cd clu qtebeit                                                                                                                    26         -       .        .               26
0. Ablwer  _w-memeo pour b. BE                                   WlON                                                                                            16      16        .        *               31
H Evea',on do                                                   hd -dqo&K  -S                                                                                                     42                        42
I. Appul a b colds eewtrO0Ooit
Vehk      kbd aa                                                ob              2           -          .           .          2             4     23 262      47         -       .       .       47       93
Totl baveei C-oet                                                                                                                                                293      321      304     218      265    1,401
L ROCUMM Cods
A. F.e,c4eemosed Covlb ENVOG
kwhrA-                                                         hI5C 200                  200         200                    200          10,C0     0 000       2        2        2       2        2        9
E          _,*i II                                             nb               2          2           2           2          2            10      41M6       10       10       10      10       10       46
TO"i Bameraset Codst                                                                                                                                               1        I   I11          1       11i      5
304      333     315      230     276    1.456   't
x



Table 7: Rehabilitation of Additional schnems - Detailed Costs
Q~~m~dss                         .uss 
Usin     mm3         053             697    *       7/            360             Total Ce ost    041            01       96197      736   -MM         Tdd
1. InvssbinW  Cost
A Nouvoux Truvoux do Pthabfltklon
Etudedrw bton AppraUnde(8E)                        ha                       1.000          2,000          1,000                         4.000    0.104                104       206       104         -      415
TnP.Sum                                            ha                           -          1.000          2.000          1,000          4.000    1 778                   -    1,77S    3,556    1.778    7,113
SPAA do Trw.m                                      ha                                      1.000          2.000          1,000          4.000    0172           -        -      172      344       172       667
Total                                                                                                                                                                -     104    2.158    4,004 11I.0    8,215
Table 8: Institutional Strengthening - Central Level
Detailed  Costs                                                                                                        (US$ VW)
Qumaliks                                                                         Be" cost
UaII        MM             963            07           973            96H           Total      U.l cost   mm136    WIN    406?    e1lm    _IH            TOW
L. lvs"rbums  Cast
A. V&leu.k
TodAh bi-Cowdorofln                               nb                 3                                                                        3     73262        70                           -        -       70
VUtcw solsgsu                                     nb                  3                                                                       3      11631       3          -            -        -            35
V        de _sm  - DfCE 'Is                       nb                  I              -             -             -              1             2      11.631      12             -             -       12      23
de baroeu                                lodfa                                                                                                            10        -   -         -            - 
AT -                                              h.,,_wh hlm                                      I 1  1        1              -             4      66s7         7        7        7        7         -      2
Sh t.W  V*eCsks                                                                                                                                                   133        7        7        7       12      1W
B Equlp o                                          bkiw                                                                                                             S        ,a       -         -                S
C. Aasl_t  Tochaqu
AppW _aladowArals  ham                                               3              3             2              2              -            10     18 667       50       50       33       33         -      l67
Rswdowsmu4aselo b miers                        hnfo               10.5             3             2              1             1           175      16.667      175       50       33         7      17      2 2
Smb4o_ Assa_tum  Tiochq                                                                                                                                           225      100       67       50       17      45
Tetl lnvsl@ ss_  Cask                                                                                                                                               376      107       74       57       26      642
lt. Rocwuat Coot
A. l.dem..bs
h                                                 UwrSi           1.000          1,000         1,000         1,000          1.00o         5,000      0.009        9        9        9        9        *       43
Fo_uaws- DCFE                                     h4r               60            120            120           120           120           540      o0o7          0        1        1        1        I        4
subbti Iodu.as                                                                             9                                                                                 9        0        0        0       47
S. EntottiS  V.&kcul>
TOul .b                                           nb                 3              3             3             3                            12      4.786       14       14       14       14        .       67        3
Lsgw- MARO                                        Sb                 3              3             3             3                            12      2216         7        7        7        7        -       27
L.gsr-OCFE                                        nb                 1              I             I              I             1              5      2.216        2        2        2        2        2       11
SubtoW Eabss Vohlkuk                                                                                                                                               23       23       23       23        2       e5
C. ftfr_t_s de SaWs..
Bum  dder                                         nb                 2              2             2              2             -             a       0.473        1        1        1        1                 4
Docunw.do_m                                        5                 2              2             2              2                           6       0 394        1        1        1        1                 3
sublo tl F*uWe* ds Sum.                                                                                                                                             2        2        2        2        -        7
ToWta  ocrs Costb                                                                                                                                                    34       34       34       34       12      149
Tota                                                                                                                                                                 410      141     108       S1        40      731
w * Diron do 1 Condiftn de l Fsww  at de rErdane



Table 9: Institutional Strengthening - Regional Services
OumUles                                                          Sm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~118 Cod
URNt         m3             sun             9137            97011          NM               Toal        URN Coo    N       M             ml    9711       Inr   TOW
1. I.vonoitd Cos
A. ~wt
Roh*dWbw bu                              m2                   -            200             200             150                             550       049          -       94       94        70        -      25
ReMb Lq_4gw.                             m2                   -            150             150             100               -             400       0936         -      141      141        94               375
Subtotl BImont                                                                                                                                                             234      234       164        -       33
t. Vohkuls
Toutivin                                 nb-6 6                                                                              -              18      23262                140       40       140        -      419
LOgnm                                    nb                  3               6               6                               -              15      11631        35       70       70                  -      174
Mdsocyc1~                                nb                                 22              22              22             15               81       3103         -       68       68                 47      251
Bancyhl                                  nb                   -            150             150             100                             400       0 209        -       31       31        21        -        4
Sob'I Vhbk_os                                                                                                                                                      35      309      309       229       47      928
C. Equlpm nnt
Ph F_oopleume                            nb                   -              6               6               3                              is        181         -       11       11         5                27
Ordlnoi.w                                nb                   -             15              15              10               -              40       4 023        -       60       60        40        -      161
Ronoo                                    nb                   -              3               3               2                               8       2 514        -        8        8         5                20       u'
Rtqm4opjl                                nb                   -              3               3               2               -               a       1509         -        5        5         3                12       '
EqulOmiGR                               fofk                  -              3               3               2               -               8       5029         -          5     15       10        -       40
Subol   Eqlo                                                                                                                                                        -       9        Ke        64               260
D. Aslstwic. Itchnaqu.
Couet                                    him                                 6               6               6              3               21      16667         -      100       100      100       50      350
E. Ponnaden
Vcy     uo                               14                   -             90              90              60             60              300         0 3        -       27       27       1I        is       9g
Foslonbenb l                                                               600             600             400            320             1.920      0066                 41       41       28        22      132
FmlonArtwVwr                           01mm                   -              6              12              12               -              30       6111         -       37       73       73         -      183
Subtoal "WFen                                                                                                                                                              105      142       119       40     406
Totl Investoinot Cows                                                                                                                                                35      U47      884      676       137    2577
If. Rocumnt Cods
A. Indonnlt
bunw                                                       SW 600        1.200           3,600           3,60           3.600           12,600      0009         5        10       31       31       31      109
Tedwicians                               hfr             1800            3.600           5,400           5.400          5.400           21.600      0005         9        19       26       28       28      112
Vulglo                                  t                12,000         24,000          36,000          36.000         36.000          144.000       0003       41        63      124      124      124      497
Chouffl w uX                                               300             600             600            600             800            3,300      0003         1         2        3        3        3        11
SubtolIndemnlt                                                                                                                                                    57       114      186      188      186      726
D. Entrie.n vthkmlu
ToitlArren                               nb                   -              9              18             24              24               75      4766          -       43       Ks      115      115      359
Ltgor                                    nb                  3               9              14              16             16               58      2 216        7        20       31       35       35       129
mck      onb                                                  -             22              44             66              81              213      0.796         -       18       35       53       65      170
Subtotal Entrbeon v&hkule                                                                                                                                          7        81      152      203      215      657
C. Entiet.. batunqt
Bureau                                  nib                                 18              26             48              48              140       1666         -       30       44       81       81      236
D. Fourniltum de buraux
Burdoimdlr dbin                          nb                                 21              42             56              56              175      0473          -       10       20       27       27       83
Bureaux erian                            nb                   -            147             273            357             357            1.134      0118          -       17       32       42       42      134
Documentaion                           1o01at                                3               6              9               9               27      0789         -        2         5        7        7       21      >
Subtotal Feuintro de bueaux                                                                                                                                                30        57       76       76      238      :
Total Retuntnt Cods                                                                                                                                                 64       254      439      546      558    1860       I
Totl                                                                                                                                                                 Ks    1,101    1322    1.221        694    4.438



Table 10: Technical Capacity Building - Detailed Costs
Unit      34/       36=        Ml/e77m           MiS1       Totad    Unit Cost  34/3M    91MI   OM 7 37m           36      TOd
Li hvestfafw  Coa
Foimsaon da Agens d   nin                            da                                                                                 31      31       62       62      62      248
Fomullon da sevcades                               god b"                                                                               34      34       26       17              112
Fonm   gaaion el bud                                  s                                                                                  7        7       -        -        -      14
AT-- udgti 01i  lu--mft iabNl                      hWm           105          3         2        1         1       17.5    16.667      175      50       33       17       17     292
Tota                                                                                                                                     247      122      121      0        79
Table 11:  Monitoring/Evaluation and Audit - Detailed Costs                                     (uS aoo)
_uattis                                                                   Bas Cod
Unit       MM         36/96      96197       97/9S  9199          Total    Unit CoSt   04136    906         96/37       7/16   91U199    Toal
L lnvesbnwd Costs
A. SulIVlEvaLuston                                                                                                                                                                           ul
Mat ral denquite               forfai                                                                                         3               -         -         -             3
Frals denqutrse                forfaa                                                                                         2         2         2         2         2         9
Mwi"oordfteuns                   nb              8           -          -           -         -         8        1.509       12          -         -         -         -       12
ATde um                         h/m               2          2          1           1         -         6       11.111       22        22        11        11          -       67
Audi tes oonIdes               fortfa 11                                                                                              55        1      515          15        75
TOta                                                                                                                              53         39        28        28        17      165
Table 12: WUAs Contribution to Maintenance - Detailed Costs
(USs DM)
rusgidtlas                                       Unit                       Bass Coat
Unk        34/           36/3           "Ml7          976                          Total      Codt    43       SLIM     617    7         5      Ta
I. hnvas&iwt Cost
Cctiaataon dan nwe,oo        bal6             0.000        168000         16.00         18,000         20,000        78,000   0017      138     276      276     310      345   1 345
TrOW                                                                                                                                       138     276     276      310     34    134   I
X



55
Annex 2
Declaration of Irrigation Sector Policy
MADAGASCAR
Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Draft)
I.     Agricultural Development Strategy
1.    Within the framework of its overall development policy, the Government of the Republic
of Madagascar aims both to improve the standard of nutrition of the population, develop and
diversify exports, and supply its domestic industries with raw materials, while at the same time
improving management of the natural environment.
2.     The low growth rate of the agricultural sector in recent years may be attributed to four
factors: an unfavorable macroeconomic environment, an unbalanced pattern of public investment,
inadequacy of the legal and regulatory framework, and poor natural resource management. The
agricultural sector has the potential to become one of the driving forces of accelerated economic
growth. Given the geography of the country and the constraints linked to settlement and
development of the underpopulated regions, such growth is going to come less from an expansion
of activities in those regions than from the intensification and diversification of production in
already developed areas, although this does not imply that other areas would be neglected. The
Government intends to gradually redeploy the public resources in such a way as to promote the
establishment of the conditions that will favor the sector's accelerated development.
3.     Macroeconomic Enviromnent. The Government confirms its commitment to a liberal
economic policy favoring the free play of market forces. It is pursuing its objective of direct
divestiture from the production, processing and marketing sectors. To offer the necessary
economic incentives, it will include among its new policies:
-      an exchange policy that will enable exports to remain competitive by preventing
overvaluation of the currency and will ensure freedom of access to foreign
exchange (both for goods and services and for capital transactions);
-      a tariff and fiscal policy that will not discriminate against the agricultural sector
in favor of the other sectors of the economy; the restructuring of the customs
tariff is designed to eliminate intersectoral distortions in this area;
a financial policy (reduction of the budget deficit and improvement of the
banking system) that will increase the availability of credit to the private sector,
thereby facilitating private investment and the development of competition.
4.     Public Investment.  As regards public investment in the agricultural sector, the
Government intends to make better use of its limited financial and human resources by gradually
reducing the number of independent projects existing in the field. It intends to combine these



56
development efforts into a small number of national programs. These programs will seek greater
harmonization of the efforts so far made in the field by adopting those formulas and approaches
that have yielded the best results and the best cost/benefit ratio. It will mobilize domestic and
external funding to ensure that a greater number of farmers have access to such basic specialized
services as agricultural research, extension and animal health. It proposes to streamline the
public expenditure budget for the agricultural sector by reducing the share of capital and
operating expenditure in the irrigation sector in favor of improved maintenance of public physical
infrastructures such as roads and marketplaces and cofinancing of the programs mentioned above.
It is understood that the maintenance of certain structures (such as those found on the GPIs) is
beyond the technical and financial capacities of the users and will therefore be performed by the
Government as a public service.
5.     This new approach will be accompanied by the decentralization of government actions,
as provided under the Constitution of the Republic of Madagascar. The Government intends to
promote greater participation by local beneficiaries in the infrastructure construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance (O&M), focusing in particular on getting them to assume the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the irrigation works that presently lies with the
Government. It intends to expand the role of the local authorities and economic operators in the
work of repairing and maintaining farm roads and to promote the development of local markets.
6.     Legislative and Regulatory Framework. Certain reforms have already been undertaken,
notably those involving rewriting of the Investment Code and of legislation on free trade zones,
which measures are intended to stimulate investment throughout the entire economy.  The
Government intends to pursue these efforts by improving the Labor Code and introducing one-
stop windows to streamline the procedures involved in the setting up of a new business. It is also
in process of drafting new legislation concerning such matters as quality promotion and control,
occupational organizations, inter-occupational associations, and the procedures for transferring
responsibility for maintenance and management of irrigated areas. These drafts will shortly be
submitted to the National Assembly for ratification.
7.     Natural Resource Management. Within the framework of its Environmental Action
Plan, the Government places a strong emphasis on the need for effective natural resource
management and protection of the irrigation infrastructure as essential to the achievement of
sustainable development. New investments will not take place until the pertinent environmental
impact assessment has been made. Formulation of the procedures to be followed in such
assessments is nearing completion.



57
II. General Irrigation Sector Development Policy
8.     Being aware of the importance of irrigated agriculture to the economy in general and to
the agricultural sector in particular, the Government has for several years been mobilizing large
amounts of money to stimulate the productivity and efficiency of this subsector. Despite these
efforts, the irrigation sector is characterized by a low level of performance that falls far short of
its potential. This is due to: (a) lack of diversification, since the principal crop grown in the
irrigation schemes is rice, produced largely for on-farm consumption; (b) stagnating agricultural
yields; (c) little progress in the transfer to the users of the responsibility for managing and
running the classified schemes; and (d) lack of irrigation infrastructure maintenance and poor
water management. Nevertheless, the economic and financial analysis has confirmed that, based
on the existing technologies and crops, intensification of irrigated agriculture remains a
proposition that is both financially attractive for the farmers and profitable for the country's
overall economy.
9.     The Government's strategy in support of the irrigation subsector is to continue to provide
the favorable framework that is necessary to the intensification and diversification of irrigated
farming. More precisely, it will encourage the WUAs to assume the O&M costs of the schemes
that have up to now been managed essentially by the Government, providing them with the
appropriate expert services and technical assistance and supporting the creation of farmer groups
and associations. In particular, the Government proposes to:
(a)    concentrate efforts and resources on improving the institutional operation of the
irrigation subsector, defining the respective institutional responsibilities and
capacities of subsector operators, both public and private. In particular, the
farmers will be encouraged to participate and to make their wishes known;
(b)    curb transfers of public funds to irrigated farming, reducing operating subsidies
to a level that will nonetheless allow the farmers to meet their obligations. This
reduction of subsidies will help promote both the optimum use of existing
irrigation infrastructure and the intensification of agriculture by freeing up public
funds for use in the support of such projects as roads, agricultural extension,
agricultural research and marketing information services, all of which will
facilitate agricultural intensification and diversification;
(c)    make all new public investments in the irrigation subsector (regardless of source
of financing) subject to the following principles: (i) full participation by the
beneficiaries of the recommended investments in the management and
maintenance costs of irrigation infrastructure; (ii) systematic attention to the
environmental aspect, which will add to the sustainability of the investments; and
(iii) the assurance of a satisfactory return on the investments, both for the
individual beneficiaries and for the irrigation scheme as a whole.
10.    The following actions will be taken to implement this policy:  (i) consultation and
agreement between the public authorities and the users concerning their respective responsibilities
as regards scheme operation and management; (ii) improved resource mobilization at both the
central and the decentralized levels, through coordination and concentration of local and external
financing in support of sectoral public service programs; (iii) improvement of the programming
and planning process at the local level, with active WUA participation; (iv) decentralization and



58
strengthening of the human and material resources of the Ministry of Agriculture, so as to
enhance coordination and improve the quality of the technical support services provided to the
farmers; (v) strengthening of training activities targeting both the public authorities and the
beneficiaries of the irrigation scheme rehabilitation programs; and (vi) enactment of legislation
governing the procedures for transfer to the users of the responsibility for the rehabilitated
irrigation schemes.
11.    The volume of financing needed to revamp the national network of classified irrigation
schemes outstrips the Government's present financial capacity. It is therefore understood that
future financing priorities for both GPI and PPI rehabilitation projects will be allocated in priority
to those schemes where the water users have already demonstrated the comrmitment and capacity
to form themselves into organizations capable of assuming responsibility for the operation and
management of a rehabilitated network. This demonstration of commitment and capacity on the
part of the farmers is thus a condition for the execution of any new rehabilitation project or
program. The criteria to be adopted for the selection of additional schemes will be identified and
described on the basis of experience gained in the next phase of the irrigation rehabilitation
program.
12.    The extent of the various maintenance and management responsibilities under any new
rehabilitation programs will be described in the terms of reference prepared for each individual
scheme at the time of the rehabilitation study, in consultation with the water users and other
beneficiaries. These terms of reference will in particular define the role of the government
officials and the WUAs and the annual levels of financing needed to enable both sides to meet
their respective commitments. The principles governing the transfer of responsibility for O&M
costs are covered by ministerial decrees Nos . ..... dated .
13.    The specific details of implementation of this policy are presented in the attached table.
November 12, 1993



OBJECTIVE                           STRATEGY                                                 ACTION PLAN                                          STATUS
1. Ensure sustainability of        1.1 Creation of and support for     1.1. I Improve and enforce the regulatory framework governing the establishment,  Ongoing
irrigation infrastructure, in      the WUAs in all the irrigation      operation and legal capacity of the WUAs.
order to:                          schemes
- foster intensification of                                            1.1.2 Provide the WUAs with all necessary technical, organizational and logistic  Ongoing
agriculture                                                            support.
- promole diversification of
agricultural systems                                                   1.1.3 Evaluate results obtained in the process of empowering the WUAs to take     Iterative
- promote the region's specific                                        over management and maintenance of irrigation networks.
advantages
1.2 Land-holding security           1.2.1 Facilitate access to the land (land-tenure and cadastral surveys, ODOC).   In progress
1.2.2 Enact regulations governing owner/farmer relations, clearly spelling out  In progress
respective maintenance responsibilities
1.3 Redefinition of tasks and roles    1.3.1 Redefine the roles of Genie Rural in the area of irrigation scheme      By July 1995
of the departments of the Ministry    management and mnaintenance, as follows:
of Agriculture and Rural            - to provide advice to the WUAs;
Development                         - to manage and take action to safeguard structures when public safety is in
jeopardy;                                                                                                v-
- actions to safeguard the infrastructure (closing of networks whose sustainability is
jeopardized by defective management and/or maintenance).
1.3.2 Strengthen local agencies in all aspects of their work, pending effective  By end 1966
implementation of the decentralization process.                                  in the Project
areas
1.3.3 Prepare regulations and manuals of procedure deriving from the development    By end 1997
of government functions and roles in the irrigation sector.
1.4 Resource orientation in light   1.4.1 Perform diagnostic study of WUA operations.                                By October
of the WUAs' capacity to assume                                                                                      1966
responsibility for their schemes
1.4.2 Determine levels of contribution.                                          Management
contract



1.5 Effective user participation in  1.5 .1 Ensure effective user participation in all study phases and in the development    Ongoing
development of the irrigation        activities.
schemes
1.5.2 Conduct in-depth orientation studies.                                        Ongoing
1.5.3 Favor a gradual approach to the development activities.                      Ongoing
1.6 Environmental protection for     1.6.1 Systematize the diagnostic study of the irrigation schemes' environmental     Ongoing
the irrigation schemes               situation and its impact on their sustainability, and identify necessary conservation  starting 1997
or restoration activities.
1.6.2 Irnplement and monitor the proposed activities with effective participation by  Ongoing
the target population.                                                              starting 1997
1.6.3 Participate in the drafting of environmental protection regulations (PAE     Completed
Program).
2. Reduction of Goverument's         2.1 Government divestiture from      2.1.1 Improve and enforce regulations on transfer of management taking account      Ongoing
rliuacial contribution to the       management and                        of specific features of the schemes and the regions.                                starting 1994
irrigation sector                    maintenance of irrigation networks                                                                                                                      0r
2.1.2 Promote alternatives for maintenance work that cannot be performed by         Studies to be
users.                                                                              conducted in
1995
2.1.3 Facilitate operator access to the purchase or rental of network maintenance  MEADR
equipment.                                                                         serinar June
1996
2.2 Mobilization of resources of     2.2.1 Set up a system to finance maintenance of the irrigation systems with         Studies in
all sector operators                 contributions from all parties concerned (WUAs, economic operators, decentralized    progress
authorities, Government).
2.2.2 Set up a permanent emergency [intervention d'urgencel fund as a sustainable    By end 1997
source of financing to cover cyclone damnage.
2.2.3 Promote good donor coordination in the irrigation sector.                    Coordinating
Committee



61
Annex 3
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMIENT
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.     The environmental component of the Madagascar Irrigation Rehabilitation Project includes
all recommendations for environmental mitigation developed by the Environmiiental Analysis (EA)
of the project. For EA purposes the project is rated category B in view of tlle rehabilitation
aspect of project interventions and the limited extent of small-perimiieter irrigation. The project's
environmental analysis is one of the first in the agriculture sector in Madagascar and is expected
to be helpful in design of environmental policies and assessmenit criteria for other agricultural
projects as well. Project environmental actions will be coordinated with specialized agencies,
notably ONE and ANAE. ONE has broad oversight responsibilities in environmental assessment
which are currently being defined more precisely. The manidate of ANAE is to coordinate ail
activities in erosion control, deforestation and watershed managemiienit.
Environmental Impacts of Rehabilitation
2 .    Irrigation has a major positive impact in terms of increasing yields and increasing national
productivity and has the indirect benefits of improving local standards of living antd local diets.
In Madagascar, irrigation also has a positive impact outside the irrigated perimeters, in the sense
that it alleviates agricultural pressure on the marginal 'tanety' and 'tavy' lands.
3.     For a perimeter to fully benefit from a rehabilitation program, it is critically important
that rehabilitation is carried out in a manner that is technically and environmiienitally sound. Two
categories of environmental impacts of rehabilitation are distinguished:  direct impacts and
external impacts. The direct impacts concern the effects of the rehabilitation process oii the
environment, and the external or indirect impacts pertain to the influenlce of the environment on
the irrigated perimiieters. In many ways, the external impacts tend to aggravate the direct imipacts.
4.     Direct Impacts. Two direct impacts are of special importance in the rehabilitation of
perimeters: (a) the problems due to errors and omissionis in tecliical designi and (b) the damage
caused bv construction during the actual physical rehabilitation. With proper technical inputs and
sufficient care during construction, those impacts can and must be reduced to negligible. The
direct impacts that are normially considered in intensive irrigation such as soil degradation,
surface water contamination by fertilizers and pesticides, and the increased risk of water born
diseases appear insignificant in the rehabilitated perimeters in Madagascar and should remaini at
that level with sound farming and maintenance practices.
5.     External Impacts. Degradation of watersheds upstream of the perimeters has a moderate
to high adverse impact on some vulnerable perimeters.  In addition, cyclonies hiave on some
occasions a moderate to very high impact on the environment, in particular during the
rehabilitation phase but also during actual perimeter operations.



62
Environmental Actions
6.     The project will make an important effort to remedy  or to avoid the adverse
environmental impacts of rehabilitation, of past as well as present rehabilitation. A key step in
this process is to conduct an environmental analysis prior to the rehabilitation of new perimeters.
The project will institute specific EA for all rehabilitation perimeters and promote the assessment
process. Three studies will be financed and institutional support will be provided.
7.     In the case of existing rehabilitated perimeters, perimeter-specific environmental analyses
will be done in one single retrospective evaluation, one perimeter after the other. For the new
perimeters, individual environmental analyses will be part of the standard perimeter selection and
planing process which is currently being revised. To assist in preparation of these perimeter-
specific analyses, a series of mitigation recommendations have been developed by the project.
These recommendations are intended to serve as a reference in the development of environmental
plans.
8.     Environmental Analysis and Actions for Rehabilitated Perimeters. The immediate
purposc of the environmental analysis is (1) to identify the environmental problems of all 30
perimeters that were rehabilitated in the first phase of the project, and (2) to propose corrective
measures, including "travaux confortatifs". It is best to carry out this analysis before end 1994,
in order not to delay continued rehabilitation efforts. The irrigation infrastructure improvements
will be integrated in the project's "travaux confortatifs" programs as defined in the Hydro-
Agricultural component of the project. Watershed management works will not be limited to
damage control, but will also include preventive measures.
9.     Urgent protection measures in rehabilitated perimeters will be included, as far as
practical, in irrigation infrastructure work already assigned to construction companies. Simple
conservation measures, which can be implemented by farmers themselves without much project
support, will be identified. In the case of the latter, the technical specifications, work schedules
and maintenance requirements will be determined jointly by farmers and Government agents
(ADR/CA/CH).
10.    Environmental Analysis and Actions for New Rehabilitation. The strengthening of
environmental aspects during the studies phase. the implementation and perimeter operation will
be ensured by systematic environmental analysis of each new perimeter. Most environmental
measures will aim at prevention and avoidance of adverse environmental impacts. Environmental
analyses for the new perimeters will become part of the preparation process of each perimeter
as they will be integrated into the newly developed "Etudes Approfondies d'Orientation (EAO)"
which will be carried out for each perimeter.  The analyses will be conducted by the
environnmental specialist of the EAO team. Each of these evaluations will include an assessment
of the impact of the upstream watershed on the perimeter and consideration of the impact of
rehabilitation on neighboring perimeters.
11.    The new EAO procedure for new perimeters evolved from a more restricted approach
used in phase one of the project to strengthen farmer participation and to handle enviromnental
concerns. As a result, the EAO now comprises a series of parallel studies on the following
subjects: irrigation infrastructure, agriculture-livestock, environment, social organization and
institutionial requirements. and financial feasibility. The integration of environmental analysis in
the EAO ensures that environmental concerns in perimeter rehabilitation are identified at an early



63
stage, and that they can be incorporated into rehabilitation design, which is expected to lead to
more sustainable perimeter rehabilitation.
Studies and Institutional Support
12.    The environmental analyses will be supported by a series of studies which are scheduled
to be carried out at the beginning of the second project phase. Three studies are involved: (1)
a study of the legal aspects of cyclone damage, (2) a study of the vulnerability of irrigation
perimeters to erosion, and (3) a synthesis of the approaches and techniques of watershed
management currently known and applied in Madagascar's four main natural regions.
13.    The start-up, supervision, and monitoring of environmental analyses, actions and studies
will be entrusted to a special Environmental Unit at the "Direction du Genie Rural (DGR)". An
environmental specialist will be responsible for the Environmental Unit. The coordination with
other Government and private agencies necessary to implement environmental tasks will be in
collaboration with the National Coordination office of the project.
14.    Malgache consulting firms need to strengthen their environmental assessment capability
in order to effectively contribute to perimeter rehabilitation. The project will provide limited
support to these firms to assist them in building up their environmental competence. Two
environmental training workshops are scheduled to be organized in collaboration with ACMA
(Association of Malgache Consultants) to focus on environmental assessment of agricultural
projects.
Cost
15.    Total basic costs (without inflation) of the environmental component of the project are
US $1,682,000, or about 3,200 million FMG. About 82% of this total amount is allocated to
environmental analyses and improvements which will benefit approximately 40 perimeters of both
project phases, 8% of the total amount is allocated to support studies, and 11% to institutional
support.



64
Annex 4
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHIABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Medium-Sized Irrigation Schemes (PPIs)
by Source of External Funding during the First Project (PPI-1)
(hectares)
Realisations
Surface 1986  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  Total
Banque mondiale
1 Andreambe         130      -      -      -       -   130        -      -       -  130
2 Mananantanana     733             -      -       -   500    133    100         -  733
3 Ankona            250      -                                    -      -   250   250
4 Basse-Ankona      437             -          -          -       -      -   437   437
5 Alakamisy Ambohi  457      -      -      -       -      -              -   457   457
6 Ivakoanina         182         -      -      -      -       -          -   182   182
7 Anjiajia          452      -      -                 -       -               452   452
8 Ankijabe           120     -      -                     -       -   120        -  120
9 Ampary            101      -      -      -                           101          101
10 Analavory        140      -      -                                 140           140
11 Antanimenakely    88         -          -       -      -       -    88        -   88
12 Ambalanirana     113         -      -       -      -           -   113        -  113
Sous-total IDA     3 203                               630    133    662  1 778 3203
Caisse fran;aise de
developpement
13 Soavina         1200  600   600         -       -      -       -      -         1200
14 Ambohibary      2380      -      -  1 200  1 180       -       -      -       -2380
15 Manandona        820      -      -   300    520        -       -      -       -  820
16 Iandratsay       630      -      -   130    500                -      -       -  630
17 Vinaninony       710      -      -   350    360        -       -      -       -  710
18 Onive           1040      -      -      -       -      -       -      -   800   800
19 Vatambe          436      -      -      -       -      -      -   200    236   436
20 Ikianja          379          -     -       -      -           -      -   379   379
21 Ivato             360     -      -      -       -      -       -      -   300   300
22 ILot 1 Manakara   1 095       -     -       -       -          -      -   500   500
22 Lot 2 Manakara   1368     -      -      -       -      -       -   300  1 068 1368
Sous-total CCCE    10 418  600   600  1 980  2 560        -       -   500  3 363 9 523
FED                 1
23 Behara           800  200   600         -       -      -       -      -       -  800
24 Belamoty        1 200  300   900            -      -       -          -       - 1 200
25 Taheza R.D.     1 200     -      -                  600    600        -       - 1 200
26 Manornbo Ranozaza 935     -      -      -       -      -       -      -   935   935
27 Ankerika         252      -      -      -       -              -   126    126   252
28 Andengondroy       52     -      -      -                           26      26    52
29 Maroadabo         115     -      -      -       -      -       -    50      65   115
Sous-total         4 554  500 1 500        -       - 600    600    202  1 152 4 554
PNUD/FA0/'PAM
32 Andakana         225 1 1         1                          225 0             -  225
33 Mafngamila        180            -      -       -      -     80    100        -180
Sous-total          405      -      -      -       -305    100                      405
PNUD/FA0 PAM
TOTAL GENERAL   18 580 1 100 2 100  1 980  2 560  1 230  1 038  1 464  6 21317 685



65
Annex 5
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Calculation of Incremental Benefits/Costs Stream
and Internal Economic Return
RICE                          PY1        PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5       PYS        PY7       PY8        PYg       PY10
WMrh pcto
Area he)                          16000      1a0o0     16000     18000      20000     20000      20000    20000       20000     20000
Y,oid                                1.9        1.9       1.9       1.9        1.9       1.9        1.9       1 9       1.9        1.9
P,odueson (tom..l                 30,400    30400      30400     34200    38000       38000    38000    38000        38000      380C0
Wr1`1 pctq
Area he)                          1e000      16000     16000      18000     20000     20000      20000     20000      20000     20000
Y,old                                  2       2.1        2.2       2.4        2.4       2.4       2. 4       2.4       2.4        2.4
Incroaa, i cropc.g intensity %      1.05        1.1       1.1       1.1        1.1       1.1        11        11  I               1 1
P crod n Itoine)s                 336OO    36960       38720    47520    52800        52800      52800     52800     52900      528C5
Inceran nl Production              3200       6560      8320      13320     14800     14800      14800     14800      14800     14800
POTATOES
Without pr1roa
Aroa (hal                             80        80        80         80        80         80        80        80         80        80
Yiald                                 la        16         15        l         16         15    6              1 6I      16         15
Produrt.on llot es)                 1280      1280      1280       1280      1 280      1280      1280      1280       1280      1280
Wrtr  ct
Area the)                            150       300       450        500       500        500       500       500        500       500
Y(eJd                                 1         1a    6   1           16      15 1a               1 a        I6        1         15
Production Ionnes)                 2400      4800      7200       8000      8000      8000       8000      8000       8000      8000
Increa.nttl osoducton               1120      3520      5920       6720      6720      6720       6720      5720       6720      6720
TRITICALE
Wrhourt prq.ct
Area iha)                             90        90        90         90        90         90        90        90         90        90
Y'ld                                 2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2 5       2.5        2.5       2 5        2.5
Production rtotsnel                  225       225       225        225       225        225       225       225        225       225
Wth pf-ct
Area th)                             150       300       450        500       500       500        500       500        500       50
Y,ald                                2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5       2 5
Proructron (tonnacl                  375       750      1125       1250      1250      1250       1250      1250       1250      1250
lner,rn nttproduction                150       525       900       1025      1025       1025      1025      1025       1025      1025
FIS H
W7r,owt pr  ¶
Area iha)                            100       100        100       100       100        100       100        100       100        100
Y, lid                              0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04       0 04
Produecon (tonnacl                     4         4          4         4         4          4         4          4         4          4
Wrth prqor
Area the                             150       200       300        400       400        400       400       400        400       400
Y'.oid                              0. 0.4     0.1        0.2      0.25        0.3       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3        0 3
Produnc1on itonnas)                    a        20        50        100       120        120       120        120       120        1 20
Incre-mnta m   rsduce,on               2        1 a       56         96       11 6       11 6      115        11 6      11         15
Ecow,ovw vkmb of
hSrWt*W pWO&Kion ai
Paddy@                    224   715800  1459440  1853580  2983680  3315200  3315200  3315200  3315200  3315200  3315200
PotatoaeO                  83    9295o   292160   491360    557780   557760   557750   557750   557750   557750   557760
Tr,caJta@                 248     37200    130200   223200   254200    254200    254200   254200   254200    254200   254200
fen h)                    857       1714     13712    47992      82272      99412     99412    99412       99412      99412     99412
TOTAL                            848674  1905512  2625232  3877912  4225572  4225572  4226572  4225572  4226572  4226572
Tota m ' 000s            1000        849      1906      2e2e       3878      4227      4227       4227      4227       4227      4227
1 yew doir yn bnefaits                 0       849      1906       2526      3878      4227       4227      4227       4227      4227
E'neno pxq.        (rnot of taxl
1684      2504      4835      6481       3552        685       S85       685        es5s       85
NM 8i.4h /C.sta                     -835      -598      .2010     -2503       675       3542      3542      3542       3542      3542
NetB/Cwrth I y.ewdtey n8           .1584     .1655      -2731     -3854       326       3542      3542      3542       3542      3542
Internlt rate of retum              27%
IER wth 1 yIVam do4av n banefits    13%
al datalAd cieulation of econrrme pnces taen from FAOICP proymetrain report 9i93CP-MAG 35 -nnex 7.



66
Annex 6
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Performance Indicators
Indicator                              PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY4    PY5
Water Users' Associations
Execution of maintenance works by WUAs (%)    100     100     100      100     100
Membership dues (percentage collected)        80      90      100      100     100
Maintenance dues (percentage collected)       50      65      80       90      90
Average number of meetings by WUAS            2       2       2        2       2
Performance of Irrigation schemes
Water availability - percentage covered regularly  50  60     70       80      80    |
Agricultural production
Increases in rice yields (%)                  5       5        10      10      10
Increase in area planted to potatoes (ha)     150     300     450      500     500
Increase in area planted to triticale (ha)    150     300     450      500     500
Increase in the area of fish farming (ha)     150     200     300      400     400
Agricultural extension
Number of demonstration plots per ADR         40      40      40      40       40
Rate of adoption of technical messages (%)    10      20      30      40       50
Harmonization of agricultural extension systems   5   10      15       30      30
in the project area (cumulative number of
schemes)                                                                             l
New rehabilitation schemes
Indicators to be fixed during the mid-term    0       0       0
review



67
Annex 7
MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA FY/Quarter End           DISBURSEMENT                 ACCUMULATED    %
DURING QUARTERS    DISBURSEMENTS
FY95
September 30, 1994                       0.2                       0.2            1
December 31, 1994                       0.5                        0.7           2
March 31, 1995                           0.3                       1.0            1
June 30, 1995                            0.3                       1.3            1
September 30, 1995                       0.4                       1.7           2
December 31, 1995                        0.5                       2.2           2
March 31, 1996                           0.5                       2.7           2
June 30, 1996                            0.5                       3.2            2
September 30, 1996                       0.7                       3.9            3
December 31, 1996                        0.8                       4.7           4
March 31, 1997                           0.8                       5.5           4
June 30, 1997                            1.0                       6.5            5
September 30, 1997                       1.0                       7.5           5
December 31, 1997                        1.2                        8.7          6
March 31, 1998                           1.2                       9.9           6
June 30, 1998                            1.2                       11.1           6
September 30,1998                        1.2                       12.3          6
December 31, 1998                        1.2                       13.5          6
March 31, 1999                           1.3                       14.8          6
June 30, 1999                            1.3                       16.1           6
September 30, 1999                       1.3                       17.4           6
December 31, 1999                        1.3                       18.7           6
March 31, 2000                           1.2                       19.9           6
June 30 2000                             1.2                       21.1           6



68
Annex 8
Documents Contained in the Project File
1.    Rapport d'evaluation 1985 a 1992 - Coordination Nationale du Projet PPI - Cellule de
Suivi-Evaluation - Mars 1993
2.     Project de Rehabilitation des Petits Perimetres Irrigues - Phase 2 - Mission de Preparation
Vol I et II. Centre d'Investissement Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque Mondiale -
janvier 1993.
3.     Plan d'Action 1991-1995 (actualisation Janviuer 1993) - Secretariat General, Ministere
de l'Agriculture - Comite de Coordination du Projet de Rehabilitation des Petits
Perimetres Irrigues
4.     Contribution a la Revue du Sous-Secteur Irrigation - Henri Boumendil - Consultant en
irrigation - janvier 1991
4.     Evaluation de la Perception des Associations d'Usagers de l'Eau par leurs membres et
diagnostic sur l'evolution des AUE - Paul Mathieu, Consultant socio-organisateur (LBI) -
Aouit 1991
5.     Etude de Sociologie du Fonctionnement des P6rimetres Irrigues - A. Razakarivony et
E.P. Brown. Mars 1990
6.     Assessment of Environmental Issues Realting to Irrigation Investments in Madagascar -
Jeffrey Metzel and Katherine Baird for Associates for International Development, Dec
1990
7.     Textes Legislatifs AUE - Vol I et II - Edition Bilingue - Minist&re de l'Agriculture - PPI
Fevrier 1991



69
Map: IBRD N°25595 - Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project












MADAGASCAR
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES PERIMETRES IRRIGUES
12                                                                                                                                                                                  4 2--
40860604   sco 044. e4-40404044o4 -    IREIGATION SChEMES BY FINANCIER
lArea I hestooeol 
I IDA7 
ETJ  m                                                                    M.,flogag~~~~CFD205
FED                                              A-.~4~,;o            : 4  
l__9    ___ 1  ;                 PNUD/FAO/PAMJ4
r~         E I  I   ____         ADB                                                                        0 ,6 s;   ,AD
PAVED ROADS
ROUTES GOUDRONNEES                                              t
Alt-WEATHER ROADS
ROUTES ACCESSI3ES EN TOUTE SAISON                           A   nlo .                      J
RAILROADS                                       ,                    TCANTSIRANANA I
14A                                                         CHEfMN DEFER                                             ,                 3
RIVERS                                           j44)~4
RfVIERES                                        )             ~        2\'
FARITANY BOUNDARIES                                                                      So boo
UMIPES DES FARITANY
g,S2|1                   A^olooO ,)              S     ,,               00dopo             
| l4d0.o  440|                            ^      nsocS 4404                                        \Aaoloho
A1 17f0:dr4or                                    .        \
__~~~~~~~S,ah ___4 044iu844n 02                      ,          -.    -~~6 n                     /    i            40Z;  *r4
I S344         a Mo' W:                lAS  t----4           t  -            P4- -.- -  M.
-16-                                                                                                                                                                     16~~464~a.0~49    Ooo -     
M o z a m b i q u e                                     MA H A J AN G A 'w
_ _ _ _ _ _                             -~0 4 4.0 4 0  
Mo    --bro                                    At  ,,.   ~ 9~ , .o     fo oL
}t.          0Al jtofo00   452nln                   °         44oXru  4   ,.                                                             4                   -} ,   T )M SN ,        18-
Fla r,I                     ]                     \                     .                   044b                    I            /4 3004o,44ofolltFnnr _____
r------ 6461 RDtsld R=0                                             -f  ,t                                                 "1 |-   Ctly1    )5g   1 MAOLMl5    a
A.6 ..... -.1~~~~~~~~4                               4 
1 B M*ond~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                    l      w N          d j      .4-,o                7  4+
I AnGoolm orielyh88 j   otszbehwoo             Mond -4obAnd o.o
-2Do                                0                  \'           /                 <          /          <          -           i     - ow,3 4>.,,,   244420
Te t-628:                                                                  ANTANA
.l            {      Ambololwn=ndrahon/                         2JNngyYafi.**ze           I*6(Nh4D4IaA                        IN
48' ~      ~ I      ' 0.d14R04  4   Mrl ,04440             |,,040000  -     '        -lo           5            _1f   R ,8'
'    <                  r           Ih°'fWANFANARNS 
L I    A .               T6R Y  -
\  \   j .   A  <  E ;,laR 1t.t7~~~~~~~~~-6.-------- 
I                 So.o00h0         R*0440 /,                                              4      4i       AM    SN ,        10ozs5 l;iX..
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --                                       C0                         E  A[
I,I04&4560IIOO                 1      5      440I44         -d                           2203 r   A4    ood                         F                     aoa.  0
040,600                                            46~ ajd                                                                                                        o  oop4doo4
424044844000  Fa4a4,2,o       ~              ~'=                   ..6252
TOLIARY 432..Y.604h                         1.60484          ~         '      ot~
S.k...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~0
4  '4~~~~~~     4                             446040O.d-, . 
-24-                                                                                                                                   IANZA4N44  IAN RANAO
44a4..oo4C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22C  lob,  ' ~ ~            ~            0       so       lo      l 
4 5.aoaa 4400--j  .44~~  -                                          v044O~~~o~    -                                        a0I..gOJaOOO4aOOoKILOMETER



