Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2644 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                (Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 13, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2644 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has issued an irrigation sector policy
statement, dated May 31, 1994, describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's irrigation
sector (hereinafter referred to as "the Program"); and
    (B)   the Borrower has declared its commitment to the execution of the
Program and, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
Page  2
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Coordinating Committee" means the Coordinating Committee
established under paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (b)   "DGR" means Direction du Genie Rural of MEADR;
    (c)   "MEADR" means the Borrower's Ministere d'Etat a l'Agriculture et
au Developpement Rural;
    (d)   "national project coordinator" means the national project
coordinator appointed under paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (e)   "previous project" means the first Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project, for the financing of which a Credit (Credit 1589 MAG) was extended
by the Association to the Borrower;
    (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of
agreement, dated May 13, 1994, between the Borrower and the Association;
    (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
    (h)   "WUA" means a water users association established under the laws
of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR15,000,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not
to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60)
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2004, and
ending June 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 1, 2014, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through MEADR with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Page  4
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end of each
                such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as
                the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of
                the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: namely, a situation has arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
Page  5
the following additional event is specified: namely, any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, the
account referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been
duly opened, and the initial amount of $100,000 equivalent deposited
therein.
    Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Antananarivo 101
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINFIN               22489
                Antananarivo
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                       By /s/ Pierrot Rajao Narivelo
Page  6
                       Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                       Regional Vice President
                       Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                            (Section 2.02 (a))
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated          % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Civil works                7,240,000        100%
(2)     Consultants'               1,850,000        100%
    services
(3)     Vehicles and                 780,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                       expenditures and
                                                    85% of local
                                                    expenditures
(4)     Studies                      440,000        100%
(5)     Travel costs and             810,000        100%
    training
(6) Operating costs                2,000,000        100%
(7)     Refunding of                 530,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(8)     Unallocated                1,350,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     15,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means the
incremental operating costs incurred by the Borrower under the Project on
account of local staff salaries and allowances, maintenance of vehicles,
fuel and equipment, and office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for civil works not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and contracts
for goods and services, and expenditures for operating costs, training and
travel costs, not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                           (Preamble, para. (B))
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to provide improved income levels and
food security for the rural population, strengthen environmental management,
and enhance project implementation capacity through the establishment of
operational procedures for the transfer of responsibility for the operation
and maintenance of public irrigation schemes to water users.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Transfer of Operation and Maintenance of Public
          Irrigation Schemes
1.  Organization of local workshops to explain and discuss the contents and
implications of new regulations on the transfer of irrigation schemes.
2.  Implementation of corrective works and environmental mitigation works
to ensure the satisfactory operation of rehabilitated schemes.
3.  Intensification of extension measures in support of agricultural
operations on the rehabilitated schemes, through the introduction of a
methodology adapted to local requirements.
Part B:   Environmental Protection
1.  Completion of an environmental study of irrigated schemes rehabilitated
under the previous project, in three phases as follows:
    (a)   identification of environmental problems of each scheme;
    (b)   definition of proposed solutions; and
    (c)   implementation of recommendations.
2.  Based on the findings of the study referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Part, preparation of an environmental assessment guide to be used and
applied in the design of any further rehabilitation of irrigated schemes in
the future, and including a synthesis of approaches and techniques of
watershed management currently known and applied in the four main ecological
regions to be found in the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Training of local consultants in environmental impact assessment and in
the design of environmental mitigation measures, thereby strengthening the
national capacity for environmental assessment.
4.  Completion of a study designed to propose guidelines for the creation,
financing arrangements, and operation, of a permanent emergency
rehabilitation fund, to deal with damage caused to irrigation schemes as a
result of natural disasters.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of New Irrigation Schemes
1.  Selection of new irrigated schemes to be rehabilitated.
2.  Rehabilitation of irrigated schemes referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Part, in successive phases as follows:
    (a)   completion of in-depth orientation studies, providing appropriate
details of an irrigation master plan, and giving particulars of such works
as can be undertaken immediately by the water users; and
    (b)   actual implementation of the works, based on the orientation
studies referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.
Part D:   Strengthening of MEADR
    Strengthening the institutional capacity of units and departments of
MEADR involved in the implementation of the Project, thereby enabling MEADR
Page  8
to provide more professional and effective technical support services for
the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes, and the transfer of
agricultural technology.
Part E:   Training
1.  Training of field staff, regional technical and administrative staff,
and national level technical and coordination staff.
2.  Training in financial management, including computerization, and
monitoring and evaluation, for the benefit of local, regional and central
level staff.
Part F:   Monitoring and Evaluation
    Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the Project, having regard,
in particular, to field results, adoption rates of extension messages, and
the performance of the WUAs, both in terms of the collection of dues for
operation and maintenance, and for purposes of implementation of the
operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated schemes.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              (Section 3.02)
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  (a)   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (b)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (c)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more.
3.  Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph
1 (a) above shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by third
parties.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  9
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $460,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Items, or groups of items, estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
Page  10
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                            (Section 3.01 (b))
                          Implementation Program
1.  (a)   For purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the
Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Secretaire General of MEADR, and
consisting of representatives of units and departments of MEADR involved in
the implementation of the Project, and such other representatives, including
representatives of external donors, as may be co-opted or invited to attend
as observers.
    (b)   The Coordinating Committee shall meet not less than twice a year,
and shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project,
including approval of the annual work program referred to in paragraph 4 (a)
(i) of this Schedule.
2.  (a)   The Borrower shall appoint an official of MEADR, whose
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, to be
the national project coordinator and, as such, to be responsible for the
day-to-day management of the Project.
    (b)   The national project coordinator shall, in particular:
          (i)   act as secretary to the Coordinating Committee;
         (ii)   facilitate exchanges between the various units and
                departments involved in the implementation of the Project;
        (iii)   be the focal point for coordination with external donors;
         (iv)   be responsible for:
                (A)    supervision of the day-to-day imple- mentation of
                       the Project;
                (B)    preparation of the annual work program, and
                       semiannual progress reports, referred to in
                       subparagraphs (a) (i) and (b), respectively, of
                       paragraph 4 of this Schedule;
                (C)    consolidation of the accounts referred to in Article
                       IV of this Agreement;
                (D)    centralization of monitoring and evaluation of the
                       activities of the Project; and
                (E)    preparation of the subsequent phases of the Project.
3.  (a)   In each of the regions covered under the Project, the Borrower
shall appoint a regional coordinating committee and a regional project
coordinator.
    (b)   The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 of this Schedule, relating to
the role and functions of the coordinating committee and the national
project coordinator, respectively, shall apply, subject to such
modifications as may be necessary or appropriate, to the regional
coordinating committee and the regional project coordinator.
4.  The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review:
    (a)   not later than October 31 of each year:
          (i)   a proposed annual work program, including the proposed
                budget and financing plan, and training proposals and
Page  11
                proposed procurement procedures, under the Project for the
                forthcoming fiscal year; and
         (ii)   details of its proposed public expenditure program for the
                agricultural sector for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
    (b)   not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, progress
reports on the status of each component of the Project.
5.  (a)   DGR shall be responsible for the execution of irrigation
rehabilitation works, including environment protection measures, under Parts
A.2, B and C of the Project and, to this end, shall:
          (i)   prepare detailed tender documents for the rehabilitation of
                irrigation schemes;
         (ii)   launch tenders for civil engineering and for surveillance
                contracts by consultant engineers;
        (iii)   provide technical support for staff in the regional
                offices; and
         (iv)   supervise the implementation of the Project at the local
                and regional levels.
    (b)   Upon completion of the works referred to in subparagraph (a) of
this paragraph, DGR shall be responsible for the execution of a formal
transfer agreement between the Borrower and the WUAs, giving details of the
respective functions and responsibilities of the WUAs and the Borrower,
including their respective financial liabilities, under the transfer.
6.  For purposes of the selection of schemes to be rehabilitated under Part
C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall have regard to (a) the level of
commitment demonstrated by prospective WUAs, (b) the economic viability of
the proposed schemes, (c) the environmental assessment of such schemes, and
(d) the likelihood, if any, that land tenure issues may arise in relation
to any proposed scheme and prevent the successful transfer of such scheme
to WUAs.
7.  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994, establish a common
policy governing travel allowances payable under projects falling within the
competence of MEADR.
8.  (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than October 31,
1996, undertake, in conjunction with representatives of WUAs, a midterm
review of the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on
all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by
the Borrower of its respective obligations under this Agreement and, in
particular:
          (i)   the progress achieved by the Borrower during the current
                fiscal year, having regard to the performance indicators
                agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;
         (ii)   the status of financial and procurement performance under
                the Project; and
        (iii)   the performance of WUAs under the Project and, in
                particular, the extent to which the transfer of
                responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
                irrigated schemes under the Project has been effective.
    (b)   Not later than one month prior to the midterm review, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of
the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the various matters to
be discussed at the said review.
    (c)   Following the midterm review, the Borrower undertakes to act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the
Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon
Page  12
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
9.  (a)   The Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, an advance account in local
currency, to be operated and maintained by MEADR, into which it shall
deposit from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of
the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $100,000 into
                the account referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
                paragraph; and
         (ii)   have such account replenished on a bimonthly basis, or
                whenever the balance thereof equals not more than one third
                of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
                first.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                            (Section 2.02 (b))
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Page  13
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
