Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8210-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1, 1989)
US$1   =   Philippine Peso (P 22.00)
P 1    =   US$0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,205 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDB      -   Agricultural Researc.n Development r anch (PCA)
CARP      -   Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CETC      -   Coconut Extension Training Center (PCA)
CNO       -   Coconut Oil
COCOFED   -   Coconut Producers' Federation
CPOU      -   Central Project Operations Unit (PCA)
DA        -   Department of Agriculture
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FOB       -   Field Operations Branch (PCA)
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IEC       -   International Economics Department (IBRD)
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
MAWA      -   Hybrid PB121 - A cross between Malayan Dwarf and West African
Tall Coconuts
MCDO      -  Municipal Coconut Development Officer (PCA)
NEDA      -   National Economic Development Authority
ODA       -   Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
ODNRI     -   Overseas Development Research Institute
PCA       -   Philippine Coconut Authority
PCDO      -   Provincial Coconut Development Officer (PCA)
PKO       -   Palm Kernel Oil
RDB       -   Research and Development Branch (PCA)
SCFO      -   Small Coconut Farmers' Organization
SPD       -   Seed Production Department
UCAP      -   United Coconut Association of the Philippines
UCPB      -   United Coconut Planters Bank
UNICOM    -   United Coconut Oil Mills Inc.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:            Coconut smallholders and the
Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)
Loan Amount:              US$121.8 million.
Terms:                    Repayable in 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Proiect Obiectives:        These would be to: (a) launch a long-term program of
coconut replanting and productivity improvement,
supported by the necessary infrastructure and
strengthened technical and support services;
(b) increase the incomes of coconut smallholders by
improving coconut yields and copra quality; and
*c) boost foreign exchange earnings by ensuring an
increasing and reliable supply of higher quality
copra for processing and export. The proposed
project would constitute the first phase of the
20-year small coconut farms development program.
Proiect Description:       Over a five-year period the project woulds
(a) establish seedgardens, nurseries and other
infrastructure sufficient to sustain a long-term
program of replanting of 50,000 ha of senile palms,
p.a.; (b) replant 25,000 ha and support intercrop-
ping during the first three years of replanting;
(c) rehabilitate 348,000 ha of middle-aged palms and
support the development of 50,000 ha of immature
palms; (d) support a pilot copra quality improvement
program; and (e) provide for the institutional
strengthening of the Philippines Coconut Authority
(PCA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:               The project would improve the productivity and
incomes of the impoverished smallholder subsector,
increase exports and re-establish confidence among
end-users in the future supply of better quality
coconut-ti'sed products from the Philippines. The
main technical risks of the project concern possible
poor site selection, typhoon damage and inadequate
continued use of inputs by smallholders. Very
conservative yield assumptions have therefore been
adopted and strict criteria for recipient selection
have been devised. The long-term coconut develop-
ment program depends on the willingness of GOP
eventually to restore self-financing arrangements.
Project benefits should improve the climate for the
necessary action, and GOP would be asked to prepare
a long-term financing plan by the fourth year of the
project and implement the plan before project
completion. Finally, there is a possibility that
peace and order conditions may inhibit project
activities in certain locations, but as this is a
national program, sufficient flexibility exists to
avoid such areas.
Estimated Costs
Local     Foreign      Total
--------USS milliop'-------
Replanting                          13.8         6.7       20.5
Rehabilitation                      28.3        40.0       68.3
Nutrient Support                     8.5        10.5       19.0
Copra Quality Improvement            5.7         1.7        7.4
Research                             3.3         1.4        4.7
Extension & Training                 4.0         1.3        5.3
Institutional Strengthening          2.3         5.8        8.1
Total Baseline Costs             65.9       67.4       133.3
Physical Contingencies               3.7         6.3       10.0
Price Contingencies                 15.9        17.4       33.3
Total Proiect Costs /a           85.5        91.1      176.6
Financing Plan
Farmers                             21.9         -         21.9
PCA/GOP                             31.6         -         31.6
ODA                                  -           1.3        1.3
Bank                                32.0        89.8      121.8
Total                             85.5        91.1      17C.6
/a Including duties and taxes of US$12.5 million.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements lb
Baik FY       FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
____--_-_----------(USS million)  --------------
Annual         9.8    14.3    17.4    23.1    29.5    22.2       5.5
Cumulative     9.8    24.1    41.5    64.6    94.1   116.3   121.8
Economic Rate of Return: 402
Mapt IBRD No. 21986R
lb Project start-up is planned for September 1990, corresponding to the first
quarter of FY91. The project would be complete on September 30, 1995, and
the Loan would close on June 30, 1996, at the end of FY96, with final
disbursements processed in early FY97.



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary             .      .............. .            i
I. AGRICULTURE IN THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY .......................    1
Sectoral Performance   .   ... . . .... ....                     1
Policy Environment .           ..     ...............    2
Development Issues ....... ........                               2
Government Objectives and Strategy ............................    3
Bank Sector Assistance Strategy ...............................  4
II. THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR .........................................   5 
Overview .    .....................................................    5
Agro-Technical Characteristics              ..                    5
Cropping Patterns and Tenurial Arrangements ...................  7
Coconut Products    .      ..... ............................ .  8
Processing .................................... ..............   8
M-arlceting ..................................................... *.....    9
Coconut Sector Institutions ...................................   10
Financing ...................................... 0.................... 12
Future Prospects ....... .................................. .    12
III. THE PROJECT. ... ....... . . . . . ..               ..15
Project Origin and Preparation.                                 15
Project Objectives and Summary Description.                     15
Detailed Features    ..      ....... . ...... .      .17
Establishment of Seedgardens and Nurseries............         17
Replanting    .      ........ . ......    18
Intercropping.t.   r ... ........... . .....        .         19
Rehabilitation of Low-Bearing and Immature Palms               19
Copra Quality Improvement ................                     21
Institutional Strengthening of P CA       .      .22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the
Philippines in June/July 1989, comprising Messrs. D. Meadows (Mission Leader,
Senior Tree Crops Specialist), S. Husain (Senior Economist), A. Chupak
(Senior Financial Analyst) and A. Juanengo (Consultant, Processing
Specialist).



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............. ............... .        24
Project Costs .........      .......................... .   24
Financing ....... .............................................    25
Procurement   .     ..... . ......      .     .    .... ......... .   26
Disbursement ......... . .....      . .        ...  .............. .   27
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting ............................. .   28
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT           .. .        .      ......... .   30
Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) ............................    30
Farmer Enrollment and Supervision ............    34
Monitoring and Evaluation .......       ......... ....... .   34
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..................... ..........    35
Production, Market Prospects and Prices ..................... **   35
Project Benefits .......... ...                            ....   37
Financial Analysis ...............................   .........    37
Economic Anal7sis ...............    .........................     40
Environment Imv4act ............................................   41
Tmpact on Women. .  .  ........ ....................  42
Risks ....     ...                     ..........                  42
VII, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ................ .                    44
ANNEXES
ANNEX l:  Project Costs and   Disbursements ....................   46
Table 1.1:   Summary Accounts Costs Sunmmary ..............   46
Table 1.2a:  Project Components by Year
Including Contingencies .....................   47
Table 1.2bs  Project Components by Year                ..    48
Table 1.3:   Summary Accounts by Year,
Including Contingencies .....................   49
Table 1.4:   Financing Plan     .. .....            ....... . S    50
Table 1.5:   Disbursement Schedule by Categories ...........   51
Table 1.6:   Disbursement Schedule by FY/Quarters ..........   52
ANNEX 2:  Project Yields and Production .......................    53
Table 2.1:   Copra Yield Profile               .    ........   53
Table 2.2:   Net Incremental Production ....................    54
ANNEX 3:  Economic Analysis...     ................. .... ..... ... S   55
Table 3.1:   Computation of Economic Farugate Prices .......    55
Table 3.2:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...   .........        56



- vi -
ANNEX 4s  History of Coconut Legislation and Institutions....    57
ANNEX 5: Auditing and Reporting Requirements    .......   . 60
ANNEX 6:  Project Implementation Schedule ............... ......   62
ANNEX 7s  Project Supervision Plan ............................    63
ANNEX 8:  Documents in the Project Plan ......................    64
CHARTS
CHART lt Philippine Coconut Authority ................. .. ...   . 65
CHART 2: PCA Field Operations Branch ....................        66
MAP
IBRD No. 21986R



PHILIPPINES
SHALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  AGRICULTURE IN THE PHILIPPINE .     XY
Sectoral Performance
1.1      The agricultural sector (including livestock, fisheries and forestry)
continues to play a key role in the Philippine economy, generating about 271
of GDP and 252 of exports in 1988, directly employing about 10.1 million
Filipinos (482 of the total employed labor force), and providing many of the
natural resources and much of the domestic demand on which the industrial and
service sectors depend. Agriculture's share of GDP has remained essentially
unchanged since 1970.   The  crops  subsector  accounted  for 602 of the gross
value added in agriculture in 1988, followed by livestock and poultry (21Z).
fisheries (17Z), and forestry (21). Over 80Z of the country's cropped area of
12 million ha is occupied by rice, corn (3.5 m ha each) and coconuts (about
3.3 m ha).   Coconut  products  constitute  the principal agricultural export,
followed by prawns, fish, forest products, banana, pineapple and sugar.
1.2      From 1970 to the  beginning  of  the  economic recession in 1982, the
agricultural sector grew by over 42 p.a. in real terms (5Z p.a. if the
declining  forestry  subsector   is   excluded),   but   thereafter  the  rate
decelerated.   Cood  sectoral  performance  in  the  1970s  was facilitated by
historically high  international  prices  for  agricultural commodities, which
encouraged expansion of total area under cultivation and the use of modern
technology, most notably in the staple food, rice, but also in other
commodities such as bananas, pineapples, poultry and acquaculture products. A
large  irrigation  investment  program  doubled  the  irrigated  area.   This,
together with the adoption of high-yielding varieties and increased fertilizer
application, boosted average paddy yields from 1.6 tons/ha in 1971/72 to 2.4
tonslha in 1982183.    These  positive  factors  outweighed  the policy biases
against agriculture in the 1970s, which included an overvalued exchange rate,
export taxes, price controls, trading bans, monopolies in the coconut and
sugar subsectors, and heavy protection for industrial goods.
1.3      Sectoral performance declined for  several  years  after 1982, due to
low  international  commodity  prices,  severe   droughts  in  1983  and  1987
(resulting in negative agricultural growth rates of 2Z and 12, respectively),
contraction of credit to the sector, and a shortage of foreign exchange which
adversely affected the import of agricultural inputs. Beginning in 1988, the
sector has begun to show strong recovery, with a 3.42 growth in 1988 and about
4.3Z growth in the first half of 1989. This growth is accounted for mainly by
the performance of "other crops' (e.g., banana, mango, pineapple, coffee,
root-crops and vegetables),  poultry  and  fisheries.    Rapid  growth of non-
traditional crops has resulted in significant agricultural diversification:
although occupying only about 141 of the cultivated land, they now account for
about 45? of total gross value added in the crops subsector.



-2-
Policy Environment
1.4      The removal of policy biases  against agriculture (para. 1.2) started
as a response to the economic crisis in 1982. Measures taken included the
opening up of the import trade in animal feeds and wheat; the phasing out of
price controls on rice, poultry, eggs and pork; deregulation of interest rates
and  gradual  elimination  of   subsidies   on   agricultural  credit.    More
significantly, the successive devaluations of the peso from 1982 onwards
helped  offset  the  decline   in   international   market  prices  of  export
commodities.   After  assuming  power  in  February  1986,  the new Government
further reduced distortions and institutional constraints unfavorable to
agriculture, with the objective of increasing farm profitability. Important
actions included lifting of the copra export ban; abolition of export taxes;
dismantling of some of the monopolistic controls over the coconut and sugar
subsectors;  deregulation  of  the   desiccated   coconut  and  banana  export
industries; liberalization of urea and potash imports and distribution and
reduced tariff protection for locally-produced fertilizers; and exemption of
most agricultural inputs  from  taxes  and  customs  duties.   These measures,
coupled with the earlier ones, and a gradually improving international market
have created a more favorable environment for agricultural growth.
Development Issues
1.5      Although the record of  agricultural  growth and diversification over
the past two decades has been generally good (paras. 1.2-1.4), massive rural
poverty and low productivity    still  pose  major  challenges for the future.
Government estimates show that  the  incidence  of  poverty in the Philippines
increased from 49t in 1971 to 58Z in 1985s urban poverty increased from 37?
to 50?; rural poverty from 56? to 62Z.11 At present, although only 58? of the
population is rural, about 67Z of all poor families are in rural areas, and
rural incomes are only about 47? of average urban incomes.
1.6      Most poor farmers are involved  in  rice, corn or coconut production.
The growing number of the poor and the persistence of income inequality is a
result of three  strulctural  factors:    unequal asset ownership (particularly
land), a high population growth rate (2.41), and poor productivity growth.
The situation has been aggravated by the increasing scarcity of land and the
failure  of  the  economy  as   a   whole  to  provide  sufficient  employment
opportunities outside of agriculture.   Population pressure and limited arable
land have led to a rapid growth in the numbers of the landless and increased
migration to upland areas, where soil quality is poor and agricultural
activities often produce severe environmental degradation. Rapid advances in
technology have occurred in commodities developed by the large commercial
sector,  especially  bananas,   pineapples,   poultry   and  aquaculture,  and
significant yield increases have been obtained in rice cultivation, although
these are still low by Asian  standards.   However, the productivity levels of
corn, coconuts and sugarcane continue to be disappointing, due mainly to
shortages of advanced planting material, smallholders' lack of resources to
buy  improved  planting material   and  fertilizers,  tenurial  problems  and
increasing cultivation on marginal lands.
1/  The Philippines:  The  Challenge  of  Poverty,  The  'lorld Bank, Report
No. 7144 -Ps, October 17, 1988.



-3-
Government Obiectives and Strategy
1.7      The Government is seriously attempting  to  address the issues of low
agricultural productivity and  pervasive  rural  poverty.    The  basic aim of
agricultural  development,   as   defined   in   the  Philippines  Medium-Term
Development Plan (1988-1992), is to lay the foundation for equitable,
efficient and ecologically sustainable agricultural growth. The Government's
role  is  seen  primarily  as   one   of  creating  a  supportive  policy  and
institutional framework and providing the necessary incentives and investments
in such areas as infrastructure, research and technology, while encouraging
the private sector to propel the economic recovery in the countryside.
1.8      The most  well-publicized  initiative  of  the  present Government to
reduce rural poverty and income inequality has been the Comprehensive Agrarian
Reform Program (CARP), launched  in  1987.    The  CARP  covers all public and
private agricultural lands regardless of tenurial arrangements and commodities
produced and is, therefore, more far-reaching than the agrarian reform program
of 1972, which extended only to rice and corn lands. CARP would cover about
10.3 million ha and benefit some 3.9 million farmers and farm workers, and is
to be implemented in three ohases over a ten-year period. Some exemptions
have been allowed (e.g. for seed production units) and a 10-year deferment is
granted to private commercial farms devoted to livestock, poultry, swine
raising, aquaculture, orchards, vegetables, cut flowers, cocoa, coffee and
rubber. Through 1988, about 181,000 ha of rice and corn lands and about
22,000 ha of Government land previously leased to multinational corporations
had been distributed. Although progress is being made, major issues related
to institutional capabilities, land valuation, landowner opposition and
agricultural support systems for beneficiaries will have to be overcome if
CARP is to be effectively implemented as planned.
1.9      As noted earlier  (para.  1.4),  the  main  successes  to date of the
present  Government  have  been  in  the  area  of  policy  reform,  which has
considerably improved conditions for agricultural growth, increased producer
prices and reduced the costs of many inputs. Significant efforts have also
been initiated to reform the rural financial system, including: (a) the
elimination of various special (subsidized) official credit lines and the
merger of others into an effective, well-administered rediscounting facility
which has been successful in attracting more private cnmmercial credit to the
agricultural sector; (b) partial rehabilitation of the rural banking system,
which had nearly collapsed as a result of high arrearages on earlier
Government-directed credit programs in the 1970s, compounded by the financial
and economic crises of the mid-1980s; and (c) the expansion of credit
guarantee facilities which are also aimed at attracting commercial credit to
the agricultural sector.    Marketing  assistance to farmers is being provided
through the new Livelihood Enhancement for Agricultural Development Program
launched in May 1988, which relies on private initiative and resources, with
the Department of Agriculture (DA) acting as a broker to facilitate farmers'
access to financing,  management  expertise  and markets.   Finally, although
still in the early stages, the Government is also devoting increasing
attention to the  issues  of  conservation  of  natural resour.es and improved
environmental  management,   with   particular   attention  to  deforestation,
destruction of coistal fisheries resources, and erosion and related problems
in the uplands.



-4-
Bank Sector Assistance Strategy
1.10     The Bank attaches  high  priority  to  agricultural development, as a
means to support both economic growth and poverty alleviation in the
Philippines. Since 1964, the Bank has approved 40 loans and credits (US$1.4
billion) for investments in agriculture and rural development. Approximately
one-third of these projects were for irrigation development, and another one-
third for  rural  credit.    The  remainder  have  been  for  area-based rural
development projects, rural infrastructure, processing and storage, land
settlement, extension and research, smallholder forestry, watershed management
and erosionG control, and financing of agricultural inputs ur'er one policy-
based loan. Implementation of completed and ongoing Bank-financed projects
has generally been satisfactory, although some operations have experienced
delays because of local funding constraints, overly optimistic targets, design
changes after project start-up, peace and order problems, weak or poorly
coordinated multiple implementing agencies and time-consuming procurement
procedures. The proposed project would be the Bank's first direct lending for
the treecrops subsector  in  the  Philippines.    Other future Bank operations
over the next few years would continue to assist the irrigation subsector,
environment and natural resource management, rural finance, and poverty
alleviation through support for agrarian reform and improvement of key
sectoral institutions.



II. THE COCONUT SUBSECTOR
Overview
2.1      The coconut subsector accounts for over 252 of the cultivated area in
the Philippines, and provides incomes for at least one-fourth of the rural
families  and  a  significant  number   of  people  engaged  in  coconut-based
industries and trade in  urban  areas.    Coconut-based products are the third
largest contributor of foreign exchange, accounting for 101 of the total value
of merchandise exports and about 401 of the value of agricultural exports of
the  Philippines  in  1988.      Developments  within  the  coconut  subsector,
therefore, have important effects not only on the rural sector but also on the
economy as a whole.
2.2      Low productivity and lack of any long-term replanting program are the
principal issues facing the coconut industry in the Philippines today. With
average yields of 700-800 kg/ha (copra equivalent), coconuts have accounted
for only about 8-101 of gross value added in the crops subsector, although
they occupy  over  one-fourth  of  the  cultivated  area.    The  main factors
responsible for low productivity are the use of planting material of low
genetic potential and the virtual absence of fertilizer use on nutritionally
deficient coconut lands. A related problem has been the limnited progress to
date with intercropping (which usually affects the palms beneficially), due to
the prevailing tenurial arrangements on some coconut lands and the lack of
markets  for  potential  intercrops  in  many  locations.    Finally, improper
harvesting, drying and storage practices are responsible for the poor quality
of Philippine copra, which results in low oil extraction rates and higher
refining costs. Horeover, Philippines copra meal, which is a livestock feed,
is encountering increasingly stringent aflatoxin regulations in the EEC
market.
Agro-Technical Characteristics
2.3      Varieties.  Coconut  palms  may  be  classified  as  talls, dwarfs or
hybrids (usually crosses of dwarfs and  talls).   Prior to the introduction of
hybrids in 1976, all Philippine plantings were talls. At present, more than
98X of the total coconut area is still planted to talls. Talls generally
begin bearing about 7 years after planting, achieve full yield by year 12, and
senility  at  about  60  years.    Harvesting  is  done  throughout  the year,
theoretically at intervals of about 45 days, but more commonly every 2 to 3
months. The average annual yield per tree is about 30 nuts, although under
good  management  it  can  exceed  150  nuts.    Typically,  each  nut  yields
about 200 g of copra. A few named tall varieties (Bay Bay, Laguna, Tagnanan,
San Ramon, etc.) are recognized, but the vast majority of holdings were
planted from unselected seeds, which is a major reason for the generally low
yields. Poor management is an important contributing factor: only 1X of
coconut parcels receive fertilizer regularly, although this can more than
double copra yields (up to over 3 tons/ha from selected talls); planting
density is often suboptimal; and stands of unproductive, diseased or senile
palms are frequently not replanted.    The problem of senility is particularly
serious  in  the  traditional   coconut   producing  Southern  Tagalog  region
(including Quezon, Laguna and Cavite provinces), where nearly half the palms
were over 60 years old in 1979.   Nationwide, about one-third of the palms are



now thought to be over 60 years old, implying that 875,000 ha are due for
replanting.
2.4      The new hybrids introduced  since  1976  begin bearing at four years,
and reach full development by year 10. Their productive life span has not yet
been definitely established, but it is expected to be similar to that of
talls. Their yield potential is double that of talls, exceeding six tons/ha
under good management. The most common hybrid (PB121), popularly known as the
MAWA hybrid, is produced by crossing the Malayan Dwarf with the West African
Tall. MAWA has been found suitable for planting in about 502 of the coconut
areas of the Philippines, notably in Mindanao. Several other hybrids, mostly
bred by the Philippine Coconut Authority's (PCA's) Breeding and Genetics
Division, are under trial and some are better adapted than MAWA, particularly
to the drier environments of the Philippines.   In addition to better drought-
tolerance, some hybrids such as  PCA 15-1  produce larger nuts and have better
tolerance to Phytophora disease; others appear be more resistant to typhoons.
Hybrid breeding and development  is  a  dynamic  process, and suitable hybrids
have now  been  identified  for  almost  all  agroclimatic  conditions  in the
Philippines coconut areas.
2.5      Hybrid seed production is  a skilled horticultural activity requiring
careful  management  and  close  supervision.       The  seed  is  produced  by
artificially  pollinating  the  palms  selected  as  female  parents  (usually
dwarfs), which are grown in isolated  seedgardens.   During the 1970s, a large
seedgarden was created on the island of Bugsuk (South Palawan) with funds
derived from a levy on copra sales (para. 2.23). This seed garden was awarded
monopoly status and could potentially have supplied sufficient seed for 60,000
ha/per year. Consequently, only insignificant seed production facilities were
developed elsewhere in  the  country.    However,  a planned hybrid replanting
program in the early 1980s was never launched and, with the subsequent change
of Government, Bugsuk was abandoned and hybrid seed production is currently
very limited in the Philippines.    Reactivation  of the Bugsuk seed garden is
impractical at this stage, because the assets are frozen pending resolution of,
legal disputes with the former owner, and because the seed garden would now
need almost complete rehabilitation, the cost of which would not be justified
as the palms are too old for artificial pollination.
2.6      Pests and Diseases.  Talls and hybrids alike suffer from a few pests,
the most important being the rhinoceros beetle, rats and slug caterpillars.
Rhinoceros beetle breeds in decaying coconut wood and is the major pest in all
but two coconut regions.    Biological  controls  are  available, but the best
defense is avoidance of breeding sites, which increases the importance of the
commercial utilization of coconut wood.    Slug  caterpillars can likewise be
managed biologically. Control of rats is a matter of better farm management.
Cadang-cadang is the most serious disease, caused by a viroid which kills
300,000-500,000 palms per year in southeastern Luzon and parts of Samar, and
for which there is as yet no cure. This disease normally attacks palms older
than 25-30 years, so it may be a less serious problem for hybrids whose
productive life starts only four years after planting. Phytophora diseases
have become increasingly important, both infecting and spoiling nuts and
killing palms (bud rot).    It  has  become  an international problem on which
research resources are being concentrated.



2.7      Climate and Soils.  Coconuts  thrive in tropical monsoonal areas with
no more than 4.5 dry, months per year. Rainfall in most of the coconut areas
ranges from two to four meters annually, with the most even distribution
occurring in the southern and eastern regions of the country. Prolonged
droughts can seriously damage coconuts, particularly newly planted areas.
Typhoons regularly damage coconut stands in the Bicol and Eastern Visayas
regions, but in general, the benefit of the associated rainfall exceeds the
losses suffered by sites hit by the centers of the storms. However, the most
powerful typhoon in 40 years did severely damage coconuts over wide areas of
Bicol and the Northeastern Visayas region in 1987, where recovery of
production has been slow.
2.8      Coconuts perform best on well-drained  soils  of sandy or silty clay
loam, of at least 10 cm depth and no more than 18Z slope. However, they can
thrive  in most  soils,  including   sand,  provided  there  is  no  stagnant
waterlogging.   Coconut  yiel.ds  often  show  good  response  to  chlorine and
nitrogen, and, less frequently to potassium and magnesium. Soil nutrient
deficiencies  have  been  mapped  across   the  country,  so  that  fertilizer
requirements are broadly known. PCA has a foliar analysis laboratory and can
routinely test plant samples for assessing nutrient deficiencies.
Cropping Patterns and Tenurial Arrangements
2.9       In the Philippines, coconuts are  the  principal crop outside of the
irrigated areas, where rice predominates, although most coconut farmers also
grow other crops for subsistence and  cash.   The spacing and high leaf canopy
of coconuts permit intercropping, which is practiced on about 402 of all
coconut parcels.    Subsistence  intercrops  are  especially  important during
replanting. Annuals such as corn and peanuts and longer-term crops including
cacao, coffee and banana are grown under the coconut palms. Nearly one-fifth
of all coconut parcels have both annuals and perennials as intercrops,
illustrating the opportunity afforded by coconuts for intensification of land
use through "multistory' cropping.    Intercropping coconuts increases coconut
yields and can be very attractive where markets are assured.
2.10     According to the 1980  Agricultural  Census, there were approximately
825,000 coconut farms occupying some 3.0 million ha: about 492 of these farms
were smaller than 1 ha; 712 less than 2 ha; 912 less than 5 ha; and 98Z under
20 ha. Since the agrarian reform program (para. 1.8) provides for a retention
limit of 5 ha for the landowner and 3 ha fir each qualified child, it would
not affect over 902 of the farms, or about 752 of the coconut lands. The
tenurial status of coconut farms is quite complex: some 712 of farms (covering
about 602 of land) are reported to be owner-operated; 222 of farms (covering
252 of the area) are share-tenanted; and the other 72 of farms are partly
owned, lease tenanted  or  otherwise  managed.    Sharing arrangements for the
coconut crop vary widely from 50/50 to 90/10 in favor of the owners but annual
intercrops belong to  the  tenants.    In  the  case  of owner-operated farms,
caretakers are frequently hired, who live on the farms and receive a share of
the harvest, which means that a typical farm may actually provide income for
three families (owner, resident workers or caretakers, and laborers).



-8-
Coconut Products
2.11     Based on traditional  low-input  practices,  coconut  farming has few
backward linkages with input suppliers.    As  the  raw material for a host of
important processed products, however, coconuts have many important forward
linkages in the economy.   The  major  product  is coconut oil (CNO), which is
extracted from copra, the dried meat of the coconut. Oil may be refined and
consumed directly as cooking oil or processed further to produce chemicals
such as fatty acids, fatty alcohols, esters, glycerine, etc., which are the
raw   materials   for    soaps,    detergents,   lubricants,   cosmetics   and
pharmaceuticals. The Philippines has some 88 oil mills and two coconut oil
processing complexes. The latter process up to 95,000 tons of crude coconut
oil annually into chewicals,  mainly  for  export.    The second major coconut
product is desiccated coconut, which is the peeled white meat cut into small
shreds and dried under  rigid  hygienic  conditions.    The Philippines is the
world's largest producer of desiccated coconut, with 13 modern factories
manufacturing mainly for the US  market.    Copra cakes and meal, derived from
the residues cf oil extraction, are the third product. They are primarily
exported as animal feed, but are encountering difficulties in some markets due
to high aflatoxin levels.   A  fourth  product with potential is coconut shell
charcoal, used directly for fuel in smelting and as the raw material for the
local activated carbon industry.   Five companies in the Philippines currently
produce activated carbon mainly for export to Japan.
2.12     Many other  products  have  excellent  but  underexploited potential.
These include:    coconut  wood  (sold  primarily  for  lumber  and  now being
purchased at attractive prices by small-scale commercial saw millers in
increasing quantities; abundantly available when senile coconut palms are
felled for replanting); and coir fiber from coconut husk (which can be used
for producing carpet underlays, mattress and bristle fiber, car seats, etc.).
There is substantial scope for Government assistance in the technlcal and
commercial development of these and other non-traditional products. Finally.,
there is an increasing international market for both fresh young coconuts for'
drinking and ripe coconuts for eating.
Processing
2.13     In order to  retain  a  higher  proportion  of  the  value of coconut
products within the Philippines, the Government encouraged a rapid but
uncoordinated expansion of coconut processing plants during the 1970s. The
crushing capacity of coconut oil mills rose from 1.2 million tons in 1970 to
3.4 million tons in 1982, while desiccated coconut capacity rose from 112,000
tons to 156,000 tons, and activated carbon manufacture was introduced, with
capacity rising to 11,300  tons.    In  all three industries, overcapacity was
created, mostly on the basis of directed credit. The disastrous financial
consequences for oil mills, as well as the perceived need for greater
bargaining strength in the world market, led to the creation of United Coconut
Oil Mills, Inc. (UNICOM) in September 1979. UNICOM bought mills, mothballed
unnecessary ones and soon controlled directly or indirectly at least 672 of
the country's oil milling capacity and nearly all coconut oil exports.
Nonetheless, by 1982 capacity utilization was still only about 53Z for coconut
oil (despite a ban on copra export at the time), 872 for desiccated coconut,



-9-
and about 8O  for activated carbon.    Much of the equipment of the mothballed
mills  was  reportedly  cannibalized   for  replacement  of  poorly-maintained
equipment in operating mills, so the present extent of overcapacity is
reduced,  but  not  readily  quantifiable.    After  the  UNICOM  monopoly was
abolished by the present Government, some mothballed mills have been purchased
and returned to service by private companies and a new private mill is under
construction  in  General  Santos  City.    Two  coco-chemical plants  now in
operation fully meet local demand, and any further investment must be
carefully justified on the basic of export requirements.
2.14     The most intractable problem  of  the  oil  milling industry has been
poor copra quality. Copra bound for oil mills commonly has a moisture content
of 10-202 (much above the optimum), is sometimes scorched, discolored,
frequently rubbery, deteriorating from mold and insect attack and contaminated
with dirt and gravel. The result is that Philippine coconut oil is of low
quality and sells at a discount of about 2Z in the world market; further, the
mills suffer from low oil extraction rates and high machinery operating and
maintenance costs. The persistence of these problems stems from the lack of
any  price  incentive  to  producers  for  supplying  high-quality  copra.   A
moisture-based price scale does exist but is largely misapplied and, in any
case, does little more than compensate for loss of water weight during drying.
No mill can offer a true quality premium unless it is assured of enough high
quality copra to justify separate stock piling, milling and oil and meal
storage. As not enough farmers in a single mill catchment area have the
necessary drying facilities to produce the required quantity of high quality
copra, the mills have no incentive to pay a premium for it. This vicious
cycle costs the industry an estimated US$52 million gross annually, in terms
of lower prices for oil, lower oil recovery, higher copra storage losses, and
higher mill operating  and maintenance  costs.    The  problem of quality has
recently come to a head with the introduction by the EEC of stricter limits on
the level of aflatoxin contamination of copra meal imported as a livestock
feed. Aflatoxin is produced by a fungus, Aspergilus flavus, which develops on
moist copra and can be controlled only by rapid and adequate drying and good
storage of copra. The importance of overcoming this problem rapidly has been
recognized by PCA, as the closure of key international markets to Philippines
coconut meal would severely reduce farm-gate copra prices.
Marketing
2.15     World CNO prices, which are  rapidly reflected at farmgate, fluctuate
with the general movement of the prices of all vegetable oils and fats (see
Chapter VI). However, as a specialized lauric oil with a firm but finite
demand, CNO can command a substantial premium or suffer a modest discount in
relation to other oils, depending on the supply position. Thus, wide price
fluctuations occur, largely in response to the Philippine supply position,
which from year to year is mostly controlled by the weather. Drought
depresses production in the following year, while good rainfall, which is
frequently associated with cyclonic disturbances, enhances the next year's
production. The rare severe typhoon can cause sufficient damage to affect
total output. Coconut production has shown a five-year cycle, with a two to
three year peak followed by a trough of similar duration. Maximum production
of 2.6-2.7 million tons was recorded in 1976-78 and 1986-87. Troughs are
usually around 2 million tons with the lowest recently recorded output being



- 10 -
1.4 million tons in 1984. The wide price and volume fluctuations affect farm
incomes and the demand for consumer goods in rural areas.
2.16     Between the coconut  farmer  and  the  oil  miller or exporter, copra
usually goes through three or more marketing intermediaries. Most coconut
farmers maintain long-standing relationships with local merchants who act as
primary copra buyers, but also provide informal credit and sell consumer goods
to  their  copra  suppliers.    These  are  deep-rooted  economic  and  social
relationships, which have resisted attempts to supplant them by national or
regional marketing  agencies.    Additional  tiers  of  copra  buyers exist at
barangay, town and city  levels.    These  buyers accumulate copra into larger
lots for transport, warehousing, and eventual sale to the ultimate buyers of
copra, which are large oil mills in exit ports, small domestic oil mills, and
the port-level export warehouses. A network of copra and coconut oil brokers
and agents operates throughout the industry, linking buyers and sellers
locally and with foreign markets.    Competition  for copra is keen among both
exporters and oil millers, and the world market for processed copra products
is also very competitive. Since more specialized down-stream products have
limited individual markets, Philippine exporters have not yet been very
successful in penetrating  them.    Under  the  present Government, individual
mills and independent traders have been freely exporting CNO and copra. In
1987 there were 15 exporters of copra and 28 exporters (mostly millers) of
CNO. Invariably the millers also export most of their production of copra
meal. The traditional multitiered structure of buyers and traders receives a
substantial share of the average millgate price of copra. Export taxes and
levies have been abolished and the only fee is P 30/ton for PCA documentation.
Coconut Sector Institutions
2.17     Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA).    Over the years, the Government
has tried several approaches to fostering a strong and viable coconut
industry. Since 1916, when a Coconut Products Board was created by Public Act
2598 to encourage the improvement of coconut products, numerous laws and
regulations have been enacted (Annex 4), culminating in the creation of ttie
Philippine Coconut Authority under Presidential Decree 232 in June 1973. PCA
is an autonomous public corporation attached to the Department of Agriculture
(DA). Its Board of Directors comprises seven members, including a Chairman,
who are all appointees of the President.   Day-to-day management of PCA is the
responsibility of an Administrator, supported by five Deputy Administrators,
each of whom oversees a branch or major office. PCA's programs are executed
by eight Regional Offices, each under a Regional Administrator. Within the
Regions, Provincial Coconut Development Officers (PCDO) are assigned to each
of the 63 coconut growing provinces and manage the activities of the Municipal
Coconut Development Officers (MCDO).
2.18     A  Coconut  Extension  Training   Center  (CETC)  in  Davao  provides
residential and training accommodations for 125 students. PCA's Research and
Development Branch (RDB) is responsible for developing the technology on which
to base improvements in coconut production.   RDB's activities are carried out
by three PCA research centers in Davao (agronomy and crop protection) and
Zamboanga (breeding and coconut wood utilization), both in Mindanao, and Albay
(cadang-cadang disease and tissue culture) in Luzon. RDB is also responsible



- 11 -
for the management of a leaf analysis laboratory located in Manila, which
provides the recommendations for the type and quantity of fertilizers to be
applied. Most industrial coconut research activities are undertaken by the
Industrial Technology Development Institute, universities and the private
sector, often under contracts with the Industrial Research and Market
Development Branch (IRMDB), but RDB also executes some farm level processing
research directly. IRDB performs principally regulatory functions, including
the operation of a product standards laboratory for quality testing and
inspection of products for export, and analyzes and prepares forecasts of
domestic and international demand.
2.19     Although previously authorized to collect substantial levies on copra
sales (para 2.23), PCA now collects only a statutory fee of P 30 per metric
ton of copra, which provides the bulk of its annual income of around P 85
million. In addition, PCA has been spending the equivalent of about P 80 -
100 million annually, which it has been drawing from its diminishing reserves.
PCA has adapted to this tight financial situation by cutting back its staff,
particularly those assigned to Headquarters, from 1,530 to 900, ar.d by
reducing other operating expenses.    Direct  contributions were received from
the national budget for the first time in 1989, and this will continue in
1990. While current staff are generally well motivated and quite competent,
significant increases in the number of field staff and a considerable
investment in training, as well as some internal reorganization, would be
necessary to enable the PCA to implement a major development program.
2.20     Coconut  Farmers'  Organizations.   Most   coconut   farmers  in  the
Philippines are members of either the Coconut Producers' Federation (COCOFED)
or a Small Coconut Farmers' Organization  (SCFO).       COCOFED is the older of
the two. Its membership peaked in the early 1980s at over 900,000 coconut
farmers grouped in 992 municipal chapters which, in turn, elected the officers
of provincial chapters and a 15-person national Board of Directors. COCOFED
was financed largely from coconut levy funds, and supported chapter-level
development programs, scholarships and life insurance schemes for coconut,
producers' families. It also set up the Coconut Marketing Corporation, which'
operated some 200 buying stations. The activities of COCOFED slowed down with
the suspension of the coconut levy and both institutions further declined
after their assets were sequestered by the Government in 1986. At that time,
PCA adopted a policy to encourage a more participatory form of organization
based at the barangay level.    In  contrast  to COCOFED, the SCFOs, which now
number some 896 in 63 coconut producing provinces, are reportedly less
controlled by larger farmers and vested interest groups. PCA's extension
service interfaces with small farmers mainly through the accredited SCFO's.
SCFOs are also encouraged to undertake comunal livelihood and other income
supplementing activities.
2.21     United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB).    UCPB  was acquired in 1975 in
the name of the coconut farmers out of the proceeds of the cocoxut levy funds,
with the declared objective of setting up a credit institution which could
meet coconut farmers' financing needs and also provide credit to the
processing industry.   UCPB's  operations  have  grown  rapidly  and it is now
classified as a universal bank, providing a wide range of banking services
through some 63 branches, as well as through association with ten rural banks.
UCPB's capital base has been increased and it has acquired a controlling share



- 12 -
of stock in the Philippines' largest food and beverage industrial corporatton
(San Miguel Corporat. on).   Until  recently,  however,  UCPB has provided very
little production credit to  small  farmers.    Resolution of the ownership of
UCPB, and other levy-acquired assets, is now before the Supreme Court.
2.22     Others.  While  PCA  is  responsible  for  the  implementation of the
Government's coconut farms development program, the DA also provides some
related support services, particularly  for  intercropping.   Two research and
development agencies also have close complementary linkages with PCA: the
Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry, and Resources Research and
Development,  a  government  agency  under   the  Department  of  Science  and
Technology; and the Philippine Coconut Research and Development Foundation, a
private agency originally  funded  from  the  levy.    Both fund some research
activities on coconuts and other crops, professorial chairs and scholarships,
and occasional in-house  research.    The  United  Coconut  Association of the
Philippines (UCAP) is a federation of the main coconut industry associations
and entities, including PCA.   UCAP maintains  a small secretariat, a subject
library and publishes comprehensive  statistics,   and is generally recognized
as the authoritative representative of the industry as a whole.
Financing
2.23     For most of the last  two  decades,  much of the official support for
the coconut industry has been self-financed by way of levies on the sale of
copra. Starting with a trivial levy of P 5.5 per ton in 1971 -- to generate a
Coconut Investment Fund (administered by COCOFED) -- collections were raised
through the 1970s to fund coconut development (e.g., for price stabilization
in the early 1970s; the acquisition of UCPB in 1975 (para. 2.21); the
establishment of the Bugsuk hybrid seed garden, para. 2.5, etc.). Under the
latest provisions, the levy was specifically intended to support coconut
replanting.    Farmers  contributed  an  aggregate  of  about  US$380  per  ha
(equivalent to about US$1,500 per average farm family, most of whom are among
the poorest of the rural poor in the Philippines). PCA received some of the
funds collected, and its share was sufficient to enable it to expand staff;
construct a number of office and research buildings, and accumulate a reserve
which permitted it to maintain operations on a reduced scale after the levy
was terminated. However, the majority of the funds collected were largely
misappropriated, and individual farmers have thus far received almost no
return from their  contributions.    The  political  passions  aroused by this
scandal are still strong and, at least in the short-term, limit the
Government's ability to fund the proposed small farmer coconut development
program (paras. 2.2i 2.26, Chapter III) through new taxes or levies.
Future Prospects
2.24     The Philippines now accounts  for  about  45Z  of total world coconut
production and 65-70Z of total world exports of CNO and copra. World imports
of CNO are projected to increase at about 0.7S through the year 2000. Because
of its technical properties, CNO presently sells at a premium of US$40-50/ton
over palm kernel oil (PKO), its nearest substitute in the world market, and
this premium is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. Domestic
demand for coconut products in the Philippines is also projected to expand at
about 2-3Z p.a. The projected world price for CNO for the year 2000 (in 1988



- 13 -
constant terms) is US$516/ton, which is considerably above the estimated
average cost of production of US$250-300/ton in the Philippines. Although the
demand prospects are reasonably good (paras. 6.3-6.4), the supply side is at
risk and Philippines' production will likely decrease in the 1990s and later
if no Government intervention occurs, for several reasons.
(a) A significant expansion of cultivated area is not feasible because
of the increasing scarcity of land (para 1.6).
(b) The proportion of senile coconut palms is becoming excessive:
although the current age profile is not known with certainty, a
1979 survey showed that about 20Z of the coconut palms were senile
(over 60 years old) and very little planting has taken place since
then. Even if farmers replanted on their own, most of this would
be  done  with  the   readily  avaUlable  low  potential  planting
materials, which would contribute to decreasing yields.
(c) Much of the coconut area close to major urban centers in Luzon has
been replaced over the past decade with higher-value crops, and
this trend is likely to continue where markets are good.
(d) Because of lack of fertilizer use, nutritional deficiency on
coconwut lands is becoming progressively worse, with consequent
adverse effects on yields.
A recently published Strategic Study of the Philippine Coconut Industry%,
produced  by  eminent  local   consultants,   under  a  Steering  Committee
comprising the Chairman of XICPB, the Secretary of Agriculture and the
Chairman of PCA, estimates that production will decline by 22 p.a. over the
next 20 years. This would result in the absence of an exportable surplus
in the first decade of the next century -- a prospect which has begun
seriously to worry end-users.   The  study's  findings are at variance with
earlier IEC projections based on internationally available statistics,
which are derived from the extrapolation of old data and overstate
spontaneous new planting since 1983.
2.25     Given the reasonably good  forecasts  of domestic and world demand
for coconut products on the one hand, and the prospect of decreasing
production on the other, the Government has adopted a strategy to
revitalize  the   coconut   subsector   and   prevent   it   from  lapsing,
unnecessarily,  into  sunset   industry   status.       A  long-term  coconut
productivity and copra quality improvement program would be initiated under
the  proposed  project  (see  Chapter  III).    The- program  would involve
replanting of senile coconut palms with higher-quality planting materials,
improving the nutritional status of lands under mature coconut through
greater  fertilizer  use,  encouraging   intercropping  on  coconut  lands,
introducing improved drying techniques to improve copra quality and reduce
aflatoxin levels, and strengthening coconut research and extension, and the
overall institutional capacity of the PCA.
2.26     While  the  Government  recognizes  that  farmers  throughout  the
country will continue to grow coconuts for a long time to come, public
resources for coconut productivity improvement would be increasingly



- 14 -
concentrated in areas which are favorable for coconut growing and less
prone to typhoon damage. This strategy would ensure productivity growth as
well as a more  stable  production  over  the  longer  term.   For the most
typhoon-prone areas, the Government would encourage diversification away
from  coconuts  into  more  viable  enterprises.    For  these  reasons,  a
replanting target of 50,000 ha per year has been set, which eventually
implies an advanced industry of 2.5 million ha -- that is, about a 25Z
reduction of the 3.3 million ha currently devoted to coconuts. Because of
the need to develop seed production capacity and the necessary support
staff and logistics, the annual replanting rate would be much lower in the
initial years, not reaching the desired level until about 1997. This would
be partially compensated by investments in rehabilitation and nutrient
support to existing trees, which would enhance production and farm incomes
until the full replanting program is in place.
Table 2.1: LONG TERM COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, 1990-2009 a/
(ha)
Annual         Area Under         Area Under
Replanting     Rehabilitation   Nutrient Support
1990             5,000            20,000             50,000
1991             3,500            80,000             50,000
1992             3,500           168,000             50,000
1993             4,000           268,000             47,000
1994             9,000           328,000             27,900
1995            24,000           288,000               -
1996            44,000           200,000
1997            50,000           100,000
1998            50,000            80,000
1999            50,000            20,000
2000 - 2009     50,000              _
a/  The proposed project would support the first phase of the
long-term program, during 1990 - 1994.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin and Preparation
3.1      The need for  a  long-term  development  program  for the Philippines
coconut sector has been recognized for many years. However, the predominantly
impoverished smallholders who make up the backbone of the industry have been
unable to invest in  yield-improving  measures  on  their  own.   The very few
large-scale producers who have invested in new technologies now face being
split up under the land reform program (para. 1.8) and their total area is, in
any case, relatively insignificant.    Consequently,  the proportion of senile
palms gradually increased and coconut production, once buoyed by extensive new
plantings, is now declining to the detriment of both farmers' incomes and the
country's balance of trade.   A  national coconut replanting program announced
in the 1970s was never implemented (para. 2.23). With FAO/CP assistance, PCA
then prepared a coconut development project which the Bank appraised in 1984,
but the Government subsequently  decided  not  to proceed with that operation,
partly because of unwillingness to reconcile the accounts of the levy
proceeds. In 1987, following the change of Government, contacts were renewed
with the Bank concerning possible support for a long-term smallholder
development program, and project preparation was initiated in 1988. The
experience gained by PCA staff and much of the documentation from the 1984
exercise was utilized in preparing the proposed project. The Preparation
Report for this project was compiled and edited by local consultants, PCA
staff having produced the draft text and cata, and the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA) having assisted with the technical review and
economic analysis. The project was appraised in June/July 1989, and loan
negotiations took place in April 1990.
Proiect Obiectives and Summary Description
3.2      The project would have the following objectives:
(a) to launch a long-term program of coconut development and productivity
improvement,   supported   by   the   necessary   infrastructure  and
strengthened technical and support services;
(b) to increase the incomes of small-scale coconut farmers by improving
coconut yields and copra quality; and
(c) to boost foreign exchange earnings by ensuring an increasing and
reliable supply of higher quality copra for processing and the export
market.
3.3      The project would constitute  the  first  phase  of a long-term small
coconut farms development program which, over the next twenty years, would
result in the replanting of some 743,000 ha of senile coconuts and the
rehabilitation of about 418,000 ha of low-bearing palms (paras. 2.25-2.26).
The project would develop and apply improved technologies, establish the
operating procedures, and prepare the institutional and financial bases for
such a program. The rationale for the project, and the Bank's involvement in



- 16 -
it, is the urgent need to reverse the lapse into senility and declining
productivity of the Philippines' coconut production base, which endangers the
country's international competitiveness, undermines end-user confidence and
ultimately threatens the Philippines' future share of tIe world market. The
urgency stems from the immensity of the task, and the long lead-time needed to
obtain a substantial impact.
3.4      The  proposed  project would  take  advantage  of  a  combination of
promising  opportunities:    (a) the   Philippines  already  possesses  excess
capacity in oil-milling, refining and coconut desiccating (para. 2.13), which
would allow considerable value to be added to incremental copra production at
very little additional capital cost; (b) world market prospects for copra
products are good (para. 2.24); (c) the technical basis for achieving much
higher yields is well established; and (d) the existing organizational
framework of PCA can easily be adapted to handle a large coconut development
program, with some reorganization and institutional strengthening. From the
standpoint  of  poverty   alleviation,   hybrid  coconuts,  particularly  when
associated with intercrops, offer one of the few widely replicable means of
intensifying land use by smallholders.    As  indicated in para. 3.1, the Bank
has been interested for some time in assisting a program aimed at benefitting
small coconut farmers, who are among the poorest in the country. Although
other Bank-financed projects in the Philippines have served the rural poor,
the proposed operation would mark the beginning of a possible pipeline of
operations to improve the living standards of many people who have, to date,
remained by and large outside the scope of most official development
assistance.
3.5      Over a five-year period, the proposed project would comprise:
(a) Coconut farm development:
Mi)  establishment of  seedgardens  and  nurseries  to  produce high-
yielding  hybrid   coconut   seedlings   sufficient,  when  full
production is achieved, to sustain a replanting program of about
50,000 halyear;
(ii) replanting of overaged palms with high-yielding hybrid coconut
seedlings on about 16,400 ha, and re:'anting of palms damaged by
typhoons  and  other   natural   disasters  with  selected  tall
seedlings on abou.tt 8,600 ha;
(iii) provision of inputs and technical assistance to support annual
intercropping during the first three years of replanting;
(iv) provision of inputs to rehabilitate middle-aged palms on 348,000
ha, and to support the development of young palms planted on
about 50,000 ha under previous PCA development schemes;
(b)  Conra quality improvement:
(i) equipping of an existing laboratory in Manila for aflatoxin
assay, and establishment of a second regional copra quality
control laboratory in Cebu;



- 17 -
(ii) support for a pilot effort to introduce hot-air copra dryers to
smallholders in 2-3 major mill catchment areas; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance and training;
(c) Institutional strengthening of PCA:
(i) expansion of central, regional and provincial PCA office
staff; replacement vehicles; office, communications and other
minor equipment; construction and equipping of three regional
offices and L'novation of three existing regional offices;
support   fo-   incremental   operating   expenditures;   and
technical asi:3tance, training and research studies;
(ii)  completion of facilities for PCA's Coconut Extension Training
Center; training of staff trainers and extension workers; and
supporting materials for training and extension activities;
and
(iii)  upgrading of PCA's coconut research program througa agronomic
consultancy services, vehicles, equipment and materials for
PCA's Research and Development Branch and three regional
research centers, and support for contract research on
coconut processing and end uses.
Detailed Features
3.6      Estsblishment of Seedgardens and Nurseries
(a) Seedgardens. PCA's strategy for the future of the coconut
industry calls for a  sustained  arntual  replanting  rate  of 50,000 ha per
year, which should be  attained  as  rapidly  as  possible.   Other than in
exceptional circumstances caused by typhoon damage, where lack of planting
material may necessitate the use of local talls, replanting is economically
justified only if hybrids of proven suitability for specific locations are
used. Due to the lack of hybrid production facilities (para. 2.5), it
would be necessary to establish about 1,000 ha net of hybrid seedgardens to
meet the demand.   Five  seedgardens  of  approximately 250 ha each (216 ha
net) would be established to produce sufficient hybrid seednuts to sustain
the program. One of them would be established by PCA under the project and
assurances were obtained during negotiations that PCA would formally obtain
the use of a suitable site for not less than 20 years, no later than March
31, 1991 (para. 7.1(a)).    The  other  four  seedgardens (in Mindanao, the
Visayas and Luzon) would be established and managed by private agricultural
enterprises under contracts with PCA.  These enterprises would benefit from
"pioneer industry" status  under  the  Bureau  of  Investments' incentives
scheme and several enterprises have indicated strong interest. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that contracts for hybrid seed production
would be entered  into  only with  agricultural  enterprises with adequate                n
financial, technical and managerial resources, as agreed with the Bank
(para. 7.1(b)). It would be a condition of effectiveness that arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank had been made for the establishment of at least



- 18 -
one seedgarden. PCA would specify the type of hybrids to be produced,
supply parental seed as required, and maintain technical supervision of
these seedgarden operations. Financing for the establishment of the private
seed gardens would be raised by the agricultural corporations, and is
therefore not included in the  project  costs.    In  the case of PCA's own
seedgarden, the project would finance site clearing, fencing and road
construction, civil works, acquisition of planting material, equipment,
supplies, vehicles, and incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
The first hybrid seed would become available from 36 to 40 months after
field planting of the female parents (pollen from external sources would be
necessary for the first two years production). Thereafter seed production
would increase rapidly, effectively reaching full production by the seventh
year after planting. The first three seedgardens would be established in
Year 1 and the remaining two in Year 2. On this basis they would provide
sufficient seed in Year 4 to replant 2,045 ha, rising in Year 5 to 6,680
ha.
(b)  Nurseries.    Initially  seedlings  for  planting on the farm
would be raised in temporary nurseries established by participating small
coconut farmers' organizations (SCFOs), under the direction and control of
PCA field staff, with the project providing fencing materials, tools and
supplies.  The two-stage  nursery  system would  be followed with selected
germinated seed being normally sown in polybags.  As the replanting program
grows in magnitude, PCA would  establish  its own nurseries with irrigation
facilities, fences and essential civil  works, as required in each province
where replanting is to take place.    In the case of talls, seed equivalent
to 200X of the required number of seedlings would be set in to seed beds to
iK'llow for 45Z cullings and 102 replacements. For hybrids, 240 seeds would
be set for  each  ha  to  be  replanted.    Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that PCA would present to the Bank annually, for approval, its
nursery development plan for the following year, with specific reference to
the need for any field nurseries and the circumstances justifying their use
(para. 7.1(c)).
3.7      Replanting.  Some replanting would  be possible during the project
period, since reasonable hybrid seed could be obtained from existing
sources for about 6,600 ha of replanting and the new seedgardens would
start to produce sufficient seed to supply 8,800 ha during the fourth and
fifth years (para. 3.6(a)).    It  is  also  assumed that typhoon disaster-
related replanting of about 9,600 ha of local talls would be necessary
during the first three years (principally in Bicol (para 2.7)). Talls
would be planted at 100 palms per ha (10 m squares) and the hybrids at
143/ha (9 m triangles). The phasing of coconut replanting activities under
the project is shown in Table 3.1, and the sequence under the long-term
coconut development program is shown in Table 2.1.
3.8.     Existing palms would be  felled  and, wherever possible, the stems
sold for lumber production. PCA would assist farmers to find buyers when
necessary, and any residual stems would be burned or stacked and treated
with green muscardine fungus (Metarhizium anisopliae) to prevent rhinoceros
beetle infestation. PCA would supervise land preparation by the farmer.
Intercropping with annuals would be encouraged for the first three years,
after  which  a  cover  crop  would  be  established  (para.  3.9).   Where



- 19 -
intercropping is not feasible, cover crops would be sown immediately.
Close supervision would be the responsibility of a PCA-managed task force
during the planting year, supplemented by enhanced extension input in
succeeding years. Fertilizer would be provided for the first seven years,
as most of the soils under senile stands have very impoverished surface
strata which cannot adequately sustain the rapid growth and early bearing
of young hybrid palms.
Table 3.1: PHASING OF COCONUT REPLANTING
(ha)
Replanting
Project year                  with Hybrids         with Talls           Total
1                                1,000                4,000              5,000
2                                  500                3,000              3,500
3                                  900                2,600              3,500
4                                4,000                                   4,000
5                                9,000                                   9,000
Total                      15,400                9,600            25,000
3.9      Intercropping.  Farmers in the replanting program would be encouraged
to cultivate annual intercrops for the first three years of replanting, to
supplement farm income during the immature period before the new coconut palms
come into production.  Cover crops  would be sown together with the intercrops
in the third year to avert the risk of the weed grass lalang (Imperata
cylindrica).  In many instances  farmers  would  also be able to harvest cover
crop seed for sale.    PCA-managed  field  staff would  advise the farmers on
suitable crops.   Farmers  who  are  able  to  intercrop  would receive seeds,
fertilizers and other inputs to support the first crop, up to a value of
P 2,000 each, and all farmers would receive cover crop seed at the appropriate
time.
3.10     Rehabilitation of Low-Bearing and Immature Palms
(a)  Low-bearing Mature  Palms.    The  current decline in coconut
productivity over the past years  is  partly attributable to the increasing
proportion of senile palms in the Philippines, but the poor nutrient status
of the palms of bearing  age  is  also  a   asjor factor, which is caused by
increasing impoverishment of soil nutrients through continuous cropping and
an almost total absence of fertilizer use. A nationwide PCA palm nutrition
survey has identified the principal nutrient deficiencies in each area and
appropriate fertilizer recommendations  are  available.    Where these have
been applied on a demonstration basis, yield increases on the order of 1252
have been achieved over  four  years  of  application.   Under the proposed



- 20 -
project, appropriate fertilizers would be provided for a period of four
years to mature palms on a total of 348,000 ha, as shown in Table 3.2:
Table 3.2: INITTL& APPLICATION OF FERTILIZER
Project Year                                      ha
1                                       20,000
2                                       60,000
3                                       88,000
4                                      100,000
5                                       80,000
Total                                   348,000
In most cases, the application would be 1.5 kg per palm per year of
ammonium sulphate and 2 kg  of  potassium  chloride.   Common salt would be
substituted for KCL in areas where potash is not deficient and where there
would be no adverse effects on intercrops or on soils. Fertilizers would
be applied only after qualified farmers had removed any shrubs from their
plantation and ring-weeded the palms, and this would be carried out under
the close supervision of the MCDO on a communal basis, with all recipient
farmers in an SCFO assisting each other in turn. On average, there are
about 30-35 nuts per tree, each nut yielding 0.2 kg of copra or 700 kg per
ha (at 100 trees per ha). It is estimated that these yields would increase
to about 1,470 kg/ha over four years, which would provide adequate funds
and incentive for farmers to continue applying fertilizers and would boost
coconut production by 267,000 tons by 1998.
(b) Nutrient Support for Immature Palms. Approximately 50,000
ha, primarily hybrids, have been planted during the past 10 years under
various small PCA sponsored schemes, most of which were short-lived as a
result of  financial  constraints.    The  premature  termination  of these
programs eliminated the planned support for the young palms and, having
received little or no fertilizer after field planting, their growth and
development have been  very  poor.    In  order  to  restoLe these palms to
something close to their original potential, fertilizer would be provided
under the proposed project on the same basis as for rehabilitation of low-
bearing mature palms (para. 3.10(a)). It is intended that the applications
should be for a maximum of four years, but would terminate for palms over
12 years old. It is estimated that yield increments would range, depending
on age and planting material, from nearly 600 kg to over 2 tons of copra
per ha (Annex 2, Table 2.1), implying an additional 63.000 tons per year by
1996.
3.11     Taken together, the  two  rehabilitation  programs for low-bearing
and immature palms would generate a fairly rapid increase of almost 330,000
tons p.a. of copra production from the 398,000 ha involved (Annex 2,
Table 2.2). They would thus help to arrest the decline in total production
during the initial years of the long-term program, as the rate of
replanting builds to the desired level (paras. 2.25 - 2.26).



- 21 -
3.12     Copra Quality Improvement.   The  Philippines produces a very poor
quality of copra which is frequently contaminated with aflatoxin, caused by
the inadequate drying methods practiced by most smallholders (para. 2.14).
This situation is estimated to cost the country about US$52 million per
year in reduced export prices and physical losses. In the future, however,
there is also a risk that the Philippines may lose access to its European
markets for copra meal, as various countries are in the process of
tightening standards concerning acceptable aflatoxin levels. This could
deprive the economy of a further US$75 million p.a. However, in spite of
the growing necessity to improve copra quality, the objective is not easily
achieved. Any piece-meal approach based on improving quality on a limited
number of holdings would  not  work,  as  the quantity of superior material
would be *lost' among the mass of poor copra and would, therefore, have no
additional trade value.   Rather,  this  situation  can be overcome only by
changing drying practices in sufficiently large areas so that commercially
valuable parcels of higher quality copra would result. This would involve
concentrating resources in the catchments of individual oil mills or core
areas, and negotiating appropriate arrangements with those mills for the
payment of quality premia.
3.13     Under the  project,  PCA  would  follow  a  two-staged approach to
raising copra  quality.    Initially,  supported  by  co-financing from the
United Kingdom, PCA would create the necessary laboratory facilities in
Manila to analyze aflatoxin levels and, supported by a mycotoxicologist and
an associate professional officer, would develop standard methodologies and
sampling techniques. 'When these are fully developed, a second laboratory
would be established in Cebu to service the Visayas and Mindanao Regions.
An oilseed processing expert would assist PCA in conducting surveys of
aflatoxin incidence and copra drying practices in several major mill
catchments.   The  technical    experts  would  be  supported by short-term
consultants  and  back-stopping   by   the  Overseas  Development  Research
Institute (ODNRI) in the  U.K.    Technical assistance totalling 96.5 staff
months, together with analytical  equipment  and vehicles, would be covered
through the grant cofinancing.
3.14     In a second stage, after  the  research  work and surveys had been
completed, the project would support the introduction of hot air copra
dryers on a pilot basis in 2-3 mill catchments, based on a detailed plan
prepared by PCA and the technical assistance specialists. The plan would
specify current aflatoxin levels in each catchment. and the targets to be
achieved. Selected catchments would be those in which a majority of SCFOs,
representing at least 802 of the area supplying an individual mill, are
willing to participate. In addition, the mills involved would have to be
prepared to pay quality premia sufficient to enable participating SCFOs to
recover the cost of the driers and to reward farmers for the additional
inputs involved. Manufactured components of the driers would be provided
on a reimbursable basis to the SCFOs, which would construct sheds, provide
necessary local materials and assemble the driers under PCA supervision.
Steering committees composed of representatives of PCA, the farmers, the
oil mills and traders would be set up within each catchment to agree on
proceedures, including quality price differentials, and small project
managerial units would  be  established  and  equipped.   Presentation of a



- 22 -
suitable plan would be a condition of disbursement of loan funds for the
copra quality improvement component of the project (para. 7.3).
3.15     Institutional Strengthening of PCA.    The project would assist in
strengthening PCA's capacity to undertake the proposed long-term coconut
development program.    Following  suspension  of  the  coconut levy (para.
2.23). over the last few years PCA's income has declined dramatically and
it has had to reduce staff and operating expenses and curtail capital
expenditures. Moreover, although PCA's organizational structure may have
been adequate for the kinds and level of activities for which it has thus
far been responsible, several changes in the distribution of functions and
management relationships are needed as the agency poises to implement a
much more comprehensive, long-term  program.    The project would therefore
support: (a) a planned reorganization of PCA, with particular attention to
coconut extension and research activities; (b) an increase in and upgrading
of PCA staff, mainly at the provincial and municipal levels; (c) selective
renovation/expansion of physical facilities; and (d) technical assistance
and training.
3.16     Details concerning  the  reorganization  of  PCA  and the staffing
requirements of the project and the longer-term coconut development program
are provided in Chapter V.   With  regard to physical facilities, three PCA
regional office buildings would be constructed to replace unsuitable rented
buildings and three existing offices would be renovated. New provincial
offices to be constructed would be located on sites suitable for nurseries,
which would be provided with fencing, irrigation and a storage building.
The PCA seedgarden would also be established with roads, fencing and
office, residential, laboratory and storage facilities, and would be fully
equipped. Some investment in vehicles would be needed to restore mobility
to PCA field staff and others for whom transport is essential, as many of
PCA's existing vehicles are no  longer  serviceable.   In total, 72 cars, 8
light trucks and about 1,700 motorcycles would be required. The latter
would be mainly for extenslonists, who would purchase them through loans,,
repayable over five years through salary deductions. The Coconut Extension'
Training Center (CETC) would be renovated and equipped to allow for full-
scale utilization in  staff  training.    Communications equipment would be
renewed as necessary at regional offices and research centers, and provided
for the first time at provincial offices to allow direct linkage to the
regional offices. Office equipment, including support for the new project
management unit at PCA Headquarters and some computer facilities, would be
provided and some of the scientific and farm equipment at the research
centers would be replaced or rehabilitated, as most of it is now 10-14
years old.
3.17     In addition to the 96.5 months of ODA-cofinanced support for copra
quality improvement (para. 3.13), provision would be made for 12 months
p.a. of  internationally  recruited  consultant  services  and  studies.  A
comprehensive training program would be developed to upgrade the knowledge
and performance of PCA staff.    To  allow for wastage and promotion, about
1,800 extensionists would be trained by  the CETC, which would also monitor
the  performance  of  trainees  and  provide  regular  in-service follow-up
training for them and other  PCA  staff.    In addition, provision would be
made for: (a) overseas training, in the form of study tours to ASEAN



- 23 -
countries with effective replanting or quality control programs for a total
of 50 staff and short-term training courses for a further five; and (b) 10
local MSc courses, five local Ph.D courses in Research Management, Soil
Science, Entomology and Bio-Technology (2) and about 50 local short-term
training                                                              courses.



- 24 -
IV. PROJE-T COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
4.1      Total project costs over  the  five-year implementation period are
estimated at US$176.6 million, including a foreign exchange component of
US$91.1 million (522). The base costs were estimated using prices obtained
during appraisal in July 1989 and adjusted to levels expected to prevail at
the time of project start up in September 1990. Physical contingencies
equivalent to 10Z were added to the base costs for civil works, farm inputs
and operating costs; and equivalent to 7? for equipment, vehicles and spare
parts. Price contingencies were calculated on base costs plus physical
contingencies and compounded annually as follow: (a) for all local costs,
92 for 1989-91 and 82 for 1992-95;2/ (b) for all foreign costs 7.22 for
1989, and 4.4S for 1990-95.    Total  contingencies are equivalent to about
322 of base costs, or 252 of the total project cost in terms of US dollars.
Project costs are summarized in Table 4.1 and Annex 1, and are further
detailed in the Working Papers.   They include only incremental investments
and operating costs, above the present level of PCA expenditures.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST /a
Local    Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total   X
------(P million)------   ---- (US$ million)----
Replanting                303.6    147.4    451.0    13.8    6.7   20.5   15.4
Rehabilitation            622.6    880.0  1,502.6    28.3   40.0   68.3   51.2
Nutrient Support          187.0    231.0    418.0       8.5   10.5   19.0   14.3
Copra Improvement         125.4      37.4    162.8      5.7    1.7    7.4    5.5
Research                   72.6      30.8    103.4      3.3    1.4    4.7    3.5
Extension & Training       88.0      28.6    116.6      4.0    1.3    5.3    4.0
Institutional
Strengthening             50.6    127.6    178.2      2.3    5.8    8.1    6.1
Total Baseline Costs   1,449.2  1,483.4  2,932.6    65.9   67.4  133.3  100.0
Physical contingencies    81.2    140.0    222.2        3.7    6.3   10.0    7.5
Price contingencies       584.8    639.9  1,224.7    15.9   17.4   33.3   25.0
Total Project Costs    2,115.3  2,263.2  4,378.5    85.5   91.1  176.6  132.5
la  Including duties and taxes of US$12.5 million.
2/ Price contingencies, initially calculated in local terms, have been
converted to USS using exchange rates that correct the difference
between the expected rate of domestic inflation and the expected trend
'ld~ ' 



- 25 -
Financing
4.2      The proposed Bank loan of US$121.8 million represents 692 of total
project costs (74Z of total project costs excluding duties and taxes), and
would finance 99Z of the foreign exchange cost and 37Z of local costs.
Bank financing of some local costs is justified by the relatively low
income level of the Philippines and strong poverty focus of the project.
The balance of US$54.8 million would be funded as follows: US$1.3 million
by a grant from the U.K. ODA (1Z of total project cost); US$31.6 million by
PCA and/or the Government (18Z of tntal project cost) and US$21.9 million
by the project farmers in the form of hired labor and local materials
(12.5Z). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PCA and/or GOP
would include in their annual recurrent and capital budgets adequate funds
to  finance  project  activities,   including  both  incremental  and  non-
incremental costs, and that such funds would be released for use in a
timely manner (para. 7.1(d)).   The  proposed financing plan is outlined in
Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Local    Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign  Total       Z
-(---.P million) -------      -----(USS million)-----
Farmers la          547.0       -       547.0      21.9     -        21.9     12.4
PCAIGOP             786.2       -       786.2      31.6     -        31.6     17.9
ODA                   -        30.7      30.7       -       1.3       1.3      0.7
Bank                782.1   2,232.5   3,014.6      32.0    89.8    121.8      69.0,
Total      2,115.3   2,263.2   4,378.5       85.5    91.1    176.6    100.0
/a   Farmers would also contribute incremental  family labor valued at US$33.0
million equivalent.



- 26 -
Procurement
4.3      Procurement arrangements are suimmarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(USS million)
Procurement Method                   Total
Project Element                  ICB       LCB      Other       N.A.          Cost
Civil Works                      2.7       0.8        0.7        -             4.2
(2.5)    (0.7)      (0.6)       -            (3.8)
Equipment and                    2.8       0.5        0.8        -             4.1
Spare Parts                   (2.6)    (0.3)       (0.6)      -             (3.5)
Vehicles and                     5.5       0.3        0.5        -             6.3
Spare Parts                   (4.7)    (0.2)       (0.2)      -             (5.1)
Copra Improvement                -         -          5.5        -             5.5
-        -         (4.9)       -            (4.9)
Research                         -         -          0.3        -             0.3
-        -         (0.3)       -            (0.3)
Extension and Training           -         -          5.5        -             5.5
-        -         (5.5)       -            (5.5)
Technical Assistance             -         -          1.4       -              1.4
-        -         (0.4)       -            (0.4)
Farm Inputs                     96.8       -          3.1       -             99.9
(87.4)     -         (2.5)       -           (89.9)
Farmers' Hired Labor             -         -        21.9        -             21.9
Incremental Operating            -         -          2.5      25.0          27.5
Costs                          -         -         (1.9)     (6.5)          (8.4)
Total                          107.8       1.6       42.2      25.0         176.6
(97.2)    (1.2)    (16.9)       (6.5)       (i21.1)
a/  Figures in parenthesis represent share to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan.
4.4      Whenever  possible,  items  to  be  procured  would  be  grouped into
purchases of at least US$200,000 each, likely to result in about 33 contracts
(10 contracts for vehicles, 10 for equipment and 13 for fertilizers). All



- 27 -
such contracts exceeding US$200,000 for vehicles, equipment and farm input and
US$1.0 million equivalent for civil works (two contracts) would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines. In evaluating ICB tenders, a margin of 152 of the
c.i.f. bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed
for preference for domestic manufacturers.
4.5      Contracts from US$50,000 to  US$1.0  million  for  civil works and to
US$200,000 equivalent for vehicles, equipment and farm input would be procured
through  Local  Competitive  Bidding   (LCB)  in  accordance  with  procedures
acceptable to the Bank, in an estimated aggregate amount of about US$1.3
millio'n, representing  approximately  10  to  15  contracts.    Procurement of
technical assistance services amounting to US$1.4 million would be carried out
in accordance  with  Bank  guidelines  for  the  selection  and recruitment of
consultants. About US$1.3 million of co-financed consultants, equipment and
vehicles would be procured in accordance with ODA procurement procedures.
Procurement of items valued at less than US$50,000 would be through prudent
shopping, based on a comparison of at least three price quotations, and would
not exceed: US$0.7 million for civil works; US$1.3 million for equipment,
vehicles and spare parts; US$0.3 million for research and materials; US$5.5
million for extension and training; US$3.1 million for fertilizer and other
farm inputs; and US$2.5 million for incremental operating services, including
repair and maintenance of vehicles and equipment servicing the scattered PCA
operating units. The remaining incremental operating expenses amounting to
US$25.0 million are not applicable for procurement.  Farmers' contributio   i.s
the form of hired labor, amounting to US$20.9 million, would be proL.r.ei
through normal commercial practices.
4.6      All bidding packages  above  US$200,000  for  vehicles, equipment and
farm input and US$1.0 million equivalent for civil works would be subject to
prior review by the Bank, representing 852 of Bank-financed items and
including about two contracts for civil works and 33 contract packages for
vehicles, equipment and fertilizers.    Other Bank-financed contracts would be,
subject to selective post award review.    PCA would be encouraged to use the
Bank's sample bid documents for procurement of goods, commodities and civil
works.
Disbursement
4.7      The proposed loan of US$121.8  million would be disbursed over seven
years, during Bank FY91-97.   The  disbursement  schedule provided in Annex 1,
Table 1.6 is shorter than the historical disbursement profile of 10 years for
Bank-financed agricultural projects in the Philippines. The proposed seven-
year disbursement period appears realistic, however, since much of the
expenditure involves bulk procurement of vehicles, equipment and fertilizers,
which is unlikely to be seriously delayed. PCA, the institution responsible
for implementing the project, is firmly in place and has acquired experience
with many of the individual operations to be supported under the project.
Disbursement for contracts with a value over US$200,000 equivalent would be
fully  documented.    All   other  disbursements  for  eligible  expenditures,
including disbursements for incremental operating costs, would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).



- 28 -
Table 4.4: SUMMARY DISBURSKMENT SCHEDULE
Category                           Amount of the
Loan Allocated             I of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works                         3,400,000            9OZ
(2)  Vehicles and                  4,600,000            100I   of foreign expendi-
spare parts                                        tures, 100X of local
expenditurr-s (ex-factory
cost) and 802 of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)  Equipment and                 3,200,000            1002 of foreign expendi-
spare parts                                        tures, 1002 of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 852 of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(4)  Consultants' services,        5,300,000            1002
training, studies and
extension
(5)  Research                        300,000            1002
(6)  Copra driers                  4,400,000            902
(7)  Farm inputs                  80,900,000            902
(8)  Incremental operating
costs
(a)                           2,000,000            602
(b)                           2,100,000            452
(c)                           1,700,000            302
(d)                           1,800,000            252
(9)  Unallocated                  12,100,000
TOTAL                  121,800,000



- 29 -
4.8      Special Account.    Assurances  were  obtained  at negotiations thats
(a) GOP would establish a Special Account for the project into which the Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$5.0 million, equivalent to 2-3 months'
average withdrawal from the loan account, to be used to prefinance goods and
services reimbursable under the loan; and (b) the Special Account would be
operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.1(e)).
The Special Account would be managed by PCA and should any disbursement made
from this account be found to be ineligible for financing under the project,
GOP would deposit the corresponding amount into the Special Account prior to
submissiou of any further replenishment application.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
4.9      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PCA would keep separate
accounts of expenditure made under the project, irrespective of the sources of
funds, and that all accounts related to the project would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.1(f)). The auditors'
report and statements of accounts would be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the end of each PCA fiscal year. The audit report would include,
inter alia, a separate opinion that funds disbursed against SOEs had been used
for the purpose for which they were provided. Assurances were also obtained
that PCA would submit regularly quarterly progress reports to the Bank, and
would prepare a completion report on project implementation and achievements
within six months of the final loan disbursement (para 7.1(g)). Details of
auditing and reporting requirements are given in Annex 5.



- 30 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA)
5.1      Responsibility for project coordination and implementation would rest
with PCA (paras.  2.17-2.19).    While  PCA's  current  structure is basically
sound, some reorganization and rationalization of functions and authority
would be necessary to enable the entity to carry out its responsibilities
under the project. The main concerns relate to PCA's research and extension
activities, and their linkage with  field  operations.   In addition, owing to
its tight financial position over the past few years (para. 2.23), PCA has
reduced its staff in absolute terms and been unable to provide adequate
training programs, and renovate and replace its physical facilities and
equipment. The proposed project would therefore support various institutional
strengthening activities, to prepare PCA not only to carry out the project
itself but also to develop the necessary capability to implement the longer-
term coconut development program.    Specifically,  the project would support:
(a) a planned reorganization of PCA, with particular attention to coconut
extension and research; (b) an increase in anid upgrading of PCA staff, mainly
at the provincial and municipal levels; (c) selective renovationiexpansion of
physical facilities; and (d) technical assistance and training. Items (c) and
(d)  have  been  discussed  in  paras.   3.16-3.17.    With  regard  to  PCA's
reorganization and staffing (items (a) and (b)), the proposed changes have
been thoroughly reviewed and agreed in principle during project preparation
and appraisal.    Assurances  were  obtained  during  negotiations that formal
approval of PCA's reorganization would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 7.2 (ii)), and that the new organization structure would be implemented
no later than September 30, 1990 (para. 7.1 (n)). The principles underlying
the  planned  reorganization,  reflected   in   Chart   1,  and  the  staffing
implications ure summarized below.
5.2      Extension.  PCA's extension staff  0MCDOs) are insufficient in number
for the needs of the project and would be augmented by DA field staff-
Agricultural Production Technicians  (ATP).    ATPs  would  be assigned to the
project under the terms of a Memorandum of Agreement between DA and PCA, dated
March i3, 1990, and  a  Supplemental  Agreement  thereto  dated April 4, 1990,
which provide that ATPs selected for assignment would successfully complete
training at CETC and would be under the operational control of PCA. The
projects extension field staff (MCDOs and ATPs) and their PCA supervisors and
managers  would  be  the  critical   driving  force  of  the  projectlprogram,
responsible  for  encouraging  the  formation   of  SCFOs  and  guiding  their
development; promoting the objectives of the coconut development program;
identifying qualified participants; initiating requisitions for the necessary
inputs; ensuring that farmers have undertaken the prescribed preparatory
activities; supervising delivery of the planting materials and fertilizers and
ensuring that they are properly planted or applied at the designated sites;
monitoring production responses; and providing advice on all aspects of
coconut  cultivation,  including  processing.       Presently,  the  PCA  Deputy
Administrator of the Agricultural Research and Development Branch (ARDB) is
responsible for both agricultural development (extension) and research, but
has no in-line subordinate units to supervise these two major activities, nor
exercises formal control over the Regional Administrators who are responsible
for executing field development programs in the eight regions and report
directly to PCA's Chai    .        fu  e,  P  's Fi d                       (



- 31 -
would take over the extension activities of the zurrent ARDB and would asstme
direct control of the Regional  Offices.  It would also assume responsibility
for the Coconut Extension Training Center (CETC), to ensure that field staff
training is fully coordlinated with the needs of the program.
5.3      Project/program   implementation   would    pose   heavy   management
responsibilities on FOB; for this reason, the Deputy Administrator would be
supported by a strengthened Operations Planning and Management Department
(OPD), located at the Head Office.   The  manager of OPD would ensure that the
field program is carried out according to approved plans; that appropriate
technical standards are maintained; that the necessary logistical and human
resources are available so that development targets can be met; and that
adequate statistical data is recorded at each phase of field operations. OPD
would have four  Divisions  to  meet  these  requirements:   Field Operations,
Logistic Services, Operations and Statistics, and Seedgarden/Seed Contracts.
Given the importance of OPD, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
position of Department Head would be filled at all times with an officer whose
qualihications and experience are agreed with the  Bank (para. 7.1 (h)).   The
Seed Supply Division (SSD) would be responsible for the establishment and
management of the new PCA seed garden and for technical supervision of the
four private seedgardens which would supply hybrid seed to PCA. For these
purposes, PCA would require about 25 additional regular staff and 310 skilled
and unskilled workers and security guards, thse latter to be provided by
contract. In consultation with PCA's research staff, SSD would determine the
necessary crossing programs at least 18 months in advance of need, so that the
seedgardens could program their pollinations accordingly and ensure that an
adequate amount of suitable seed is available for each region at the required
time.
5.4      The Manager of the CETC would  report to the Deputy Administrator of
FOB. The rapid expansion of the extension force (prra. 5.6), as well as the
requirements of in-service training and pre-promotion courses, would place a
major burden on the CETC, whose staff would have to be increased by 12
persons.   Three  of  these  new  staff would  be  specialists in development
communications or agricultural journelism, to assist in strengthening the
technology packaging functions of  CETC.    All catering for resident students
would be contracted out.   Pre-service  courses  for MCDOs would last 10 weeks
and those for ATPs, six weeks.    There  would also be in-service training for
current MCDOs, PCDOs  and  subject  matter  specialists.    The training staff
itself would be supported in the development of its skills through periods of
field work with MCDOs, increased exposure to research center work, courses at
local universities, and visits to foreign agricultural extension and coconut
research agencies. Local universities and PCA's existing in-house expertise
would  be  tapped  as  technical  resources  for  the  training  program.   An
experienced training consultant would be retained for limited periods over the
life of the project to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of CETC's
activities (para. 3.17).
5.5      PCA's eight Regional Offices, each  under the direction of a Regional
Administrator, are entirely responsible for all PCA activities at field level.
By far their major function is the supervision of extension staff (PCDOs, ATPs
and MCD0s) and their tasks at SCFO and farm level. Regulatory functions and



- 32 -
copra improvement activities are generally minor components of their work
programs.    Nevertheless,  as   indicated   in  para.  5.2  above,  reporting
relationships hitherto bypassed the Deputy Administrator responsible for
agricultural development and research, which sometimes resulted in the
adoption of technically inappropriate or inadequate agriculturc'l practices at
field level. Under the project, charges would be made to ensure that the
Regional Administrators report to the Deputy Administrator FOB on all
agricultural matters.
5.6      The success of the  project would  rest  largely  on the quality and
motivation of the extension staff. The current staff of 595 MCDOs would need
to be augmented over the five years of the project to about 1,950, as follows:
Table 5.1:  NET EXTENSION STAFF REQUIREEENTS BY PROJECT YEAR
Project Year         Existing Staff     New Staff      Total MCDOs
1                   595               --              595
2                   595               148             743
3                   743               479           1,222
4                 1,222               443           1,665
5                 1,665               285           1,953
To allow for turnover, about 1,800 extension personnel would be sought to meet
the requirement for 1,355 incremental extension staff. As the Government is
reluctant to increase the already large number of agricultural extensionists
in the country, many of whom are perceived to be unde. -employed, the majority
of new extension staff for the project would be made available to PCA by means
of assignment of ATPs from the Department of Agriculture. During negotiations
the Government furnished to the Ban2k a satisfactory plan for the assignment to
PCA from DA of sufficient numbers of competent extensionists to enable PCA to
carry out its obligations under the project (para. 5.2). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: (a) the Government would take all necessary
action throughout the life of the project to ensure the aforementioned
assignment of extensionists to PCA; (b) new extension staff, from whatever
source, would be selected on the basis of having successfully completed six
weeks of field immersion experience and passing the pre-service training
course at CETC; and Ic) in the event that insufficient numbers of suitable
ATPs were assigned to PCA, the Government would make provision for the
external recruitment of MCDOs  (para.  7.1  (i)).   Besides the aforementioned
extension staff, posts for additional supervising CDOs would be required, some
clerical staff would be assigned to the Provincial Offices to provide
technical and clerical support, and some staff strengthening would be needed
in the eight Regional Offices. These incremental staff would be contracted by
PCA.
5.7      Agricultural Research.   PCA's  Research Management Department (RMD)
would be responsible for both agricultural and farm level processing research.
The Manager would ensure that all research is directed to solving pressing
problems in the coconut subsector, that research quality standards are kept
high, and that the research program receives the necessary financial, material



- 33 -
and human resources in a timely manner. Most agricultural research is located
in the three regional Research Centers, but a number of genetic and agronomic
studies are located at other test  sites.   Project support for research would
allow these efforts to be expanded and higher levels of technology to be
employed. Staffing is not seen as a constraint, and therefore no major
changes are envisaged in the organization or staffing of the three Research
Centers. However, training opportunities provided under the project and the
availability of technical assistance to address specific problems would serve
to improve the selection of research projects and expedite the completion of
research tasks. Processing research would concentrate on the improvement of
copra quality and the better utilization of coconut by-products, particularly
coconut wood and coconut shells.   These tasks would entail the appointment of
some additional technical staff to supervise research work subcontracted to
universities and institutes on specific priority issues.
5.8      Copra Quality Improvement.  The  technical assistance team engaged in
the analytic technique for aflatoxin determination (paras. 3.13-3.14) would
work in the Quality Control laboratory of the Industrial Research and Market
Development Branch. The field team surveying aflatoxin incidence and studying
current copra making methods would work closely with the respective regional
offices and the FOB staff.   They would  assist in the selection of the pilot
areas for the introduction of hot-air dryers. Special arrangements would be
made, involving collaboration between PCA, COCOFED, SCFOs, UCAP and the local
oil millers, and an interagency management unit would be created in each pilot
area. The technical assistance field team would advise the management units
for the duration of their assignments.
5.9      Accounting  and  Procurement   Staff.        The  volume  of  financial
transactions handled by PCA would increase dramatically under the project, and
the Financial Management and Services Department would therefore need five
additional accounting staff at the Head Office and one extra bookkeeper in
each regional office.
5.10     Central Project Operations  Unit  (CPOU).    The Administrator of PCA
would serve as Project Director.   A  Central Project Operations Unit would be
established in the Office of the Administrator, with a staff of four. The
Unit would have no direct implementation responsibility, which would reside in
PCA's Branches and Regional Offices, but it would be responsible for project
coordination and monitoring and would report to the Project Director on all
aspects of project progress. The CPOU would also be responsible for project
procurement and for keeping PCA's management and Board fully abreast of
project progress and alerted to emerging problems. The head of the CPOU would
be responsible for inspection of field operations, and would report to PCA's
Administrator on any problems which might not be identified through the
routine monitoring system (para. 5.13). Designation of the incumbent was made
prior to negotiatiot,3. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, no
later than June 30 of each year, the CPOU would furnish to the Bank for
comment the proposed annual project area coverage targets and related plans
and budget for the succeeding year (para. 7.1 (1)). The CPOU would also send
the Bank quarterly summaries  of  project  performance,  and prepare a Project
Completion Report for submission to the Bank within six months of final loan
disbursement (para. 7.1 (g)). Establishment of the Unit would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para 7.2 (iii)), and assurances were obtained during



- 34 -
negotiations that the post of the head of CPOU would be filled at all times by
an incumbent with training and experience agreed with the Bank (para. 7.1 (h).
Farmer Enrollment and Supervision
5.11     At field level implementation would be in association with recognized
farmers' organizations, whose smallholder members would be beneficiaries of
the project, and with cooperating oil mills for the copra quality improvement
component. PCA has established the following selection criteria for farmers
to  participate  as  beneficiaries  under  the  project:    farmers  must  be:
(a) Filipino citizens; (b) members of a recognized farmers' organization;
(c) owning or operating less than the maximum farm sizes permitted by CARP,
and in the no case more than 10 ha; (d) past contributors or heirs of
contributors to the coconut levies; (e) willing to contribute such inputs as
labor, transport of seedlings and/or fertilizer; and (f) willing to undertake
project  related  work  on  their  farms.    Assurances  were  obtained during
negotiations that selection criteria would be agreeable to the Bank (para. 7.1
(i)).
5.12     In the interest of equity  and  of  benefitting the maximum number of
farmers, project-supported replanting would be limited to a maximum of 1 ha,
rehabilitation to 3 ha and nutrient support to 4 ha per farmer. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations (para. 7.1(k)). Extension staff
would be provided with pro forma application documents which, when completed,
would clearly identify those farmers who qualify for project assistance. They
would ensure that in all cases the necessary preparatory work is undertaken by
the farmers and that seedlings and fertilizers are put on the approved sites.
To facilitate supervision by the extension staff, benefitting farmers would
assist each other in these  operations.    This mutual cooperation conforms to
Filipino tradition (Cbayanihan') and would further strengthen the spirit of
the SCFOs.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13     Ensuring  effective   monitoring   and   evaluation   would   be  the
responsibility  of  the  Operations  and   Statistics  Division  of  FOB,  but
monitoring functions would be a routine responsibility of each operational
unit. Basic operational monitoring requirements are already being built into
FOB's implementing guidelines for the various field activities. Managers and
key staff would be trained and equipped to undertake effective monitoiing to
ensure successful accomplishment of their units' tasks.       Their aim would be
to maintain an accurate picture of not only physical progress, but also of the
quality of work and the determinants of success and failure, as inputs into
the planning of successive stages of the coconut development program. On a
regular basis, CPOU would aggregate this data to report to the Administrator,
the Board and the Bank (para. 5.10).



- 35 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Production, Market Prospects and Prices
6.1      Production.  Full incremental  production  from coconut palms replanted
or rehabilitated under the project would be at about 405,000 tons copra
equivalent per year around year 2004 (Annex 2, Table 2.2!. Limited quantities
of annual intercrops, such as corn and mung bean, would also be produced.
Felled coconut palms on about 25,000 ha of replanted area would supply about
175 million  board  feet  of  sawn  timber.    The  incremental  project coconut
production would be about 182 of the average production of 2.2 million tons
copra equivalent in the  last  five  years.    If the current average production
level were to continue in the future, the total production, including project
increzrautal output, would be about 2.6 million tons copra equivalent by the year
2000. However, due to decreasing yields (para. 2.24), average production from
the non-project areas is likely to decline by at least 300,000 tons copra
equivalent by the year 2000.   Therefore, despite contribution from the project,
the total Philippine production in the year 2000 will be less than the
2.4 million tons copra equivalent assumed by the Bank's International Economics
Department (IEC) for its  current  price  projections.    In  the absence of the
project initiated development program, CNO exports would decrease by 452 by the
year 2,000.
6.2      International and Domestic Market  Prospects.    World demand for copra
(oil equivalent) is projected by the IEC  to increase at about 12 p.a. and world
imports at 0.7Z  p.a.  through  the  year  2000.    Domestic  demand for coconut
products in the Philippines is also projected to grow at 2-32 p.a. The combined
international and domestic demand would justify at least a 252 increase by the
year 2000 over the last five years' average production of 2.2 million tons. The
project incremental production, which would be much lower than the additional
demand, is expected to be easily absorbed by the market.
6.3      Exports, which account for  over  802  of  the total Philippine coconut
output, go primarily to the United States (over 402) and the Netherlands (over
25Z). Coconut oil (CNO) is the principal export (about 800,000 tons worth
US$410 million in 1988).   Coconut  oil  demand  in these importing countries is
about evenly divided between edible and inedible uses, although demand for
edible uses has grown relatively slowly because it is price-elastic and affected
by the supply of several lower-priced substitutes, notably soybean oil and palm
oil. Nonetheless, coconut oil is used in many products, including cooking oil,
simulated dairy products (coffee whiteners, whipped toppings, filled and
imitation milk, non-dairy ice cream, cream fillings), candies, margarine and
shortenings, cocoa butter substitutes, and spray oils. These diversified uses
promise reasonable growth prospects for edible coconut oil. Non-oil demand is
also  broad-based,  with  uses   in  laundry  products,  cosmetics,  lubricants,
pharmaceuticals and a myriad of industrial  processes.   For many of these uses,
there are no good substitutes apart from PKO and petroleum-based products, and
since CNO enjoys a premium over PRO, petroleum prices are projected to increase
significant in the longer term, and there are growing environmental concerns
over the use of petroleum-based products, market prospects for CNO for
industrial uses are very good.
6.4      The principal by-product of coconut oil production is copra meal, which
is mainly exported to Europe and used as a component of animal feeds. Over 902



- 36 -
of copra meal produced in the Philippines is exported (530,000 tons worth
US$63 million in 1988). This source of demand for copra is generally robust,
but because meal is a lower value by-product of CNO production, it is not a very
important factor in overall copra  demand.    Recently concerns have arisen over
the levels of aflatoxin in animal feeds.   Since December 1988, EEC is enforcing
a maximum tolerated limit of 200 ppb and the Federal Republic of Germany, which
is the major importer, intends to impose an even more stringent limit of 50 ppb
with penalties between 30 and 50 ppb of 1/2 of price for each ppb. Analysis of
samples shipped recently indicated that, while Philippines should be able to
meet the 200 ppb requirement, nearly half of its exports would fail the 50 ppb
test. The future prospects for copra meal exports will, therefore, depend
heavily on: (i) whether restrictions below 200 ppb are actually introduced; and
(ii) the ability of Philippine farmers, traders and exporters to improve
practices so as to meet  the  new  standards.    While copra meal unsuitable for
export to Europe  might  find  altern-tive  markets  (either less discriminating
buyers for livestock, or buyers intending to use it as an organic fertilizer),
it would probably also command a much lower price.
6.5      Desiccated coconut, which  is  nearly  all  exported (88,000 tons worth
US$78 million  in  1988),   is   used   entirely   by   the   food  industry  in
confectionaries, baking products, frozen foods, some canned foods and ready-to-
cook mixes for home use.    The  United  States  accounts  for about half of the
Philippines' exports, and Western Europe for nearly a third. World demand is
moderately price-elastic, but very small (under 150,000 tons) in comparison to
CNO demand. It can, however, strongly influence local prices for coconuts, and
thus copra production, in the catchment areas of the desiccating factories.
6.6      The price outlook  for  coconut  wood  has  a  significant influence on
farmer decisions on  replanting.    Demand  for wood  is strong and increasing,
though the market share of coconut wood is far below its potential. The
techniques for handling and converting coconut wood are known, as is its
potential usefulness, but this knowledge is not widely disseminated. Only since
the start of the original planting/replanting program around 1980 has a major
supply of coconut timber started to develop, although it has proved to be
unsteady. The potential for its wider use stems from the depletion of natural
forests and the aging of the coconut palms and attendant need to replant, which
many savmillers are  now  beginning  to  recognize.    The project would support
initiatives in coconut wood processing, primarily to improve farmer incentives
for replanting. This would be undertaken through continued applied research at
Zamboanga, as well as by assisting farmers to fell palms in an orderly manner,
while keeping saw mills informed of the location and scheduling of sources of
supply.
6.7      Prices.  Price projections  for  copra  and coconut oil are notoriously
unreliable because of unpredictable production variations in both copra and
sources of substitute  oils.    Bank  projections  show  a  small decline in the
coconut oil price in 1988 constant terms from US$565/ton (1988) to $554/ton
(1995)  and  $516/ton  (2000).    For  copra,  the  projected  changes  are from
US$398/ton (1988) to  US$396/ton  (1995)  and  US$367/ton  (2000).   The project
incremental production is not expected to exert any pressure on projected world
prices since, even with project output, total Philippine production and exports
of copra (oil equivalent) may barely equal the level projected by the IEC (para.
6.2). For economic analysis, IEC projected prices, converted to 198B constant



- 37 -
terms on the basis of the MUV index, were used. A standard conversion factor of
0.90 was used to convert local costs into border prices. Because of this,
economic farmgate prices for copra, which is an exportable, would be about 2?
higher than financial farmgate prices.
Project Benefits
6.8      The main project benefits would be:  (a) improved productivity and farm
incomes for small coconut farmers, tenants and resident workers, who are a major
poverty group in the country; (b) increased foreign exchange earnings from
coconut product exports; and (c) development of technical, financial and
instititional bases for the long-term coconut replanting program. Some 275,000
coconut farms (about 30? of total coconut farms in the country) are expected to
benefit from the project's replanting, rehabilitation and technical support
activities and about 180,000 fa-ms from the drying component. The precise
number of beneficiaries is difficult to estimate since benefits could be shared
by owners, tenants and caretakers (para. 2.10). The project on-farm activities
would generate about 12.3 million days of incremental work per year (equivalent
to about  50,000  jobs)  at  full  development.    At  peak  incremental project
production in the year 2006, net foreign exchange earnings from incremental
exports of coconut products (using projected world market price of copra for the
year 2000 in 1988 constant dollars) would be about US$97 million per year. The
project would provide the technical basis for improving planting material,
cultural techniques and pest/disease control in future phases of the long-term
program.   The  establishment  of  about  1,000 ha  of  seedgardens would supply
sufficient material by the year 1997 for replanting the national coconut stand
at a rate of 50,000 ha per year, appropriate to the long run needs of the
industry. Formulation of a financing plan for replanting and institutional
strengthening of PCA is another aspect of project significance.
6.9      The project would produce  several  other  benefits which have not been
quantified. First, it would stimulate the use of fertilizer on coconuts by non-
beneficiaries through its widespread demonstration effect, thereby increasing
copra production beyond that made possible by project-supplied inputs. Second,
the project would encourage the practice of intercropping, thereby increasing
the intensity of  land  use.    Third,  a  range  of  by-products  would be made
available, including coconut husks for coir and fuel, and shells for fuel and
further  processing  into  activated  carbon.    Fourth,  if  the  copra quality
improvement scheme proves successful, its replication throughout the country
could substantially improve farmer incomes and prevent a potential loss of
foreign exchange earnings wh.ch could result from more stringent regulations on
aflatoxin contamination in Philippine copra products. Fifth, the project would
provide the basis for the development of a competitive local hybrid seednut
market, which may reduce costs of future phases of the program. Finally, the
various research activities supported by the project are expected to identify
better hybrid crosses, improved cultural methods, and optimal strategies for
developing the coconut processing industry.
Financial Analysis
6.10     Farm Incomes.  The  financial  impact  of  the project on participating
farm families was estimated using models of six typical kinds of participants
(Table 6.1).  The models  analyze  cash  flows  per  ha for replanting with both



- 38 -
talls and hybrids and rehabilitation.   Farmers would provide for land clearing,
removal  of  senile  palms,   planting,   transportation  of  items  other  than
fertilizer, tools and upkeep. Fertilizer, seedlings, and seeds for cover crops
and intercrops are to be provided by the project in the development phase. At
full development, however, project participant farmers would bear all costs of
inputs.  The incremental  income  per  ha  and  re<urn  per  man-day in with and
without project situation summarized in Table 6.1 below is based on the
assumption that farmers would pay for inputs and hired labor. The without
project scenario assumes 1002 family labor, while the with project situation
assumes 402 hired labor, since the incremental labor requirements may not be
fully met by family labor.
Table 6.1: FARM INCOMES AND RETURN TO LABOR
(in P)
Without proloct    With troect Is     Incremental return
p r day   pr h      p d       r         pr day  per ha
Fortilization/Nutrient SuDPort
F-rtilizing mature local talls    280     4,870    284        6,8657     34      2,407
Fertilizing local talls, 1 yr old    208  3,956    265        7,e68      67      3,784
F-rtilizing hybrids, 3 yre old    134     2,146    309        12,044    176      9,898
Fertilizing hybrids, 6 yr. old    l78     8,783    346        14,199    168    10,466
Replenting (with covercrope and
ntercrops)
With hybrids                      16O     2,237    364       19,316    204    17,076
With local tells                  216     4,820    262       10,469      46      6,149
/a At full developent: year 12 for replanting with talls, year 11 for roplanting with hybrids, yer 5
for fertilizing mature local talls, year 13 for fertilizing 1 year old tall., year 10 for
fertilizing three yer old hybrids, and year 7 for fertilizing eight year old hybrids.
Incremental incomes per hectare and per day of familv labor are quite high, in
particular from replanting with hybrids.   The returns per day of family labor
compare very favorably with the average rural daily wage of P 35 for unskilled
workers. These incomes would, therefore, provide sufficient incentive to
small farmers to participate  in  the  project.    A  family which is short of
workers would have a strong incentive to hire labor rather than forego the
benefits of rehabilitation or  replanting.    It  should be noted that incomes
from coconuts alone would not be sufficient to raise the farmers above the
officially estimated rural poverty level of P 32,000 per family per year
unless the farm size is above 2 ha. The analysis in Table 6.1 is based on the
assumption  that  KCL  would   be  used  for  fertilization/nutrient  support.
However, on about 20? of farms, NaCl, which is much cheaper than KC1, would be



- 39 -
used and incomes of those farmers would be much higher than the figures in
Table 6.1.
6.11     Cost Recovery.  Except for  some international and bilateral assistance
for research, the Philippine coconut industry has largely self-financed its
official support and regulatory services.   Apart from some official counterpart
funds, PCA collects a fee of P 30/ton on copra sales and has operated until 1989
without any contribution from the Treasury (para. 2.19). A replanting program
launched in 1974 was to be financed by a levy of P 200 per ton of copra (or
equivalent) impose. at  point  of  first  sale.    The  objective was to replant
50-60,000 ha per year, starting as soon  as hytr!d seed became available (1979),
and by now over half a million ha should have benefited. However, because of
diversion of the accumulated funds to other purposes and the subsequent
suspension of the levy, little was achieved (para. 2.23). This occurred in 1983
after funds, with a value of approximately US$l billion, had been collected from
the farmers--representing about US$380 per ha or almost US$1,400 per average
farm family.   The  proposed  project  would  mainly  benefit impoverished small
farmers who coatributed to  the  levy.    Project  benefits are regarded as only
partial returns for the contributions made and therefore do not present a cost
recovery issue. The average inputs to be received by a typical project family
would be about US$196 (including contingencies of US$47), or 15Z of the amount
contributed by such families to  the  levy.    Copra quality improvement was not
foreseen as a benefit of the levy, and therefore a fee will be collected from
those utilizing the driers.
6.12     It is  expected  that  PCA's  contribution  to  project  costs (US$31.6
million) would be financed initially from the regular budget, however it may
eventually be possible through recovery of levy funds previously contributed by
the  coconut  farmers  (paras.  2.23  and   6.11).    In  order  to  ensure  the
sustainability of the development program to be set in place by the proposed
project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOP would submit to the
Bank by June 30, 1993 a financing plan for the long-term coconut replanting
program and the associated ac:ivities and staffing of PCA. The plan would be
finalized   within  six  months  of  having  received  the  Bank's comments, and
implementation would commence not later than January 1, 1995, (para. 7.1(m)).
6.13     Fiscal Impact.  During the project period, PCA and/or GOP would need to
contribute an average of about US$32.7 million (P 825.0 million) annually to
cover PCA non-incremental and  project  incremental  costs.   The average annual
incremental cost is estimated at US$6.5 million (P 162.2 million) which would be
financed from partial recovery of the levy funds (paras. 6.11-6.12). As
recovery of these funds may be time-consuming because it is dependent on
judicial proceedings, disbursements under the project would be phased so as to
postpone higher GOP/PCA contributions (58Z of the total) to project year 4 and
5: US$8.0 million (P 200.7 million) in 1993/94, and US$9.8 million (P 257.9
million) in 1994/95. After project completion, the annual capital expenditure
necessary to maintain adequate services to the coconut subsector (primarily for
replacement of vehicles and equipment), exclusive of price contingencies, would
be about US$3.0 million (P 76.6  million).    Also,  GOP/PCA  would have to make
provision to finance the recurrent costs of PCA, particularly its research and
extension services, at approximately US$6.0 million (P 153.2 million) p.a. Debt
service on the loan for this project would be met by GOP; the resulting fiscal
impact, and the fiscal deficit would peak at US$23 million in year 8, when
repayment of the Bank loan would start.



- 40 -
Economic Analysis
6.14     Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The ERR for the project is estimated at
about 402 (Annex 3) on the basis of the following methodology:
(a) all project incremental costs and benefits (except those for
copra quality improvement, which is treated in the manner of
applied research) were expressed in constant 1988 border prices.
Economic farmgate prices of inputs and outputs were derived from
the Bank's price projections of June 1989, adjusted to 1988
constant US dollars using the MUV index, and converted to local
currency at the official exchange rate of P 22 = US$l. Local
costs and locally valued benefits were converted to border prices
by using the standard conversion factor of 0.9;
(b) market wage rates, which are significantly below the official
minimum wage, were used for the analysis but converted to border
prices by the standard conversion factor of 0.90;
'c) for replanting, incor foregone and sale of a proportion of the
coconut stems in the first year were tak3n into account; and
(d) rates of return for individual components are based on on-farm
costs and benefits while the ERR for the whole project includes
all incremental overheads, civil works, vehicles and equipment.
For rehabilitation/nutrient support, the on-farm cost is based on
the use of KC1 fertilizers.
The ERR for fertilization of mature local talls is 532; for fertilizing one
year old talls 12Z; for fertilizing three year old hybrids 114Z; for
fertilizing eight year old hybrids 93Z; for replanting with local talls
(and cover crops) 14?; and  replanting  with hybrids (and cover crops) 26?.
If the benefits  of  intercrops  are  included  along  with cover crops for
replanting with local talls and hybrids, returns will be much higher;
however, because of positive net benefits from the sale of logs and
intercrops in the initial  years,  the  ERR  is  not uniquely determined in
these  cases.    The  ERRs  are  relatively  high  for  rehabilitation  and
fertilization components because there are no initial investments, and
yields would rapidly respond to nutrient support. Since the major part of
the project is rehabilitation/fertilization, the overall project ERR is
also relatively high.
6.15     Sensitivity Analysis.  The results  of a sensitivity analysis show
that the project remains viable across a raage of assumptions on costs and
benefits. The switching value test shows that costs would have to increase
by 46? or benefits decrease by 322 to lower the project's ERR from 401 to
12?, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines. While
the probability of such cost increases is very low, a decline in benefits,
particularly if prices turn out to be lower than projected, could occur.
However, a price level 32Z lower than projected, while possible in some
years (given the high price volatility of vegetable oils), appears unlikely
over the entire 20-year period of analysis. The project can also withstand
a three-year delay in the benefit stream without the ERR going below 12?.



- 41 -
Table 6.2: SWITCHING VALUES /a
(Opportunity Cost of Capital 12Z)
Component                               Base ERR        Benefits      Costs
Rehabilitation of mature talls (KC1)        53             -38          62
Nutrient support (KCl)
1 year old talls                         12               -           -
3 year old hybrids                      114             -65         188
8 year old hybrids                       93             -64         181
Replanting (with cover crops and
intercrops)
With hybrids                            -/b             -52/c       lo8/c
With local talls                        -/b             -42/c        7l1c
Total Proiect                        40            -32           46
/a   The opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 122.
ib   Because of positive net benefits from  sale of logs and intercrops in the
initial years, the ERR is not uniquely determined in these cases.
/c  The switching values are for the net present value.
Environmental Impact
6.16     Overall, the project would have  a  positive impact on the environment.
Project activities are restricted to existing coconut areas and involve no
expansion into new land; on the contrary it is hoped that enhanced farm incomes
would help to reduce farmer incentives to exploit nearby forest lands.
Similarly, project support for utilization of coconut wood should help to
relieve pressure on rapidly  depleting  forest  reserves.    This would become a
major benefit in later years as the replanting program expands. A potential
environmental risk would be the localized large volumes of wood waste which
could breed coconut pests if not properly disposed of. The project might also
eventually lead to a slight reduction in the genetic variability of the coconut
population. Both of these considerations are relatively minor, since the pests
are biologically controllable and pose no known threat to anything other than
palms, and PCA has a well established program for conserving coconut genetic
material.
6.17     Neither insecticides  nor  herbicides  are  currently  used  in coconut
husbandry by smallholders and their introduction is not anticipated, as
techniques for biological control of the major pests have been developed.
Fertilizers to be procured would be determined on the basis of actual
deficiencies determined by leaf analysis. Ammonium sulphate, potassium chloride
and common salts will be  utilized  as  required.   As the fertilizer is applied
only around each palm, the quantity per hectare is small and application would
be by forking into the soil, thus virtually eliminating any run-off. The



- 42 -
introduction of cover crops under the project will assist in stabilizing the
soils, improve the microclimate and provide a source of nitrogen.
Impact on Women
6.18     A small proportion of coconut farms are owned and/or operated by
women -- most  frequently  widows.    Harves,ing,  the  main activity in coconut
farming. involves climbing palms or using long bamboo poles with knives
attached; it is both arduous and hazardous and is undertaken almost exclusively
by men. On the other hand, women may manage the property, assist in copra
making and frequently assist in the cultivation of intercrops, and women often
participate in both DA and PCA extension groups and the SCFOs. With regard to
PCA itself, many women are involved in the research activities of RDB, where
they head four important and highly technical divisions. FOB alsc employs women
as MCDOs and some PCDOs and from time to time women havq also headed the
extension activities and CETC. No negative impact on women can be anticipated
from project activities.
Risks
6.19     The crucial conditions  for  project  success  are  continLed input use
after the grant period, the selection of agronomically suitable areas for the
rehabilitation and hybrid replanting, adequate supply of hybrid planting
materials through the development of private seed-gardens, and the maintenance
of a stable source of local funding to allow activities (principally replanting)
started under the project to be  completed.   On the issue of inputs, attainment
of expected production benefits depends on farmers' continuing to use fertilizer
over the full period of analysis, although fertilizer would be available through
the project only during the first several years. Under normal conditions the
demonstrated value of fertilizer should  persuade most farmers tt continue using
it. However, should increases in the fertilizer/copra price rat!. occur, or the
supply of fertilizer be interrupted by exogenous factors, then fertilizer use
would fall, and with it  project  benefits.   By assuming average project yiel4s
considerably  below  those   obtained   on   well-run  corporate  coconut  farms
(1.5 tons/ha vs. 2.5 tons/ha for rehabilitation, 3.50 tons/ha vs. 4.0 tons/ha
for hybrid replanting and 1.6 tons/ha vs. 2.8 tons/ha for tall replanting), the
analysis has taken into account part of this risk. PCA can further reduce this
risk by augmenting its extension efforts in the outer project years. Location
of palms in agronomically suitable areas is essential to achieve estimated
hybrid yields (and those of talls to be rehabilitated). Therefore, considerable
care needs to be taken in selection of farms to receive seedlings or
fertilizers. PCA would ensure that in allocating these inputs among the large
number of potential beneficiaries, only productive efficiency criteria, based
primarily on agronomic  suitability,  would  be  used.    Concerning an adequate
quantity of hybrid planting materials, private corporations have indicated a
strong interest in establishing seedgardens, possibly due to the fact that they
would obtain  pioneer  industry  incentives.    If  private  investment does not
materialize, PCA would have to establish the seedgardens itself and arrange
priv&te management contracts.   Concerning  long-term  financing for the coconut
subsector, there is a strong likelihood that once the proposed project gets
underway and its benefits are evident, willingness of coconut farmers to accept
a suitable financial arrangement (such as a new form of levy) will improve
quickly. The assurance concerning preparation by GOP of a long-term financing



- 43 -
plan by project year 4(para. 6.12) would help to ensure that official efforts
are focussed on this issue well before this first phase project comes to a
close. Finally, peace and order conditions and typhoons may inhibit project
activities in certain locations, but *s this is a national program, sufficient
flexibility exists to avoid such areas.



- 44 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(a) PCA would present to the Bank evidence that it had formally obtained
the use of a suitable seedgarden site, for at least 20 years, by no
later than March 31, 1991 (para. 3.6(a));
(b) PCA would enter into contracts for hybrid seed production only with
agricultural enterprises with adequate financial, technical and
managerial resources, as agreed with the Bank (para. 3.6(a));
(c) PCA would present to the Bank annually, for approval, its nursery
development plan for the following year, with specific reference to
the need for any field nurseries and the circumstances justifying
their use (para 3.6(b));
(d) PCA and/or GOP would include in their annual capital budget adequate
funds to finance   project  activities, including the non-incre'aental
costs, and that such funds would be released for use in r. timely
manner (para. 4.2);
(e)  GOP would establish and manage a special account to be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.8);
(f)  PCA would  (i)  maintain  separate  project  accounts;  and  (ii) all
accounts related to the project, including PCA's regular accounts,
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the audit reports and statements of accounts would be
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each financial
year. The auditors' report would include a separate opinion that
funds disbursed against SOEs had been used for the purpose for which
they were provided (para. 4.9);
(g) PCA would submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank and would
contribute to a project completion report within six months of the
final loan disbursement (paras. 4.9 and 5.10);
(h) the posts of the Heads of PCA's CPOU and OPD would be filled at all
times by incumbents with training and experience agreed with the Bank
(para. 5.3 and 5.10);
(i) (i) GOP would take all necessary action, throughout the life of the
project, to ensure the  assignment  to  PCA  of sufficient numbers of
competent extensionists to enable  PCA  to  carry out its obligations
under the project; (ii) new extension staff, from whatever source,
would be selected on the basis of having successfully completed six
weeks of field immersion experience and passing the pre-service
training course at CETC; and (iii) GOP would make provision for the
external recruitment of HCDOs in the event that insufficient numbers
of suitable extension staff are available for assignment to PCA
(para. 5.6);
_                v~~~~~~~~~~



- 45 -
(j) farmers participating in the project would be selected according to
criteria agreeable to the Bank (para. 5.11);
(k) for the duration of the project. replanting would be limited to 1 ha.
rehabilitation to 3 ha and nutrient support to 4 ha per farmer (para.
5.12);
(1)  PCA would furnish to the Bank for comment the proposed annual project
area coverage targets and related plans and budget for the succeeding
year, no later than June 30 of each year (para. 5.10);
(m) GOP would Ci) submit to the Bank for review by June 30, 1993 a
financing plan for the long-term coconut replanting program and
associated activities and staffing of PCA; and (ii) the plan would
be finalized within six months of having received the Bank's comments
and implementation would begin by January 1, 1995 (para. 6.12); and
(n) PCA would begin to implement a new organizational structure agreed
with the Bank, no later than September 30, 1990 (para. 5.1).
7.2      Conditions of loan  effectiveness  would  be (i) that arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank have been made to establish at least one
seedgarden (para 3.6(a)); (ii) the formal approval of a new organizational
structure for PCA (para. 5.1); and (iii) the establishment of the CPOU
(para 5.10).
7.3      A condition of loan disbursement for the copra quality improvement
component  would  be  the   presentation   of   a  suitable  plan  for  the
implementation of a pilot scheme to introduce improved drying practices in
2-3 major oil mill catchments (para. 3.14).
7.4      With the above  assurances  and  conditions,  the proposed project
would be suitable for a World Bank loan to the Philippines of US$121.8
million, repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.



PILIPPINES
SMALL CDI'T FARM  MflVE   R ECT
SLAR' Amon C2T WmA
'PeCo '0001                                       Ir    c
2 Total                                        * `:':
S Froige  Rate                                 ' Fser. best
Local     Fordin      TotUl    Excha?ne  Costs   L:ca!  F^*eigt.  T; taI    S;:ce;aa    S3.,:
*2um_v%2` __zz:-   17 .*77e##7t= B.-C=.' S=eS w=-OxIrazzl MCCO  IC7C.:7:= mc.... =5aw.        z-
1. DHJES11E CI'T
A. CIVIL VWRKS                       58944.9    14021.2   73,606.0           20   ?3  2676,6    66g.!   7.34!.'           2
B. VEIC1S                            33,773,5   79,74.6  113s549.1           70       4   1 43.t ?,3#.61.?    .       4
C.  BUPNNt                           17,629.5 3 SO993.4   7!.7?2.9           7        3     901.3  264C.9  3.412.2          7        .
,. REARCH                            4.909.6       96.4      5#774.0        15       0    23.2    .!9.4    .62 !           1'       0
. XIEISION I TRINING               71620.9 1?  905.2  89?526.0             20       3.  3pm!55.    913.9   *t069.4   2^ 3
F. TEOWIC1A  ASSISTANI                      -    2?7319.7    2719.'         100       1         - 1?41.   !'1.i.          :eo       !
6. CmmRA 11ER                        94,600.0    5'400.0   9O9000.0           6       3    ,W945.   2'5,!   4m09.'           t       7
Totwl iWE       cST                  271,439.2   204065.5   475,503.7         43       16  !22338.1  94275.7  216134.        43       16
91SDiie  Ctoitim"Is                  24,466.4    2!i50.2    36t416.6         3.       1   1l112.f   543.7  1,6553           33       1
Price Contin    uin                  90t663.3   52,065.1   142,719.4         36       5   2t5630  1-53.     4 9 102.9     83        3
Total INWJDINS COTIMElNC!ES            3860567*.   21f880.8  '54,649.7          4S      22  16,0'3.2 11,358.8  2'737'.0        41      21
11. KIRUN   OTSt
A. FA   IWIT
:. FERTILIZER                   307e90.2 1I231P174.7 I,53e,064.         90      52  13,99.0 55,962.5  69.95?.5         9C      52
2. DTS              ':t719.0                  lt11,.3 0    63.032.0      1a       2  2,350.9   5!4.2  2#985.-           1e       2
Sui-Tot.l FAR II?flT              3"9.64002 1,"1241e.' 14602,094.9          le      55  16S34".9 U9,476.7 ?72o.9U          le      5
B. SALARIES                        232'118.2       :18.1   232.226.3         0       8  1C0!50.4      '.4  1049!.'          0       e
C. bEtTI9  W0.                     2004960.5    36,711.9  "37t'12.4   '     !    ,       9,134.4 !.670.5  1.90!5.1   e
!t. 'AR1ERS PARTICIPAT!IW          395.101.!           -  395.10.!.          -      1?  !'-504.6        -  17.04.6          _      !
Total RECURRENT  MSTS                1.177079'.5 127.7nS .7 2p45r#13'.1        5"     54 !2.5M.4             !!1962.6 U1.698.1  In   94
Phwsical CARtinswins                 56,7N6.9  !27,926.'   '4.693.'          69       6  2.579.? 5e114.0   R,394.?          6e       I
Prief Cont11eiff                    404,l15.l  587,830.4 2.S2Z!5.5           54      37  1.3s76.' 15tel.0.4  20,196.!       '4      22
votal INCL'DING CONTINGECIES         1.M' 72:.4 1,.95114.0 3.723.62.?3       54      !1' 69,491.4 ?.?h.9  1AD260.3.        53    1l2
cfL  SL ts- 3cs-.: src:sc .  .s31. eC essceCfm: WC-tse- r:.mn: rntfe     cis.:-i Fz|
Total BASLIIIE COSTS                  1.449,217.6 1,481*423.2 ^:932.641                      S2.e'3.5 6'.42.1.3 13373O1,.      5!     !00
Physical Co,.tinUunei,s               21,23.2   139.E77.0  221.400.37         6z       9   3,692.0  6,350 0  10.050.0        63       I
Price Co,1'Urdfifus                  554,S49.4   L7639.9.! oP24,'41.          52      42  1!,9739.1 !7.350.3  33,2P.4        52.     2!
'otal BRO.CT CDSTS                    2,115,t.r.3 2.213.15.? 4#370,n492.0       52      140  9.504.6 0136-7 1?6.641.2          52     133
Apr-l. mS   _m  rn    cw2- w:rsc CC ss   ;                               ?C CTUC 3Cs CU?:    s
Abjl 5. I9WO 13:22



PHILIPPINES
SALL CICIT FA41S IWELOPIENT PROJECT
Projet CPU.efts be Year
Totals Includird Coentirtnc1                             T3ltc  Ircludird CO.tingmncis
(Pt." '000)                                              (US$ '000'
1990     1991     1992      1m93        1994      TisLil     1990    151    1992    1n03        994   Total
A. RE UAN     PLUITII
1. SD SAEM                                 67,047.9 24,23B.4 23.012.6   264380.1   28.910.2  169t489.1  2 951.4  1,031.1   944."  1,046.3  1,104.6  7,077.5
2. DIRECT OIT  IN KMID                     32,155.3 24.252.7 37,087.9   68,781.0  15.448.9  31941,5.6  1.415 51,031.7 1521.7 2?7,8.0  6,013.5  129710.3
3. FAIRS CINRIWUTIIOIS                     13P239.2  9.938.5  11,883.5   17,295.2   40,407.0   92.763.4    582.9   '22.8  487.6   686.0  1.59M    3.728.3
Sub-Toutl REPU14TINS / FPLTDIN               112,442.4 58,429.5 71,993.9  112,456.2  2r6,066.1  581,378.1  4.949.7 2,495.5 2.953.4 A,460.2 B,667.2 23,516.0
D. REHIILITftTION / FERII.IZATLON
1. OM  IN KImD                             31,892.7 13,.719,8 315,314.8  543,136.4  718,053.6 10717P117.3  1,403.9 5,900.9M12937.1 21 441.7 27,529.8  694313.3
2. FAER  CONTRIUUTIONS                      4,798.8 21.783.2 52,650.1   97M905.8  138.919.2  316,057.1    211.2   926.6 2.160.2 3P8W3.1 5,326.1  12.507,2
9*Total RWMILITATION / FERTILIZATION          36691.5 160,503.0 3670944.9  441,042.2  856,972.8 2.063,174.4  1,615.1  6.827.M 15,097.3 25,424.9 32o855.9 81#820.6
C. MIENT SIPPOT  / FERTILZATION
1. NAW  IN KIND                            86,980.0 94581.7 102.374.9   68,329.1   66631.0  *184896.7  3,929.8  4.023.3 4200.A. 7710.0 2,554.6  179317.1
2. FARR CaDNTRIITIIS                        16,438.8 18,967.8 31,516.2   46.339.6   19.894.6  103.177.0    773.6   806.9 1,293.9   649.1   762.7  4,M5.2
-Total iURIElT SWi  / FFRTILIZATION          103,41.8 113.549,5 13911,.1   84,668.7   06,575.6  522.073.7  1,552.4 4,930.2  s494.3 3388.1  3,317.3 21.552.3
D. CO UA 19.11  IIRONT
slOTM IN KIND                              39,713.1 36,609.3 40.141.8   40,609.8   43,858.6  200,931.7  1,748.2  1557.3  ,647.0  1.610.7  14681.5  8244.6
2. FIElRS CONTRItTIONS                      2,3.0  5.202.!  8,446.1    9,121.8    9.95145   35013.5    105.3   221.3   .46.5   361.8   377.7  1.412.6
.__ -                 --- --- ---------- --------- _--------- -------- ---- ------- ----- ------- --------
Su*-Tot3l CO4R4 GIALITY IJRWENBT              42.105.2 41,810.4 48,587.9   49,731.6   53,710.2  2S,5.3  1,853.4  19778.5  1.993s  1.972.4 2.059.2  9,657.2
E. PCIlEANIMR                                 20.517.7  10,092.1  10,711.3   11,295.5   12.199.2   64.9MB.8    903.2   42R.9   139.5     4.0   467.7  2.687.2
F. PCA-RE8IUiS                               113.924. 100.181.3 1164379.0  129,312.4  138.537.6  598,233.6  5,010.5  ,241.5  40774.9 5,128.7  5,3(1.5  24,487.1
G. PUA RESEARCH
1. PC H4EARC PKLN I TIROTN LAB             14,696.3  2.61.1  2.88.1    3484.7    4,m.0   28.022.2    646.9   i21.7   106.7   138.2   168.4  1,181.4
2. PA-RESEARCH  FEIINO UNITS                3.3551  2,090.6  1,593.3    1,772.6    2.009,.1   1O,87.7    1177    R8.9    65.4    70.3    77.0    449.3
3. PCA-FER. TRIALS PROGRAN                    528.7  .1149.8 1,244.5    1,344.1    1:451.6    5718.6        23.3    48.9    51.1    53.3    55.7    232.2
4. PCA-TILM EPERIINTS                       1.357.2  2,021.9  2,273.9    2,465.4    2721.!   10.840.2  s 9.7    86.0    93.3    97.8   104.3    441.2
S. AAY                                      9.270.7  1,742.5  2.516.0    2,569.4    2.750.8   18,849.4    408.1    74.1   103.4   101.9   105.5    792.8
6. 1MM                                     10.129.7  13.243.8  4,100.6    4,202.9    4-451.7   36.i$1.7    459.1   563.    168.2   166.7   170.8  1,528.2
7. ZANAA                                    9,586.0  8,148.1  4,3s9.e    4,599.8    4.741.8   3l,465.5    422.0   346.6  .180.1   182.4   181.8  1,312.9
- - - -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- ----- ----------- - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - -_-- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- --- -- - -- - - -_- - -- - - - - - - -- -- -- - --  ,,
Sub-Total PC* RESEAI                          49s223.7  31,257.8  19.706.3   20.439.0   22r521.6  142.148.4  2.166.8  1,379.6   767,.   810.6   863.5  5.938.1                          .
N. EXMiSON 1 TRAINING                         29.013.8  28,276.3 370748,1   39,445.2   36,241.9  1707P5.6   1m.27   t202M.8 1.5488  1.5l4.5  1,389.5  6.986                           . -7
---- - - - --- - ---- - - --- - - ------ - --- ------ - --- --- - - - --- ------ -------- ----- - - -------- -- - --- ---------
Tot.l PROJECT 018S                             507,237.2 544,089.9 80,991.8  .088,M3913 1,032.715.0 4#S41485.0  22,31' 3 23,144.4 33.069.2 43,167.3 564931.8 176441.2
April S 1990 13:22



WI9ALL     7  AR8S DUELOPIN  PRCO!T
Project CUPonents bw Year
Peo '000)
Dse Costs                               .:,a
I1O     '991      1992       93        2994        Pa:0    !M$ p530'
A. REDWYIND / PLFATING
1. SED SAMDEN                                54,645.3  185446.0  6i.552-.   I80:11.4    0l17-    12 -B34.6       ?19.S
2. DIRECT SwT 111 KIND                       25,63.6  17P800.7 25,28.4   43,267.!   91,2t .1    2.3,2S4. 0 -24^.2
3. fAOlERS CURITIMWI                         1.W623.0  8t024.0  t,964.0   1.945.0   22.840.0    66,2P6.0   3-0t3.5
Bub-Totul REPUfITII / PLANTIE                   91,931.9  49270.7  50.701.    73.223.5  !35.236.6   395,414.6  17-93.4
S. PENADILITATION / FtRLMIZATION
1. GMIT in KIND                              25,454.0 101,516.0 213.813.6  341t01?.6  417WP5.6  1-09S-546.8  40,9?0.4
2. FPUlS CINRMIUJTI31S                        4.213.0  17,587.0  39,272.-0   67,619,0  S8.88,0   2175,9.0   9,87.7
SubTotal REMIIliTATION 7 FERIML17ATUII          29t667-0 119*403.0 2533#05.6  408B636.6  506M.93,A  1)317.075.8  59t67,1
C. MIURIENT SUPORT / FERTILIZATIOE
1. OMIT IN KIND                              69,420.0  69420.0  69,420.0   42t901.6   38.736.4   28,898.0  13177.2
2. FAWRNER CRIIFlTIS                         14*432.0  15314.0  239523.0   1,2R35.0   12*722.5    77276.5   34512.6
-       -- --- - - - --- - - -- - - - -- -- - --  -- -_--   
SubWTotal IUIRIENT RWPORT / FERTIL17ATION       8,852.0 84v734.0 92,943 0   54.186.6   51,458.0   367#174.5  16.689.8
0- CDPIA OILITT IIfIWIET                                                                                                                                                                                 0
* 1. MI  IN KIND                             32U5.659  27864.3 27.452.8  2r.633.1   25.633.    139,449.3   6378.6
2. FAUlS CUIIITTlii                           2,000.0  4000.0  6.000.0    6,000.0    6.000.^    24ooo0.o   1,00.0
-  _ - -- --- -  -    ----- - -  - -- -  -  -  - -- -    - -- ----- - -  -  - _- -- - - -- - -- - -- -- -
Sub-Total COPam  WALlM   INPIRo T               34,65.9 31,864.1 33.452,8    31.6Z331    31633.1      63,449.3   7,429.5
E. PCA-WIEXAUIR                                 179226.9  7?8-.8  ?7766.4    7,290.4    7,F90.4    48,0S2.9   2,184.2
F. PCA-RlEGIOIS                                 94.242.7  76*t34.0  82.z2,4.5    4,444.5   83,551.   4J2,2,197.!  19,149.9
S. PCA RESEARCN
1, PCRESEARCH PLANT NUTRITION LAB            t2.078.0  .9217.0  1*853.0    2.321.3    2,714.7    21184.0         962,9
2. PCA-RESFARCH 9EODING tITs                  20748.1   15M5.1   1 .1 3!       163.1    1,21.1       7,15.7 ,    756.-
3. PCA-FR. rRIALS PRIORM                        451.0    902.1    902.1       902.1      0O?.       4*059.4     IB4.5
4. PCA-NTILCC EXPERINIETS                     1.108.6  1.514.5    WM53.4    1-579,6     1*611.7      7t390.8     3.'5.9
5. ALFAY                                      7548.0  1.297.4  1!755-8    1,659.8    1,64.8    1385.9            631.6
6. DMA4V                                      8,498.3  9#829.2  2-827.-    2,682.1    2.633 I    26469.6   1-203,2
7. Z8AhNOGA                                   7,817.7  6.44.6  3PO75.9    2.982.9    2.841.4    22*863 .    1,039.2
- - - - - - -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - --- - -- -- -- - --- -- -- -- ----- --- - - - -- - -- - - - - -                                         5i
Sub-Totl PCA RESEARCH                           40*24S.7 23.480,8  13-118.4   13.200.9    13*S68.8   1030708.6   4.714,0
H. EXTENSION I TRAININ1                        23.545,7 20*924.8 25,790.3   24*S.?7   21t2'i0.0   114.4679   5,2S4.^94
TOta  AInE COSTS                                 4'5,581.7 409.3901. 559,02.9  697-062.8   SS0#42*.0  2,9z2,640.e  13.3401.0
PbVeiCul ContinikCi                            29734.6  29*889.2  42:110.2   539738.7   65*626.9   221.P00.3  :104SX.0
Price Contiw4rcies                             61*9'0.9 :049.80.2 204#70.2  336*689.f  '5645n.1  1.221./43.0  33.28',4
- -- - - -- -- -- --- - -- ----- -_- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- ---  - -- -- --- -- -- -- ---
to%al PRDJER COSTS                              507,277.2 54440"9.9 805,971.8 1.0oM391.1 1*432P7`5.0 4.178.485.0  176*641.2
4==otio StI=Ma ..13n-= f22t== =1===    ====  ont-
4wri1 5* 1990 t3:22



PHILIPPIES
SlL COCOf FS CW WL0Ef PROJECT
Ssw kr unts bh Tnr
Totals Includirs Contirnsin                            ToUls Ilcudird ConlirW nein
(Ps '-)                                             QRS 'COO)
1590     1m      1M         1993      1994      Total       199     199      9      1993    14   Total
uin   ~        _        * _in     _=_su us  u2m3         =_       g  2= ==         _    - -:OS'r    - -
A. CNIL vIS               61,602.9 24W067.8  9,947.0      47.9          -   95.665.3  29711.7  1,023.8   408.1    1.9       -  *,145.5
P. 8IICLES                68,366.4  17#504.8 24h22.2   23.959.9   16,780.5  150#633.7  3,009.5   744.6   95.6   950.3   643.4  6333.3
C. EIIUff                 69,058.0 20f410.5  3o632.4    1,834.3    1,299.4   95.223.6  2,995.9   868.2   149.0    MRP   49.4  4:135.3
D. EIM                     1,560.5  1,75.2  U445.2    1,590.7    1,666.9    7,698,5      48.7    62.8    59.3    61.5    63.9    316.2
E. EXENIlh  11611N3      16,190.9 23,600.2 31p510,0   32,843.3   29.747.6  133,891.9   712.7  19003.9 IiM.2  19302.6 1s140.5  5.452.6
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTAE     11.614.7 13,752.4  3,646.2    2,389.0    2,580.2   33,992.4    511.3   585.0   149.6   91.8    98.9  1 439.5
so COPm  mmER              9397.2 20,436.8 33,181.1   35,935.6   39,702.5  137.55332    413.7   969.3 1,361.4  I i421.3 1J403.8  5,549.5
Total I1 1  COSTS          236,790.4 121.247,6 107,384.1   99,460.6   90*766.0  654,648.7 10.423#4 5.157.6 4,405.9 3M905.1 3,479.9 27,377.0
Wf:=~    4      =:*77= r_u~u   Z~2 ~ -- --z -W---   ----   -- -.... =                           .. :
11. IRETA COSTS
_______                                                                                                                                                                              '0
A. FAIN IT
1. FERILID        .  138,999.4 250,031.1 442,654.5  665,998.9  905,i39.9 2,4039013.7  6,113.8 10635.9 18,161.7 26,410.6 34.717.9 9A.010.0
2. OTIERS             19M3B2.6  9,279.8 13,923.2   15,656.0   379778.0   94%618.6    853.2   352.2   554.8   620.9 1.448.4  3,929.6
Sub-Total FN IUWUT      15,2/20 258,309.8 456At77,7  681,594.8  943,317.9 2F497p639.3  6,967.1 10,980.0 19,716.6 27,031.6 36,166.3 99,99.5
go SLAIES                32,728.0 55,042,4 65t62369   79,535.1   86400.3  319,329.8  1440.7 2.341.4 2,692.5 3.154.5 3,312.5 12r941.6
C. OpeRATIU COST         i2t578.0 53t598.5 72,90.2   89,178.1  103,219.3  359.863.2  1,674.3 2,.'0.0 2,9166.0  3, 97.3 3,957.3 14,574.9
D. FARM  PRTICIPATION   36,868.9 55,991.6 1042515.9  1409662.4  209Of72.4  547h011.0  1.622.9 2,3'7.5  4,288.2 5,579.9 8.015.) 21,94.3
Total RECI    M COSTS       2709446.8 422,842.4 6989607.7  99930.5 1.342.009S0 3,723936.3  11904.9 17,996.9 29,663.3 39.262.? 51,451.9 149.269.3
Total PRICT COSTS           507,237.2 544,089.9 905,991.8 1.089,391.1 1.432.775.0 4,378.485.0 22,328.3 23t144.6 33,069.2 C.367.3 54,931.9 1769641.2
April 5, 1990 13:22
I- ..



ANNEX 1
Table 1.4
- 50 -
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
PYI /a  PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5       Total    Z
90/91   9'192   92/93   93/94   94/95
(P million)
Farmers           36.9     55.9    104.5    140.6    209.1        547.0   12.5
PCAIGOP           81.0     97.3    149.3    200.7    257.9        786.2   18.0
ODA               17.3     11.8       1.6       -        -         30.7    0.7
Bank             372.0    379.1    550.6    747.1    965.8   3,014.6   68.8
Total       507.2    544.1    806.0  1,088.4  1,432.8   4,378.5  100.0
(US$ million)
Farmers            1.6      2.4       4.3       5.6      8.0       21.9   12.4
PCA/GOP            3.5      4.1       6.2       8.0      9.8       31.6   17.9
ODA                0.8      0.5       -         -        -          1.3    0.7
Bank              16.4     16.1      22.6      29.6     37.1      121.8   69.0
Total        22.3      23.1      33.1     43.2      54.9     176.6  100.0
/a Project start-up planned for September 1990.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.5
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule by Categories and by Years
(US$ million)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97  Total
Civil works             1.7       0.9      0.5      -       -        0.4    0.3    3.8
Equipment and
spare parts           1.6       1.3      0.2     -        -       0.2    0.2    3.5
Vehicles and
spare parts           1.7       1.0      0.6     0.3      -       0.8    0.7    5.1
Research                 -        0.1      -       0.1      -        0.1    -       0.3
Extension, training    0.4        1.0      1.3      1.1     0.9      0.8    -       5.5
Technical
assistance            -         -        0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1    -       0.4
Copra improvement        0.4      0.6      1.0      1.1     0.9      0.7    0.2    4.9
Farm inputs              2.8      7.6    12.2    19.2    26.4    17.6    4.1   89.9
Incremental
operating costs       1.2       1.8      1.5     1.2      1.2      1.5    -       8.4
Total              9.8      14.3    17.4    23.1    29.5    22.2    5.5  121.8
Cumulative              9.8      24.1    41.5    64.6    94.1   116.3  121.8



-52 -                                   ANNEX 1
5                          ~~~~~~~Tobgole .
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursument Schedule by Quarters
(USS million)
Bank fiscal                                                    Cumulative       Historical
year end                                  Cumulativ,         disbursement     disbureme nt
quarters             Disbursement        disbursement        as X of loan     Profile /b
FY91
2nd                     2.6                  2.6                 2.0           2       2
3rd                     2.9                  5.4                 4.4
4th                     4.4                  9.8                 8.0           4        4
FY92
1st                     4.0                 13.8                11.3
2nd                     3.7                 17.5                14.4           8       6
3rd                     3.1                 20.8                16.9
4th                     8.6                 24.1                19.8          13        8
FY93
lot                     3.4                 27.6                22.6
2nd                     4.6                 32.1                28.4
3rd                     4.6                 38.7                30.1
4th                     4.8                 41.5                34.1          27       12
FY94
Ist                     4.8                 48.3                38.0
2nd                     8.2                 62.6                43.1          37       14
3rd                     6.0                 68.6                48.0
4th                     6.1                 64.6                63.0          44       18
FY95
let                     6.2                 70.8                58.1
2nd                     7.6                 78.4                64.4          62      18
3rd                     8.2                 88.6                71.1
4rd                     7.5                 94.1                77.3          so      20
FY98
1st                     6.9                101.0                82.9
2nd                     6.5                106.6                87.4          68      22
3rd                     4.6                111.1                91.2
4th                     6.2                116.3                95.6          78      24
FY97
1.t                     6.5                121.8               100.0          88      28
2nd
ard                                                                           96      28
4th
FY98
1st                                                                           99      30
2nd
3rd                                                                          100       3
/ Credit effectiveness, completion and closing dates assumed to be October 1, 1990,
September 30, 1996 and September 30, 1998 respectively.
/b For the Philipines agricultural projects as stated in the Standard Disbursement Profile
dated April 22, 1988.



PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Copra Yield Profil-
(kgfha)
Replanting with   Replanting with    Fertilization of   Nutrient support of Nutrient support of  Nutrient support of
Year        Hybrlds          ocal talls /a   mature local talls    1 year old tails   3 year old hybrids
WOP       WP      WOP       UP       WOP         UP      WOP          UP       WOP          UP     '     o 
(1990)   s5o          0       0          0     700         709       0           0          0            0      240         288
(1991)    490         0       0          0     700         904       0           0          0          862      400         576
(1992)    480         0     320          0     700       1,173        0          0          0          880      800       1,200
(1993)    470       200     400          0     700       1,393       0           0         73        1,760      80o       1,800
(1994)    460       425     400        158     700       1,467        0          0        147        2,112      800       2,400
(1996)    460     1,250     400       302      700       1,467       0         289        220        2,200      600       2,840
(1998)    440     1,750     400       444      700       1,467       0         400        387        2,420      60o       2,760
(1997)    430     2,250     633       889      700       1,487     222         633        387        2,420      60o       2,760
(1998)    420     2,750     600      1,111     700       1,487     333         933        367        2,420      600       2,760
(1999)    400     3,260     688    1,333       700       1,487     444       1,222        387        2,630      600       2,760
(2000)    390     3,600     723      1,666     890       1,467    568        1,444        387        2,630      60o       2,760
(2001)    380     3,600     763      1,778     680       1,487     822       1,566        387        2,630      60o       2,180
(2002)    370     3,600     773      1,778     670       1,487      889      1,733        387        2,530      0oo       2,780
(2003)    380     3,500     793      1,778     8o0       1,487     768       1,733        387        2,530      600       2,760
(2004)    340     3,500     828      1,778     850       1,487     844       1,733        387        2,530      800       2,780
(2005)    330     3,500     913      1,778     640       1,487   1,022       1,733        367        2,530      800       2,780
(2008)    320     3,600     893      1,778     830       1,487   1,022       1,733        387        2,580      800       2,780
(2007)    300     3,600     883      1,778     820       1,467   1,022       1,733        387        2,630      800       2,760
(2008)    290     3,600     873      1,778     810       1,487   1,022       1,733        387       2,630       800       2,760
(2009)    280     3,600     683      1,778     600       1,487   1,022       1,733       3a7         2,530      60o       2,780
WOP = Without Project
UP = With Project
/s  In typhoon-damaged areas.  In without project situation  ;it Is assumed that 40% of trees will survive the typhoon and start
yielding again in Year 3 while the rest 60% will be replanted with farmers' own material and start yielding in Year 8.  In
with project situation, it is assumed that the entire area will be replanted and start yielding in Year 5.
I-



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.2
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Incremental Production
(tons: copra equivalent)
Replanting      Rehabilitation       Nutrient Support for
with                of          Talls          Hybrids
Year        Hybrids  Talls    Mature Talls        1 year   3 years  8 years  Total
1990          -300         0         180              0         0       917      797
1991          -215         0       4,620              0     1,056    3,362    8,823
1992           468   -3,072       22,492              0     2,640   11,460   33,988
1993           407   -3,840       61,092              0     5,061   22,920   85,640
1994           163   -3,216      119,664              0     5,895   34,380  156,886
1995         6,842   -2,164      185,964          9,063     5,940   38,964  243,609
1996        17,621      -752     235,996         11,160     6,159   41,256  311,440
1997        25,225       556     260,996          8,677     6,159   41,256  342,869
1998        32,454    2,505      266,916         16,740     6,159   41,256  366,030
1999        39,343    4,583      266,916         21,706     6,489   41,256  380,293
2L'00       45,002    6,171      267,116         24,775     6,489   41,256  390,809
2001        47,415    8,017      267,916         26,059     6,489   41,256  397,152
2002        47,609    9,071      269,596         29,128     6,489   41,256  403,148
2003        47,853    9,456      272,276         27,258     6,489   41,256  404,588
2004        48,017    9,139      275,756         24,803     6,489   41,256  405,460



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3.l
PHILIPPINES
COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Computation of Economic Farmsate Price.
Potasslum
Unit        Copra /a      Corn /b        TSP /c      Chloride  d  Ures /
Project 1990 price In 10M
constant dollars /f               USS/MT       a7s            8s            161             92           192
Ocean Freight and Insurance         USS/MT        6o            6o             60             S0            so
Projected Price FOB/CIF
Philippine Ports                  US$/MT       815           145            221            182           262
Price In local currency
(USIl = e 22)                    Peso/MT    8,980          3,190         4,882           4,004         6,644
Port handling costs                 Peso/MT       35            as             85             as            as
Transport from/to Davao from/
to the regione                    Peso/MT      440           440            440            440           440
Price at regional warehouse         Peso/MT    6,455         8,68e          5,887          4,479         8,019
Local distribution costs            Peso/MT     na.            100            100            100           100
Copra collection costs              Peso/MT      400          n.a.           n.a,           na.           n.a.
Cost of drying to 5X moisture       Peso/MT      100          na.            n.a.           na.           n.a.
Economic Farmgate Price        Peso/MT    5,966          8,765          5,487          4,579         8,119
a   Philippines/Indonesian, bulk, CIF NW Europe.
US, No. 2 Yollow, FOB Oulf Ports.
o Bulk, FOB US Gulf.
Bulk, FOB Vancouver.
e  Bagged, FOB NW Europe, Price of Ammonium Sulphate (AS) is assumed to be 21/45 of the price of urea.
World Bank Price Forecasts, June 1989.



PHIzLP,Su
9SALL C0CMJT FARS neVEOP1491T PR0JET
lO9O      199Ol  12   1993  14    9S  1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   200?   2008   2009
rnerae,wnaa  Costs IA
On-farm costs of fertilixing
mture local tall1                  38    155    355    553    712    690    680    677    720    868    868    868    867    869    871    879    678    879    882    884
On-farm costs of fertilizing
locel  talls, I yr old             49     49     49     SO     41      o6     58     56     62     66     68      69     71     70     68     64     64     64      64     64
On-farm costa of fertilizing
hybrid. S yra old                   6      7       8     10     10     11     11    11      11      11     11     11     11     11     11     11      11     11     11     11
On-farm costa of fertilizing
hybrids. 8 yr- old                 39     40      46     S6     59     69     71     71     71     71      71     71     71     71     71     71      71     71     71     71
On-frm costs of replanting
Xith hybrids A                     13     12      32     63    147     74     77     39     48     S8      64     84    105     76     79     79     82      92    111     79
On-farm costs of-replanting
with local talls Lk                36     44      62     38     29     19     19    24      40     39      37     28     29     30     45     41      39     30     29     29
Subtotal on-form costs           181    30      21    770   09       919    9l6   878    952  1113  1.119  1.131  1154  1127  1.145  1.140  1  4   1.147  1 168 lfl 8
Civil works e                        14       8      3      -             -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -
Equivpent and vehoc  L               71     20      1S     13      ;     71     20     1S     13       9     71     20     15     13      9     71      20     1S     13      9
Staff and other oprNting costa, Ls   63      90    107    118   124   114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114    114
Subtotal other coats               48    "A    J2                                   Z    12734     123    186    134    M     127    123   18S   1I3    I21    1         123
TotaI Incremental Coat           129    425   646    901 1313  111&  1050  1.00   1070  1236  1304  1.26   1283  1.2S4  1.26   1.25  1.279  1276  1.29S  1.261 
Incrmnta 1 8nef It.
Fertilizing mturo local talls         1      28    187    376    741  1,163  1.489  1,666  1.689  1.669  1.637  1,612  1,S58  1,599  1,612  1,633  1,653  1,675  1,694  1,714
Fertilizing local talla, 1 yr old     0       0      0      a      0     52     71     54    101    129    145    152    170    160    145    116    116    116    116    116
Fertilizing hybrids, 3 yr  old        0       6     16     32     37     38     39     38     37      39     38     38     38     38     38      38     38     38     so     38
Fertilizing hybrids, 8 yrs old        6      20     70    143   216    252   261    256    250    246    241    241    241    241    241    241    241    241    241    241
Replanting with hybridx               15     22     28     77    199    178    97      39      57    144    164   212    2S4    305   291    311    288    298    802    322
Replanting with local talIs/         64    119    133      79     22      7      4      19    22      47     5O     71     64     67      S6     69     61     71     56     61
Total Incremental Bnefit           _    1       3.217  11;90  1 061 2 0622  24                 27 L2   n6  2        3626   2. 10 2  38   2B 2  397L  L2  3   2         L49  I
La  Excluding taxes and duties and including physical contingencies of 10 for civil worl,s. 71 for equipment and 56 for vehicles and all other costa excluding incrmentel
staff. A set of 0.90 is applied to local costs.
/b Including intercrop- and cover crops.
LS Excluding costs of copra quality improvement and including contract research through year S.
s ii



- 57 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
History of Coconut Legislation and Institutions
1.       Over the years, GOP has tried several approaches to establishing and
maintaining a strong and viable coconut industry. Since 1916, when a Coconut
Products Board was created by Public Act 2598 to encourage the improvement of
coconut products and make the farmers participants in, and beneficiaries of,
the coconut industry, a long series of laws and regulations have been enacted.
In 1940, Commonwealth Act No. 518 established the Nationai Coconut Corporation
(NACOCO) with the following objectives: (a) to establish, keep, maintain and
operate drying plants or copra driers, or coconut centrals, wit'. a view to
adjusting the coconut industry to a position independent of trade preferences
in the United States and to provide facilities for the better curing of copra
products and the proper utilization of coconut by-products, provided that no
subsidy, direct or indirect, shall be paid to producers or processors of
copra, coconut oil or allied products; and (b) to provide facilities for
production loans to coconut planters and copra products.
2.       In 1954, NACOCO was abolished by Republic Act (R.A.) 1145 which, in
turn, created the Philippine Coconut Administratlon (PHILCOA) with the
following olbjectives: (a) to ensure the steady and orderly development of the
coconut industry and to stabilize and strengthen its position in the world
(b) to promote the effective merchandizing of copra, coconut oil, coconut
products, and by-products in the domestic and foreign markets so that those
who are engaged in the coconut industry will be placed on a basis of economic
security; provided, however, that the PHILCOA may not engage in trading in any
form without the prior approval of the President of the Philippines, which
approval may be given only after prior recommendation of the National Economic
Council; (c) to improve the tenancy relations between cocon t proprietors and
tenants and the living conditions of laborers engaged in the coconut industry;
and (d) to encourage the invention of useful machinery that will hasten the
development of the coconut industry.
3.       Towards the end of the 1950s, R.A. 2282 was enacted providing for
adequate financing of coconut cooperatives and coconut producers and creating
a "Coconut Financing Fund," constituted either from the sale of bonds or funds
appropriated from the National Treasury. However, no project was implemented
under this financing program.
4.       The Philippine Coconut Research Institute (PHILCORIN) was created by
Congress in 1964, to be funded from budget "surpluses.' The Institute was
established at Bago-Ostrivo, Davao in 1967, with only meager facilities and
almost no operating funds. Nevertheless, the small staff was able to commence
some important experiments with the aid of external grant financing.
PHILCORIN was under the National Science Development Board and had a Board of
Directors in which the private sector predominated.



-58                                ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.       With the avowed policy of accelerating the development of the coconut
industry by providing adequate medium- and long-term financing for capital
investment in the industry, R.A. 6260, otherwise known as the Coconut
Investment Act, created the Coconut Investment Company (CIC) in 1971. The law
provided for the collection of a levy of P 0.55 for every first domestic sale
of 100 kg of copra, until the authorized capital stock of the CIC of P 100
million was fully paid. After the amount of P 100 million was finally raised
in 1981, Executive Order (EO) 825 was issued in 1982 authorizing the
organization and incorporation of the CIC with the Coconut Producers
Federation (COCOFED) Board of Directors serving as the interim board of CIC.
In 1986, the CIC was placed under sequestration by the Presidential Commission
on Good Government (PCGG) and has since remained inactive.
6.       In June 1973, Presidential Decree (P.D..) 232 abolished PHILCOA and
PHILCORIN and created the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) with the
following purposes and objectives:
(a) to promote the accelerated development of the coconut and other palm
oils industry in all its aspects.
(b) to provide general directions for the steady and orderly development
of the industry; and
(c) to achieve vertical integration of the coconut industry so that
coconut farmers become participants in, and beneficiaries of, the
development and growth of the coconut industry.
7.       In August 1973, P.D. 276 established a Coconut Consumers
Stabilization Fund (CCSF) to maintain supplies of coconut-based consumer goods
(cooking oil, laundry soap, etc.) at low retail price levels established by
price control. P.D. 276 authorized the PCA to formulate and implement a
subsidy scheme by imposing a levy in accordance with the mechanics established
under R.A. 6260. The levy started at P 15.00 per 100 kg of copra and rose to
a maximum of P 100 per 100 kg of copra.
8.       In November 1974, P.D. 582 mandated the implementation of a
nationwide hybrid replanting program (National Coconut Replanting Program
(NCRP)) and authorized the financing of a coconut hybrid seed garden. Funding
was sourced from the aforementioned levy, which was increased by P 20.00 per
100 kg of copra for that purpose.
9.       P.D. 755 was enacted in July 1975 declaring a national policy to
provide readily available credit facilities to coconut farmers at preferential
rates through the acquisition of a commercial bank for the benefit of the
coconut farmers. Payment for the acquisition of the United Coconut Planters
Bank (UCPB), were financed from collections of the CCSF. Thereafter, CCSF
funds were deposited with UCPB on sn interest free basis.
10.      P.D. 961, enacted in July 1976, codified all laws dealing with the
development and funding of the coconut and other palm oils industry and
prescribed that these funds were to be used for the following purposes:



- 59-                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
(a) Coconut Consumers Stabilization Fund: (i) to provide a subsidy for
coconut-based domestic consumer products; (ii) to provide for a
refund for premium duty collected on copra, or its equivalent, sold
prior to February 17, 1974; (iii) to finance the developmental and
operating expenses of COCOFED; and (iv) to finance the establishment
and operation of industries and commercial enterprises related to the
industry.
(b) Coconut Investment Development Fund (CIDF): (i) to finance a hybrid
coconut seed garden (Bugsuk); (ii) to purchase seednuts produced by
the seedgarden; (iii) to pay the cost of implementing the nationwide
replanting program; (iv) to finance extension services, model
plantations and other activities designed to inform coconut farmers
on the proper methods for replanting; and (v) the balance for other
investments for the benefit of the coconut farmers.
11.      In May 1980, following expressions of concern by farmers and
politicians that the levy was depressing farmgate prices and that the benefits
of vertical integration within the industry were not accruing to the farmers
who had financed it, the fixed levy was replaced by a price-related sliding
scale, and later, in August 1982, was suspended on Presidential instructions
by PCA. This led to an immediate reduction in the activities of all concerned
entities and to the suspension of the NCRP.



ANNEX 5
- 60 -                            Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
1.       PCA would keep financial record in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect its financial status. PCA would ensure that its
corporate accounts, project accounts, the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) are audited annually by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts and the auditors report
including a statement for each account certifying that Bank funds had been
used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of its fiscal year.
2.       With respect to SOEs, the audit report should include the following
statement:
.During the course of our audit of ......... for the period .
we examined Statements of Expenditures submitted to the World Bank during that
period in support of applications for reimbursement from the Loan Account,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated ........
our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records, verification of assets and liabilities, and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the Statements of Expenditures submitted, and the
supporting schedules and information submitted with them, together wiLn the
internal controls and procedures involved in their preparation, can be fairly
relied on to support the applications for reimbursement in accordance with the
requirements pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
3.       PCA would prepare annual project plans and work programs, for the
Corporation as a whole and each participating unit, that would clearly show
proposed project related activit;es. A procurement program would also be
prepared to reflect pr' nosed purchases for the following year, detailing the
items, quantities, timing and sources of funding and procurement methods
(whether ICB, LCB, international shopping or other). These programs would be
submitted to the Bank for information. The procurement plan would be addi-
tional to any specific requirements under Bank loan. On the basis of the
annual plans, work program and procurement plan, PCA would earmark funds in
its budget and ensure its availability.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 5
-~~~~~~ ~~Page   2
4.       PCA would submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank containing at
least the following information: physical progress achieved (in quantitative
terms); major issues/problems encountered or likely to be arise in the subse-
quent period; and objectives for the subsequent periods. The quarterly
progress report would contain a summary of current expenditures and a
cumulative record.
5.       After project completion, PCA would prepare a Project Completion
Report (PCR) analyzing project Implementation and achievements in relation to
its objectives and would submit this report to the Bank within six months of
the project closing date.



-62 -                            ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Schedule
Project Activity               1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Effectiveness                       r
Establish 3 Seedgardens
Establish 2 Seedgardens
Replant with local talls
Replant with available
hybrids
Replant with seedgarden
hybrids
Fertilize low-bearing
palms
Nutrient support
Aflatoxin Analysis/Survey
Pilot reorganization comp.         x
Assignment of additional
MCDOs
Renovate and equip CTEC



ANNEX 7
- 63 -
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SuDervision Plan: Bank Supervision Mission Schedule
Proj ect     Approxliate                                             Expected              Staff Input
Yar        Mission Date*        Ar-as of Concentration          Skill Requirements       (staff-weks)
1         July/Aug          Start up, loan effectiveness,       Tree Crops
1990             training, procurement, PCA           Financial Analyst           8.0
reorgenization monitoring,          MAE Specialist
staff recruitment, accounting,      Training
audit and disbursement
procedures
1        Oct/Nov           Seedgardens field progress,          Tree Crops                  4.0
1990              procurement, reorgenization,        Financial Analyst
MCDO recruttment Year 2
program, CPOU activities
1        Apr/May            Field program, Projects A PCA       Tree Crops                  6.0
1991             accounts for 1990, MCDO              Financial Analyst
training and deployment,            Economist
monitoring and evaluation,
copre driver program
2         Oct/Nov           Seedgardens,  procurement           Tree Crops Agronomy         6.0
1901              intercropping, UCDO supply,         Financial Analyst
Aflatoxin findings
2         Apr/May           Field program, 1991 accounts,       Tr-e Crops Financial        6.0
1992             Pilot drier progress                 Analyst Economist
Monitoring and evaluation
8         Oct/Nov           Long-term financing proposals,      Tree Crops,                 6.0
1992             Field program, MCDO supply and       Agronomist
training, Intercropping
a         Feb/Mar           Review draft Financing Plan,        Tree Crops                  8.0
1998              1992 account., general project      Financial Analyst
progress, monitoring and            Econom'st
evaluation
4         Oct/Nov           Hybrid seed supply,                 Tree Crops                  8.0
1998             Procurement, MCDO supply,            Financial Analyst
Training, Pilot drier progress      Training Specialist
Processing Specialist
4         Apr/May           Field Progrsm, 1998 accounts,       Tre  Crops                  8.0
1994             Disbursements, Procurement,          Financial Analyst
Monitoring and Evaluation           Economist
5         Oct/Nov           Hybrid seed supp'y, nurseries,      Tree Crops                  4.0
1994             Procurement, Research                Agronomist
achievements, Pilot drier
progress, Intercrops
5         Apr/May           Field Program, 1994 accounts,       Tree Crops                  6.0
1996              Implementation Financial Plan,      Economist
Disbursementa, Pilot drier
progress, Procurement
6         Oct/Nov           Review of Project achievements,    Tree Crops                   6.0
1995             final procurement                    Agr2nomist
Economist
6         Apr/May           1995 accounts, Final                Financial Analyst           2.0
1996              procurement *nd disbursement
7         Oct/Nov           PCR                                 Tre  Crops                  8.0
Economist.



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
SHALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT
(To be Completed)
Documents in Project File
PCA      Agricultural Research & Development Consultation, April, 1984.
IBRD     SA. Philippines: Coconut Development Project - February 1985.
PCA      Coconut Farms Development Project - Preparation Report - February
1989.
IBRD     Miscellaneous Papers and Tables 1989:
1. Economic Analysis - Crop Budgets for Replanting,
rehabilitation and nutrient support under various
scenarious and differing fertilizer.
2. Computer analysis of detailed costs - Costab Tables.
3. Economic Analysis - Costab Tables.



- 65-                                          CHART 1
PHILIPPINES
SNALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 1. PhiliDOine Coconut Authority - Organization Chart
SECRETARY
DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 
CHAI RMAN                      OF ICEO         OIO
PCA GOVEINING BOARD
|CORPORATE SECRETARY      | COMPTROLLER|
ICENTRAL PROJECT OPERATIONS UNIT            OFfICE OF THE
ADMINISTRATOR
|= PUB-LI-C AAFFAIRS
MANAGEMENT SERVICES OFFICE
RESEARCH ANDI           
DEVELOPMENT              HEAD OPERATIONS BRANCH              CORPORATE SERVICES
BRAIICH                                                         BRANCH
pAGRICULTURAL RESEARtH|  |  BOAN6A RESEARCH|         tLEAAFAR IADINISTRATIVE|| FINANCIAL                |
& DEVELOPMENT DEPT.            CENTER                 DEPARTMENT      SERVICES DEPT.   SERVICES DEPT.
COCONUT EXTENSION          OPERATIONS PLANNING  IPCA SEEDGARDEN
TRAINING CENTER            & MANAGE   DEPT.-.
I  INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND
MARKET DEVELOPMENT BRANCH
ALBAY RESEARCHI            DAVAO RESEARCH
CENTER                     CENTER
MARKET RESEARCH   IMARKET DEVELOPMENT|  INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH
DEPARTMENT            DEPARTHENT          NAMANAGEMENT DEPT.
11 PCA ADINISTRATIE
REGIONAL OFFICES 



- 66-                           CHART 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 2. Field Operations Branch - Organisation Chart
FIELD OPERATIONS
BRANCH
PCA SEEDGARDEN             OPERATIONS PLANNING &
DIVISION                MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
COCONUT EXTENSION |                 FIELD OPERATIONS
. TRAINING CENTER                      DIVISION
LOGISTICS SERVICES
DIVISIONI
TRAINING  DIVISION                          DV
OPERATIONS STATISTICS
PUBLICATION &   _                            DIVISION
INFORMATION
DIVISION
SEEDGARDEN AND
SEED CONTRACTS
DIVISION
REGIONAL OFFICESI
RE10GIOA ADMINISTRATOR
PROVINCIAL COCONUT DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS
(PCDO)
EXTENSION STAFF
(MCDOs & ATPs)



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2 1986R
12(?                 121C~~012
1 16                          1 20                        124                             S
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~P H I L I P P I N E S
_ 20        =                                    SMALL COCONUT FARMS20
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Airports                                             Non Coconut CGrowing
Provinces
Roads                      -    ApuAri           *  PCA  Regional Offices
--  Railroads          Loag                         *  PCA  Research Centers
,     Nationalr     
WCapital
International            o--                         PCA  Region Boundaries
Boundaries
San   .  ) \   AAGAN
Fernando,{
8A"C -  f      t-    KILOMETERS 0         100   200   300
_  tZ3 q _ q / v * | |S n           -|                    I  t U
M     OLES 0    so   100  100  200
MANILA               /- .",:,
0~                                                                                     0 
It                  t EGASPI
C?  ~       '-  I J 7/ Ci/ -W  SW
PUOftO
Princesa
KON                      ,AMBOANGA
PORT
PHILIPPINES
VIET BRUW.J
NAM
MALAYSIA
'I N D 0   F S I A             C       t20            t24
120A 21?2o
APRIL 1990



