Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20213
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-32040; SCL-3204A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 121.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SMALL COCONUT FARMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 6, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
1 pesos = US$ 0.0245
US$ 1.00 = 40.85
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADC          Ayala Agricultural Development Corporation
ARDB          Agricultural Research and Development Branch (PCA)
BSPC          Begumbayan Seed Production Center
CDO           Coconut Development Officer
CSPC          Coconut Seed Production Center (Aroman)
DA            Department of Agriculture
DBM           Department of Budget and Management
DRC           Davao Research Center
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FOB           Field Operations Branch (PCA)
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GOP           Government of the Philippines
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
LGU           Local Government Unit
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (UK) - now DFID
PCA           Philippine Coconut Authority
PTAL          Plant Tissue Analysis Labatory
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SZOPAD        Special Zone of Peace and Development
ZRC           Zamboanga Research Center
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay K. Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager/Director:    Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Syed Husain, EASRD



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 22
Annex 3. Economnic Costs and Benefits                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                30
This docment has a rericte  dist ibutio   and may be used by recipients only in the
pe1form ace of their offici  duties.   s   ontes may not odrwise be disclosed without
World Bak  titio.






Project ID: P004552                                       Project Name: COCONUT FARMS DEVT.
Team Leader: Syed Husain                                  TL Unit. EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 6, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: COCONUT FARMS DEVT.                            L/C/TF Number: CPL-32040;
SCL-3204A
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sectorlsubsector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing; AP - Perennial
Crops
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/09/88                                Effective: 09/14/90            11/14/90
Appraisal:  06/14/89                                  MTR:
Approval:  05/24/90                                Closing: 06/30/96             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: R.P./PHILIPPINES COCONUT AUTHORITY
Other Partners: ODA (UK) - now DFID
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Rolando Arrivillaga
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey B. Fox                            D.M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader at ICR:   Syed Husain                               David Meadows
ICR Primary Author:   J.H. Weatherhogg (FAO)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to launch a long-term program of coconut development and productivity
improvement, supported by the necessary infrastructure and strengthened technical and support services; to
increase the incomes of small-scale coconut farmers by improving coconut yields and copra quality; and to
boost foreign exchange earnings by ensuring an increasing and reliable supply of higher quality copra for
processing and the export market.
As described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the coconut sub-sector in the Philippines was of
considerable importance. Coconuts covered over 25% of the cultivated area, and coconut-based products
were the third largest foreign exchange earner, accounting for 10% of total value of exports and 40% of the
agricultural exports. Furthennore, the small-scale coconut farmers were a major poverty group in the
country, with a poverty incidence of 75%. Investment in the coconut sub-sector under the project was thus
aimed at benefiting a large section of the rural poor while also increasing the productivity of the coconut
sub-sector and increasing foreign exchange earnings.
The sub-sector suffered from a steadily increasing proportion of coconuts over-age or senile, lack of
fertiliser application, and poor processing resulting in low quality copra production. A levy had been made
on copra sales over the period 1973 to 1982, but was suspended after controversies arose relating to its
operation. Only a part of the levy collected was used for schemes benefiting coconut farners. In 1987, the
new Govermment reaffirmed interest in a long-term smallholder coconut development program. The project
was prepared and appraised over the period 1988-90.
The project's objectives were clear and focussed on a sub-sector of major importance to the economy and
one that included around half a million families living in poverty. It was, therefore, fully sensitive to the
borrower's needs and development priorities. The basic project design was simple, and the project was not
perceived at appraisal as being particularly risky.
3.2 Revised Objective:
T'he project's objectives remained unchanged throughout the extended implementation period.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was intended as the first phase of a long-term small coconut farms development program with a
20-year target of replanting some 743,000 ha of senile coconuts and rehabilitation of about 418,000 ha of
low-yielding palms. The components of the project were: (i) establishment of seed gardens and nurseries to
produce high-yielding hybrid coconut seedlings, which would, at full capacity, sustain a replanting program
of about 50,000 ha/year; (ii) replanting with selected tall seedlings (9,600 ha) and hybrids (15,400 ha),
including provision of inputs for inter-cropping during the first three years of replanting; (iii)rehabilitation
of 348,000 ha of middle-aged palms through application of fertilizers for four consecutive years; (iv)
nutrient support (fertilizers) for some 50,000 ha of immature palms established over the previous ten years
under various schemes sponsored by the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA); (v) copra quality
improvement through equipping of an existing laboratory in Manila for aflatoxin assay and establishment
of a second regional copra quality control laboratory in Cebu; support for a pilot scheme to introduce
hot-air copra dryers to smallholders in 2 or 3 major mill catchment areas; and provision of technical
assistance and training; and (vi) institutional strengthening of PCA through additional staff, vehicles and
equipment, improved premises for six regional offices, technical assistance, training, strengthening of the
Coconut Extension Training Center, and upgrading of PCA's coconut research program.
-2 -



The components were generally well related to the project's objectives. The project was targeted to small
coconut farmers owning no more than 10 ha and aimed to ensure equity and to maximise number of
beneficiaries by limiting project-supported replanting to one ha (later increased to two ha) and
rehabilitation to three ha per farmer.
3.4 Revised Components:
With the exception of the copra quality improvement component, for which the pilot program was not
implemented, the general design of the components remained as set out at appraisal.
3.5 Quality at Entpy:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, since the project was in line with Government policies and
strategy. The project's commodity focus was in response to the erratic and declining exports of coconut oil
from the Philippines in the 1980s, and the need to re-establish confidence among end-users in the future
supply of better quality coconut products vis-a-vis supply of substitutes like palm kernel oil from other
countries. The project thus appropriately sought to have an immediate production impact through
rehabilitation (fertilisation) of mature coconut trees, and to increase coconut production and land use
efficiency in the long term through replanting with high-yielding hybrid varieties. However, there were
some questionable aspects of quality at entry: (i) the project targets for replanting and rehabilitation were
too ambitious within the five-year time frame for implementation, considering the lack of previous
experience of PCA in handling a program of this mnagnitude, uncertainties of seed nut supply, and lack of
adequate field staff; (ii) the choice given to farmers of cover crops or inter-crops for the replanting
component was inappropriate: cover cropping is an essential element of success in cultivation of tree crops.
In Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, developing oil palm and rubber without a legume cover crop will
never be considered. Only in the later part of project implementation was cover cropping made mandatory;
(iii) indicators and procedures for monitoring and evaluation of project impact were undefined; and (iv)
while rehabilitation of mature palms was the main project component in terms of investments, there was no
discussion in the SAR of post-rehabilitation activities for sustainability of the component. It was only in
1998 that the post-rehabilitation policy and techniques were developed.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementofobjective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory as the project was reasonably successful in achieving its
objectives. However, there was a delay of about four years in project implementation. Performance was
poor in the first five years. By June 1996, the original loan closing date, disbursement was only about 40%
of the Bank loan, replanting 36% of the appraisal target (actually lower since many of the replantings were
later discarded due to poor quality), and rehabilitation of mature palms 29% of the target. This was due to
multiple problems including inadequate field staff, an acute shortage of hybrid seed nuts, insufficient
counterpart funds, poor project management, delays in fertiliser procurement and distribution, etc. The
project remained a "problem project" from late 1993 to mid-1997. A major turnaround effort after June
1996, using six-monthly action plans, led to achievement of most project outputs by loan closing in
December 1999. Substantial progress has now been made in initiating a long-term coconut development
program, and small coconut farm productivity and incomes have risen (sections 4.2 and 4.4). If all project
farmers continue to apply inorganic and organic fertilizers to their replanted and rehabilitated farms,
incremental copra production from the project in year 2004 is estimated at 382,000 tons (valued at US$128
million in 1999 constant terms), compared to 405,000 tons expected at appraisal. If all project farmers
stop using inorganic fertilizers, incremental production will be about 90,000 tons per annum (valued at
US$30 million). About half of the project benefits accrued to the Special Zone for Peace and Development
areas in Mindanao, which have been receiving a high priority by the Govemment and the Bank in recent
-3 -



years for development assistance. A major issue at project completion is the lack of consensus in the
Government regarding the precise elements of the long-term coconut development program to be followed,
which could build on and expand the project's main accomplishments (see firther section 6.1).
4.2 Outputs by components.
Seed Gardens and Nurseries. Perforrnance on this component was uneven. At appraisal, it was expected
that five seed gardens would be established - one by PCA and four by the private sector. However, only
one private seed garden, owned by the Ayala Agricultural Development Corporation (AADC) in Mindanao,
was contracted and that also in 1996, after the original loan closing date. The seed garden, using an
existing 200 ha plantation of tall palms to produce hybrid seeds, had an average annual production
potential of around 2 million seed nuts, sufficient to replant an area of 8,000 ha. The production was a
difficult undertaking because of the height of the palms (10 meters), which hampered quality control,
resulting in a higher than normal rate of off-types during the first two years of production. In its three
years of production (through June 2000), the AADC seed garden would have produced about 4.9 million
nuts, enough to plant 20,000 ha of hybrid coconuts. The PCA seed garden developed at Aroman in
Mindanao has had a number of problems, particularly relating to security and squatters. As a result, it has
been possible to develop only 234 ha of the 303 ha originally planned. Despite these difficulties, the garden
is now expected to deliver some 0.9 million seed nuts in 2000 (sufficient to plant 3,750 ha), and, at full
development in 2002-2003, should have an annual production of some 1.8 million seed nuts (stifficient to
plant 7,500 ha). Both seed gardens have suffered very badly from drought resulting from El Nifio. Seed
nut production at AADC fell by over 50% in 1999, while production at Aroman stopped almost entirely.
Nursery development has been in conformity with the annual replanting program. However, management of
the nurseries and the quality of seedlings produced are still among the weakest points in the field operations
of PCA. The condition of the nurseries varies greatly from Region to Region. In some Regions, most of
the recommended nursery techniques are not applied. The main problems observed are: absence of
planning, poor seedbed management, lack of irrigation facilities, half-filling of the polybags, insufficient
seedling selection, and poor overall maintenance. On the other hand, some nurseries have now reached a
very good quality level, with a high rate of germination and excellent homogeneity of the seedlings
produced. This quality improvement has not been lost on the farmers who are now keen to avail of such
planting material, and some of whom are even prepared to buy it. In the post-project period, PCA should
continue to focus on nurseries as show-windows of its technical know-how.
Replanting. The replanting component has had a mixed implementation experience. In total, some 25,680
ha was replanted, compared with an appraisal target of 25,000 ha. However, due to a severe drought in
1992/93 and another in 1998, and the poor quality of seedlings distributed in early project years, the extent
of replanted area surviving at project completion is estimated at around 19,300 ha (77% of the appraisal
target), of which hybrids accounted for 16,100 ha and talls 3,200 ha (Annex 1).
In the last three years of the project, a concerted effort was made to improve the quality of seedlings, and
criteria for the selection of eligible farmers were changed (earlier, only agronomic suitability of the land
was considered for replanting). This has resulted in much better survival of replantings, as demonstrated
by the second replanting survey conducted in late 1999.
-4 -



The progress made with cover-cropping and inter-cropping of replanted areas was unsatisfactory, as only
2,268 ha was cover-cropped (in 1999), and only 5,586 ha inter-cropped (mostly in 1999). The low
proportion of cover-cropping and inter-cropping (12% and 29%, respectively, of the area replanted) was
due to non-release of funds by PCA in earlier years for a variety of reasons, including cash flow problems.
Although under-planting (that is, planting coconuts under the old ones which are felled at a later stage, all
at once or staggered) was allowed in the last years of the project on an experimental basis, no
under-planting had been reported by the end of 1999.
Rehabilitation of Low-Yielding Palms The targets set at appraisal have been largely achieved by the end
of the implementation period, as shown in the following table (ha receiving fertiliser applications):
4 applications  1 3 a Dlications  1 2 a Dlications   I application  | Total
I ..       ...................... hectares .............................................
ApRraisal target          80.000          88,000           100,000         - 80.000        348 000
Actual achievement        155300    1 130700               28.400            62 400       1 406.800 I/
1/ If only areas which have received at least 2 applications are considered, the total area is about 344,400 ha.
Generally, implementation of the component has been satisfactory. Single fertilisers were procured, and
farmers were required to mix them before application in the field. Due to this premixing, and the fact that
the mixture included sodium chloride, which may be toxic for most other crops, the diversion of fertilisers
to other crops appears to have been prevented. However, two criticisms were made during project
implementation on the project policy relating to fertiliser use: emphasis on inorganic fertilisers rather than
organic fertilisers, and procurement of single rather than compound fertilisers. Regarding the first
criticism, a high dosage of mineral fertilisers (an average of 4.5 kg/palm/year) was clearly required to
rehabilitate mature unfertilised coconuts. The four-year application period was necessary to allow build-up
of the nutrient content of the soil back to an appropriate level of fertility before entering the
post-rehabilitation period with reduced inputs. Regarding the second criticism, compound fertilisers are
more expensive than single fertilisers (Peso 350 per bag of 50 kg against Peso 250/bag), and their
manufacturing and use presupposes a known given balance among nutrients, which in reality does not exist
over large coconut areas.
As regards the impact of rehabilitation on copra yields, the two rehabilitation impact studies carried out in
1997 and 1999 confirm the favourable outcome. The reported yields exceed appraisal expectations. Yields
on a large representative sample of mature local talls rehabilitated from 1991 onwards, as reported in the
1997 study (which interpreted yield data collected by the PCA's Coconut Development Officers), went up
on average from 1,032 kg/ha of copra before rehabilitation to 1,521 kg/ha after one year, 1,756 kg/ha after
two years, 1,855 kg/ha after three years, and 2,136 kg/ha after four years. The 1999 study (which was
based on a survey of a representative sample of farmers, and relied on the information supplied by the
farmers rather than on yield measurements) reported an average yield level of 1,770 kg/ha of copra on
rehabilitated farms, compared to 872 kg/ha before rehabilitation. These reported yield increases are
significantly higher than that estimated at appraisal (700 kg/ha and 1,467 kg/ha of copra before and after
rehabilitation, respectively). One uncertain factor is the effect of El Nifto on the yields obtained. As a
result of the drought, nut production was well down in 1998 and 1999 when the second impact assessment
was made. That assessment reported a decline in average yields on rehabilitated farms to 1,312 kg/ha and
1,169 kg/ha of copra 2-3 years and 3-4 years after rehabilitation, respectively, which corresponds to 1998
and 1999, respectively.
-5 -



An issue for yield sustainability during post-rehabilitation is the farmers' ability and willingness to continue
to apply inorganic fertilisers to their rehabilitated coconuts (further details are in para. 6.1(b)). PCA
extension advice in earlier years was to apply organic fertilisers to sustain yields. While it is important to
maintain a good level of organic matter in the soil, regular inorganic fertiliser applications are essential to
compensate the loss of nutrients taken away with the crop, and to sustain the yield. This has been
consistently proved in trials conducted by PCA. A post-rehabilitation extension program (not developed at
appraisal) was launched in 1998. It included inter alia a leaflet for 350,000 farmers and farrmer training
on recommendations relating to fertiliser use and cultural practices in the post-rehabilitation period.
Essentially, the post-rehabilitation extension drive was aimed at motivating farmers to use inorganic
fertilisers, at application rates lower than that used for rehabilitation, supplemented with organic fertilisers,
including coconut husks and other organic material or compost. Intensification of the extension program is
needed in the post-project period. It is also important that PCA adopt the recommended post-rehabilitation
techniques on its own plantations and research centers, and establish demonstration plots on selected
farmers' fields.
Nutrient Support to Immature Palms. During implementation, it was found that the area of immnature
palns requiring additional fertilisation was less than that estimated at appraisal - largely due to poor
survival of some of the earlier plantings. The total area finally treated was some 21,000 ha, compared with
a target of 50,000 ha at appraisal.
Copra Quality Improvement. At the time of project appraisal, aflatoxin level in copra meal was a big
issue in view of the anticipated tightening of the import regulations of the European Community. Over the
first two years of the project, the ODA (now DFID)-funded technical assistance was very useful and
laboratory equipment for copra quality testing was provided. However, analysis revealed that the hot air
dryers were economically unviable. Given the excess milling capacity, the competition among copra buyers
was strong, thus undermining the development of a quality-based pricing system for copra. The pilot
program for hot air dryers was, therefore, not introduced, and no Bank loan disbursernent for the
component (which accounted for 5.5% of total project cost and 3.6% of Bank loan) was made (see further
Co-financier's Comment in Section 9).
Institutional Strengthening of PCA. The support for institutional strengthening envisaged at appraisal
was largely implemented. It did not prove possible for PCA to build up the number of extension staff- the
Coconut Development Officers (CDOs) - to over 1,300 expected at appraisal (the actual total was about
1,000), and no staff were seconded from the Department of Agriculture (DA). Infrastructure improvements
were made as planned (Annex 1) but with a delay that was extremely disappointing, particularly for the
plant tissue analysis laboratory (PTAL), which became operational only in November 1999. With the
PTAL, PCA can now have an annual program of leaf sampling to improve its fertiliser recommendations
for coconuts (PTAL should also offer its services to public and private sector customers, and thus strive to
be self-financing). However, to complement the PTAL analyses, and to calibrate the fertiliser dosage
recommended on the basis of leaf analysis results, a network of fertiliser reference trials in the main
coconut growing areas is also needed.
The project's staff training program was successfully implemented (Annex 1). Technical assistance
provided by ODA amounted to about 37 months. As for the research sub-component, two research
proposals were submitted by PCA in 1998 and agreed by the Bank. The first research would have lasted
three years, and would have directly assisted in the design of diversified coconut-based farming systems
under the long-term coconut development program of PCA. The second research would have lasted two
years, and would have contributed to Integrated Pest Management on coconut through control of damages
by the Oryctes beetle and the red weevil. Due to slow decision-making in PCA, only the second research
proposal was partly implemented by project completion.
- 6-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ERR for the whole project, assuming that all farmers continue to apply fertilisers at the recommended
rates after project completion, and using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 1.0 for labor and other
non-tradeables, is re-estimated at 32%, compared to 40% at appraisal. The NPV is Peso 7.2 billion,
discounted at 10%, and Peso 3.3 billion, discounted at 15%. With a SCF of 0.9 for non-tradeables (as
assumed at appraisal), the ERR improves to 39%. Since the main project investment was in fertilisers,
which resulted in a rapid increase in yields and production, a relatively high rate of return is to be expected.
A sensitivity analysis carried out shows that, even if all fanners discontinue applying inorganic fertilizers
after project completion, the ERR would remain at 32%, although the NPV at 10% and 15% discount
rates will decline to Peso 4.3 and 1.9 billion, respectively. The ERR remains unchanged because the
reduced cost of labor and fertilizers, and the residual favorable effect of fertilizer application under the
project on copra yields in the first few years after the project, neutralize the adverse effect of the eventual
decline in yields in later years of project life.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Incremental net returns per ha and per family labor day, estimated at project completion, are quite
attractive (Annex 3). In particular, the incremental net return of Peso 8,590/ha from rehabilitation of
mature palms is very significant, considering that less than Peso 600/ha is needed to buy inorganic
fertilisers and thereby sustain post-rehabilitation yields. For replanting with hybrids, the incremental return
of Peso 19,042/ha at full development does not include an income of Peso 60,000/ha from sale of logs
immediately after palms are felled for replanting. The average net returns per family labor day, ranging
from Peso 834 for replanting with local tails to Peso 1,235 for replanting with hyrbrids, are also very
attractive, compared to the prevailing wage rate of about Peso 100 per day.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project impact on institutional development of PCA has been positive and significant: (i) the establishment
of the Aroman seed garden has provided valuable technical experience to PCA in operating a fairly
large-scale planting material production facility; (ii) the project helped bring two of the Branches of PCA -
the Field Operations Branch and the Agricultural Research and Development Branch - closer, although a
lot of team spirit between the two Branches still needs to be fostered; (iii) the concerted efforts made during
the last years of the project to improve nursery management have resulted in establishment of some
nurseries of high quality, although furither improvement in many Regions is clearly required; (iv) the
technical basis for the long-term coconut development program was firmly established under the project
through formulation of revised selection criteria for farmers eligible for the replanting program; through
preparation of the Techno-Guides on Replanting and Rehabilitation, Advisory Guide for PCA
Agriculturists for Post-Rehabilitation, and Post-Rehabilitation Guide for the farmers involved in the
rehabilitation program; and through the training of farmers and PCA staff on application of these
techno-guides; (v) PCA developed some skills in handling the process of procurement, transport and
distribution of large quantities of fertilisers annually, although a couple of Regions were unable to handle
the process efficiently; (vi) the two impressive replanting surveys undertaken by PCA staff in 1997 and
1999 to determine the quality of replantings provided a valuable experience to PCA in carrying out
high-quality monitoring and evaluation activities to assist management in taking corrective action; and (vii)
the establishment of PTAL has provided a sophisticated instrument to PCA to help refine its fertiliser
recommendations. Although strengthening of the Small Coconut Farmers' Organizations (SCFOs) was not
an explicit objective of the project, the SCFOs acquired considerable experience under the project in
organizing and managing replanting and rehabilitation programs.
-7 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Natural disasters have significantly affected the project. In particular, there was a severe drought attributed
to El Nifno in 1998, which had a severe adverse impact on coconut production and coconut seed garden
output. Civil disturbance has also been a problem in some locations, and has created difficulties for the
PCA Aroman seed garden in Mindanao.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Government compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory, but allocation of counterpart funds was
frequently inadequate, and Government support was not given to secondment of DA staff to work in the
field for PCA. Moreover, the long-term coconut development program and its financing arrangements were
not prepared until 1997, and even now, there is no consensus among the central agencies on the precise
elements of the long-term program to be pursued.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were several significant factors under the control of PCA, which were not addressed effectively and
which consequently delayed project implementation and reduced its benefits: (i) for the replanting
component, inadequate attention to the technical standards of nursery management and to farmer selection
criteria in the early years of the project resulted in a significant net reduction in the replanted area; (ii) fund
releases for cover-cropping and inter-cropping of replanted areas were unduly delayed, thus undermining the
benefits of the component; (iii) weak monitoring arrangements for fertiliser transport and distribution and
lack of decisive and prompt action resulted in a huge backlog of undistributed fertilisers in at least two
Regions, and undermined the benefits of the rehabilitation component; and (iv) serious problems in
management of the infrastructure component resulted in an enormous delay in its implementation, and
consequently prevented the benefits, particularly of PTAL, from being realised during project
implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost at completion is estimated at US$146.2 million or about 95% of the appraisal estimate of
US$154.7 million (excluding hired labor cost financed by farmer beneficiaries). The cost saving in dollar
terms was due to the significant depreciation of the Peso 1/. In Peso terms, and excluding hired labor cost,
there was an overall cost overrun of about 18% (Peso 4.5 billion at project completion, compared to Peso 3.8
billion at appraisal), which consisted of an overrun of 37% in Government counterpart contributions (Peso
1. I and 0.8 billion at completion and appraisal, respectively), and an overrun of 10% in Bank loan proceeds
(Peso 3.3 and 3.0 billion at completion and appraisal, respectively). Expenditure on the rehabilitation
component was significantly higher than expected at appraisal (Annex 2) due to larger area covered, and
PCA's operating costs were higher due to the extended project implementation period. The total Bank loan
disbursed was US$108.2 million, or 89% of the original loan amount of US$121.8 million. US$10.9 million
had been canceled earlier, and the remaining US$2.7 million was canceled on May 11, 2000.
1/ From Peso 22 per US$ in July 1989 to Peso 40.85 per US$ in March 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.! Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is not an issue, since even in the adverse scenario where all project farmers discontinue
applying inorganic fertilizers, the returns on investments are not appreciably affected and the NPV and ERR
remain very attractive (para. 4.3). However, to maximize farmer incomes by maintaining post-project yields
at a high level, continued application of inorganic along with organic fertilizers would be needed:
- 8 -



(a) The funding required to provide fertilizers for the replantings undertaken in the last few
years of the project is quite small. For the year 2000, the fertilizers already procured in 1999 (and being
distributed now), the carry-over funds from 1999, and the Peso 50 million allocation in the approved 2000
budget to sustain the project are adequate to take care of the fertilizer, seed nut and nursery requirements of
the replantings under the project. As for year 2001 and later, the Government and PCA appear to be
committed to the replanting program.
(b) As regards prospects for continued fertilization of rehabilitated areas, the issue was studied
in some depth as part of the second rehabilitation impact survey undertaken in 1999. The results of the
survey show that (correcting for some obvious data errors), of all the farmers whose farms had been
rehabilitated under the project (four applications of fertilizers), 45% were using organic fertilizers after
rehabilitation, 10% were using inorganic fertilizers, 8% were using both organic and inorganic fertilizers,
and 37% were not using any fertilizers at all. The proportion of farmers using either inorganic or both
organic and inorganic fertilizers is fairly high in the provinces of Agusan del Sur (54%), Agusan del Norte
(50%), and Antique (49%). These survey results contradict the general impression so far that farmers in the
Philippines do not use inorganic fertilizers for coconuts, although in six of the 24 provinces surveyed, less
than 10% of farmers use inorganic or both organic and inorganic fertilizers, with four provinces showing
close to zero usage. It is possible that the demonstration of yield increases from rehabilitation under the
project has induced some farmers to use inorganic fertilizers and many farmners to use organic fertilizers.
There could be many reasons for the relatively low usage of inorganic fertilizers by farmers, including
inconsistent extension messages from PCA, and farmers' expectations of more fertilizer distribution on a
grant basis (the rehabilitation survey results show that, of the farmers not using fertilizers on rehabilitated
farms, 45% did so because they were waiting for a free supply of fertilizers from PCA). Addressing the
above factors could result in a lot more farmers using inorganic or both inorganic and organic fertilizers in
the future. Apart from the direct use of fertilizers for coconuts discussed above, one should also consider the
indirect effects on coconut yields of the usage of fertilizers on inter-crops. The second rehabilitation impact
survey results show that 91% of farmers use inter-cropping on rehabilitated farms, and all of them use
fertilizers (58% inorganic, 36% organic, and 6% both). This means that coconut on 58% of the rehabilitated
farms is indirectly benefiting from the use of inorganic or both inorganic and organic fertilizers for
inter-crops. When one adds the direct use of fertilizers for coconuts to the indirect benefit from fertilized
inter-crops, the prospects for relatively high post-project rehabilitation benefits appear reasonably good.
However, PCA should intensify its post-rehabilitation extension and demonstration programs (Section 4.2,
page 6).
The project was intended to be the first phase of a long-term (20-year) coconut development program. A
program had been prepared in 1997 and the Government had committed to the Bank to find adequate funding
for it 2/. The precise committed amount has not yet been provided. However, this issue affects expansion of
project activities rather than their sustainability. If a follow-on Tree Crops Project, which is currently being
conceptualized and discussed among Government agencies, materializes, a long-term coconut development
programn is likely to be its major component. Moreover, a compromise proposal to unlock the considerable
accumulated levy funds is now being worked out by the Government. If this happens, funding of a long-term
coconut development program, which is likely to include expansion of some of the important activities
initiated or completed under the project, will cease to be an issue.
2/ Letter from the then Secretary, Department of Agriculture, to the Bank, dated May 12, 1997: ".. .1 am pleased to inform you
that the Philippine Government through the Department of Agriculture in coordination with the Departmnent of Budget and
Management commits to raise P450 M a year or such amount as may be necessary to fund the critical minimum of the Long Term
Coconut Development Plan beginning Year 2000 - 2013."
- 9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
It is essential for PCA to prepare a Project Operation Plan (POP), which should include the operation of
the Aroman seed garden, nurseries and the PTAL, and intensification of the post-rehabilitation program. It
is also important that indicators of project sustainability be agreed with the DA and other central agencies,
and future M&E work focus on these indicators. Some suggested indicators are: (i) annual production of
hybrid seed nuts in PCA-managed and private seed gardens, and the annual replanting with hybrids; (ii)
quality of replantings in terms of survival rate of seedlings planted, growth as measured by collar girth, and
copra yield/ha in areas coming into production (this monitoring can be done by conducting replanting
surveys similar to those conducted in 1997 and 1999 by PCA staff); and (iii) copra yield/ha, and use of
organic and inorganic fertilisers on coconuts and inter-crops in rehabilitated areas (this analysis should be
done through sample surveys conducted by independent consultants).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Through identification, preparation and appraisal, Bank performance was generally satisfactory. However,
project targets for replanting and rehabilitation could have been more realistic in the light of risks which
had already been perceived by appraisal. Moreover, the Bank should have assisted PCA in locating private
sector seed gardens early in the project, given the uncertainties relating to the Aroman seed garden.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision by the Bank was regular, appropriately staffed and generally constructive and
supportive of project implementation. The Bank agreed to four extensions of the loan closing date, which
is a rare practice in the Bank. The Bank also assisted PCA in organising the workshop on Coconut-Based
Farming Systems in June 1997, when the issue of inter-cropping was discussed in detail. Several changes
in project policies followed the workshop, including increase in allowable replanting per farmer from one to
two ha, making of cover-cropping mandatory for replanting, increase in maximum entitlement per farmer
for inter-cropping and cover-cropping assistance, increase in the budget for nurseries, etc. The Bank also
agreed in February 1999 to the Government's request to increase the disbursement percentage for
Incremental Operating Cost from 25% to 90%, in line with the Bank's new policy to assist the Philippines
in overcoming the counterpart funding problem resulting from the Asian financial crisis. The Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) included this project in the first Rapid Supervision Assessment (FY97),
and gave highly satisfactory rating to overall quality of supervision, focus on development impact, and
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes, and satisfactory rating to supervision of fiduciary aspects
and realism of project performance ratings.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Project objectives were relevant to the country's needs
and Government and Bank development priorities and strategy; project preparation and appraisal were
sensible and mostly pragmatic; and project supervision was sensitive, supportive and effective.
- 10-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation was mostly satisfactory. The ambitious size and scope of the project were reduced at
appraisal, and should have been reduced further.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
This is rated reasonably satisfactory. The main problems were inadequate counterpart funds and slow
releases of cash; extreme delay in producing a long-term coconut development program and its financing
plan (received by the Bank on May 12, 1997 instead of June 30, 1993 stipulated in the Loan Agreement);
delay in resolving land reform problems relating to the Aroman seed garden; and the inability of the DA to
release field staff on secondment to PCA, and the subsequent delay in allowing PCA to recruit the
necessary staff (the approval was finally given in mid-1995).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance was mixed but satisfactory overall. The significant areas where improved PCA
performance was possible are listed in para. 5.3 above. Moreover, PCA's accounting system remained
weak, resulting in suspensions and disallowances of some project expenditures by the Commission on
Audit. Progress on settling these suspensions and disallowances remained unsatisfactory until loan closing
because of lack of concerted initiatives by PCA.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance was satisfactory. The main problem was the extreme delay in preparing a
long-term coconut development program. This program still needs to be fimned up, agreed, and adequately
funded in the future.
8. Lessons Learned
*   A clear strategy and a development program for the coconut sub-sector are needed. Although a
long-term coconut development program had been prepared by an Inter-Agency Conmnittee of the
Government in 1997, there is a lack of consensus on the precise elements of the strategy and the
long-term program. This appears to be largely due to the controversy about a commodity focus as
opposed to a "holistic" approach. The case for a commodity focus arises due to the unique status of
coconuts in the Philippines (like that of rubber and oil pahn in Malaysia and Indonesia), the issue being
whether the Philippines should attempt to maintain its predominant position in world coconut exports
(which have earned US$0.8- 1.0 billion per annum for the country in recent years), particularly in view
of the rapid expansion of exports of substitutes (principally, palm kernel oil) by some other countries in
east Asia, and the threat that the end-users will switch to these substitutes due to lack of confidence in
coconut oil availability, thus reducing the Philippines' share of world lauric oils market. The issue is
linked to low productivity and unstable production which remain the main problem in the coconut
industry. If the Government objective is to retain the Philippines' predominance in coconut oil exports,
a commodity focus to any project or program for the sub-sector is unavoidable. Another issue to
consider is the technical (agronomic) constraint on viable inter-cropping in coconut areas due to the
shading problem: the closed canopy of mature coconuts does not provide enough light to ensure
reasonable yields for most inter-crops. These two issues - the competition faced by coconut oil from
substitutes in export markets, and the agronomic constraint of shading - need to be taken into account
seriously. Fortunately, because of the size of the sector (about 3 million ha), it is possible to have both
elements in a long-term coconut development program: a commodity focus in areas which are suitable
for high-yielding coconut and where farmers are interested in keeping coconut as the principal crop,
- 11 -



and a "holistic" approach in areas where farmers prefer to keep coconut as a secondary crop or to
diversify out of it to other profitable crops or uses. Replanting with potentially high-yielding hybrid
varieties (along with cover-cropping and inter-cropping in the initial years), as part of the long-term
program, would make it possible to obtain the same or higher production of copra on a much smaller
area, thus facilitating the release of significant areas now under low-yielding coconut to more profitable
crops or uses, and thus promote land use efficiency. To make this strategy work, the Coconut
Preservation Act (Republic Act 8048 of 1995) needs to be reviewed. Under the Act, the coconut
farmers are not allowed to diversify out of coconut to other crops, even if they are more profitable.
This is inherently contradictory to the "holistic" approach, which, by definition, should aim to
maximize farmers' income. The coconut farmers are the only group of farmers in the country who do
not have the freedom of choice to change their cropping pattern. This unfair and discriminatory
treatment should end, and a clear strategy and a development program based on full farmer freedom
should be formulated and implemented. Forging of a consensus on the strategy and a long-term
development program is the most difficult immediate challenge facing the Government for the effective
development of the coconut sub-sector.
*   In the perennial crops sub-sector, a single project can not address all major problems. Because of
the relatively long gestation period between planting and harvesting, and problems with the availability
of long-term fnance, tree crops development needs to be handled as a continuous program, rather than
through a single project.
-   Private sector role needs to be actively exploited. Project experience showed that when rapid
production of seed or other planting material is required, it is better to rely on contract services with the
private sector rather than attempting to establish a separate public sector facility.
*   Innovative financing mechanisms are usually needed in the perennial crops sub-sector. Because of
the long gestation period, both the shortage of long-termn finance and farmers' unwillingness to borrow
are common problems in planting and replanting of perennial crops. Such operations can be financed
on a grant basis from a cess levied on production or exports. However, due to the scandal surrounding
the coconut levy in the early 1980s, this option appears politically unfeasible in the Philippines at this
stage. As an alternative, cost-sharing arrangements between the public sector and the small coconut
farmers would need to be evolved to finance a long-term replanting program.
3   Commercialisation of coconut replanting is feasible. Project experience shows that when
high-quality coconut seedlings are available at reasonable prices, farmers are willing to buy the
seedlings. Because of the relatively high cost of planting material production at present, there is a need
for innovative mechanisms to reduce the cost without sacrificing the quality, and thus help develop a
market for hybrid seedlings.
*   Hybrids outperform tall coconuts. Project experience demonstrated that hybrids perform better than
tall coconut palms: they start producing earlier and produce more. Moreover, talls were found to be
no more tolerant than the hybrids to poor ecological and agricultural conditions. Even for resistance to
typhoons, some of the PCA hybrids have very thick trunks and may perform as well as the talls. For a
crop which will occupy the land for over 50 years, it is worth producing and using the best planting
material.
*   Project readiness at entry is critical to timely implementation. The deficient quality of the project
at entry into the portfolio due to uncertainties of seednut supply, lack of adequate field staff, undefined
procedures for fertilizer transport and distribution, and unclear M&E arrangements, seriously delayed
project implementation and undermined its benefits.
- 12 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
COMMENTS FROM PCA
Section 4.1. - On the issue of a long termn development program for the coconut industry, the PCA is
determined to implement the program prepared in 1997 but on a limited scope because of the uncertainty of
sustainable funding for the program. The current activities of the PCA is a combination of the banner
program "Maunlad Na Niyugan Tugon Sa Kahirapan" (Maunlad Program for brevity) which promotes the
adoption by the coconut farmers of an intensive integrated coconut based farming system and the
sustainability of the SCFDP which includes both replanting and fertilization programs.
With respect to the issue of the coconut farmers' ability to continue with the application of inorganic
fertilizers, many of the coconut farmers are willing to continue with the fertilization program. However,
they also express preference that the government continue to supply the fertilizers for free. With the
expected improvement in the earning capacity of the coconut farmers through the successful
implementation of the Maunlad Program, which seeks to ensure additional income for the farmers from the
intercropping and other agricultural and aquaculture activities in the coconut farms, the farmers will have
the capability to purchase the required inorganic and organic fertilizers for the coconut palms. And to
further increase farmers' awareness and receptiveness to the fertilization program, the PCA will intensify
post-rehabilitation activities as envisioned in the SCFDP.
The SCFDP has greatly helped the govermment's effort to sustain coconut production and alleviate the
living conditions of the coconut farmers. The importance and need for adequate funding whether from
international or foreign lending institution like the World Bank or internally generated funds (other than
government appropriation), is critical to the development of continued viability of the coconut industry. It
is for this reason that the PCA is looking at the implementation of the Small Tree Crop Diversification and
Development Project as a sustainable effort to pursue the gains and investments made under the SCFDP
and the tree crop sector as a whole.
Section 4.2, page 4. - The PCA is seriously considering the privatization of the seedgarden at Aroman,
Carmen, North Cotabato, if funding for the continued operation of the seedgarden becomes unavailable or
uncertain. In the meantime, the PCA has secured the assurance of the Secretary of Agriculture that the
operation of the Aroman Seedgarden will continue to receive support from the Department of Agriculture
("DA").
Further, to sustain the replanting program, the PCA is also looking at establishing mini-seedgarden of
about 50 hectares in each region, and later in strategic provinces within the region, to provide much needed
seedlings. In addition, the PCA has developed a synthetic variety ("synvar") of coconut which would allow
the farmers to directly plant the seednuts from the (synvar) coconut palms planted in the farms without the
need of setting up seedgarden.
Section 4.2, Page 4. - We agree that the condition of the nurseries varies from Region to Region and that
management and maintenance of the nurseries have not been satisfactory. However, as noted in the ICR,
the PCA has been upgrading its capability in managing and improving the condition of the nurseries. The
participation of the Agricultural Research and Development Branch (ARDB) has been strengthened and the
flow of funding for the nurseries will be facilitated to ensure the improvement in nursery maintenance.
- 13 -



Section 4.2, Page 5. - On inorganic (mineral) fertilizer vs. organic fertilizer, in SCFDP farms
(representative of selected Regions) which achieved only marginal to slight increase in yields, the ARDB in
1998 analyzed leaf samnples from said farms and found these deficient in either one or more micronutrients
(boron, zinc, manganese, copper) which indicates (i) the single fertilizers used did not optimize coconut
yields in at least 100,000 has. out of 406,800 has. fertilized due to micronutrient deficiency; (ii) the
combination of inorganic mineral fertilizers and organic fertilizers could insure sufficiency of both
macronutrients and micronutrients, considering that organic fertilizers, particularly chicken manure based
organic fertilizers, contain high concentration of micronutrients B, Zn, Cu, Mn and Fe. The application of
organic fertilizers is important not only as a source of micronutrients but also in farming sustainability
because they induce high productivity and restore or conserve the physical, fertility and biological
environment of coconut soils.
On application of single fertilizer vs. compound fertilizer, using the "cheaper" single fertilizer as against the
"'more expensive" compound fertilizer as the criterion in the selection of the proper fertilizer to apply,
without considering the preference of farmers to have "one fertilizer grade supplying all the nutrients"
required by coconut palms, does not contribute to sustainable coconut farming. In fact, the price of single
fertilizer is more expensive than compound fertilizer. Based on current local prices of single fertilizer (FPA
Report, February 2000), not on the SCFDP procurement price that is usually 10% lower because of
international competitive bidding, the cost per tree of 4.5 kg. fertilizer (1.5 kg. 21-0-0 + 2 kg. 0-0-60 + 1
kg. 0-20-0) is P26.10, while compound fertilizer (using the common 14-14-14 price of P395/50 kg. bag) at
different rates of application (i.e., 2 kg./tree = P15.8, 2.5 kg./tree = P19.75, 3.0 kg./tree = P23.70).
Further, while the single fertilizer has an application rate of 4.5 kg/tree/year, a compound fertilizer with
components of 14-5-20 + 0.2% borax, which also contains at least 15% Cl and 5% S, has a recommended
application rate of only 2 kg./tree/year, has clearly indicated by recent research findings of the PCA Davao
Research Center (please see attached information).
On a per hectare (100 trees/ha.), the total cost of single fertilizer (P26.10/tree) is higher at P2,610 as
compared to compound fertilizer (P1 5.80/tree per 2 kg. fertilizer or P23.70 per 3 kg. fertilizer) of only
1,580 (2 kg. fertilizer) or P2,370 (3 kg. fertilizer). The advantage of compound fertilizer as a cheaper
alternative to single fertilizer is evident from recent research finding that a balance nutrient (physiologically
based nutrient uptake of coconut) compound fertilizer containing 14-5-20 + 0.20% borax requires a lower
application rate than single fertilizer. A 50 kg. bag of three (3 ) single fertilizers combined can fertilize
only 11 coconut trees, while a 50 kg. bag of compound fertilizer can fertilize 16 to 25 trees.
Section 4.2, Page 6. The PCA is currently looking into other technology on copra drying.
Section 4.2, Page 6. The SCFDP funded two (2) officers of PCA in finishing their PhDs: Ms. Nemesia
San Juan Bachiller in the field of Plant Pathology, and Mr. Rolendio N. Palomar in the field of Wood
Science.
Section 4.2, Page 6. - Studies on leaf analysis with fertilizer trials conducted by PCA during the
FAO/UNDP support period (1972-78) reviewed by the IRHO Director for Research, Mr. M. Ollagnier,
show the reliability of PCA's use of leaf analysis to diagnose nutrient deficiencies in coconut farms in this
country and improvement in yield (30% to 300%) from the formulate site-specific fertilizer combinations.
Thus, even without a network of on-farm fertilizer trials, the knowledge and information generated by PCA
before the implementation of the SCFDP allow 80%-85% reliability of PCA-ARDB recommendation. It is
true that fertilizer recommendations based on field trials is the best method, but this is time consuming and
expensive. The PCA is using an acceptable and quicker tool - leaf analysis (not "trial and error method").
- 14 -



Moreover, the result of reference field trials is very location specific, in a Philippine environment
characterized by diversity of soils, climatic conditions and cropping systems.
Section 5.2. - The apparent absence of a definite long term program to sustain the SCFDP was largely due
to the uncertainty of funds to finance the major components of the project. Nevertheless, the present
administration is exerting great effort to secure sufficient funding to sustain the investment under the
SCFDP, i.e., operation of the seedgarden; replanting and fertilization. The PCA has received the
unqualified support of the Secretary of Agriculture in its effort to implement developmental projects and
programs for the coconut industry, such as the Maunlad Program and sustainability of the critical aspects
of the replanting and fertilization components of the SCFDP.
Section 5.3. - Please see comments on Section 4.2, page 4.
Section 7.6.- The majority of the suspensions and disallowances refer to transactions made and entered
into during the first seven years (1991 to 1998) of implementation of the SCFDP. Some of the transactions
or contracts involved are questionable while a few, but involving huge amounts, are the subject of court
proceedings for which the present administration is prevented from making any disposition without a
definite ruling of the courts exercising jurisdiction.
Section 8, Lessons Learned, Par. 1. - We totally agree that the coconut industry deserves a special focus
because of its strategic importance to the Philippine economy. The PCA is committed to maintain the
Philippine's predominant position in world coconut exports. With the Philippines' accession to the WTO
and a world economy marked by enhanced competition, it can ill afford to allow the collapse of the coconut
industry where it has a clear advantage. The PCA is committed to encourage private business participation
in the development of high value coconut products and by-products to further secure and enhance its
position in the world market for coconut products.
Section 8, Lessons Learned, Par. 1. We do not agree that the RA 8048 should be reviewed to give
farmers the freedom to diversify into other profitable crops. What are needed are (i) a more geographically
specific program for coconut production and (ii) intensive integrated coconut based farming system to
increase the income of coconut farmers. On the first requirement, the PCA and Department of Agriculture
has already identified specific agricultural zone where coconut productivity can be further increased and
sustained. Current efforts of the PCA is directed towards ensuring that production is increased and
improved varieties of coconut are available in these specific areas.
On the second requirement, the PCA has launched the Maunlad Program which encourage the
diversification of crops within the coconut farm with coconut as the main crop and provides additional
skills to the coconut farmers to improve their knowledge and capability in producing and marketing coconut
by-products and other agricultural crops and products.
Section 8, Lessons Learned, Par. 4. - We have been receiving positive feedback from the private sector
to share in the burden of financing a long term development project for the coconut industry. The possible
areas of convergence of public and private investments are the establishment and maintenance of
seedgardens and nurseries and development of post-harvest facilities and technology.
Yields Projections. - Based on PCA Zamboanga Research Center reports, from 12 years onwards, the
difference in the yield between tall varieties and hybrids is small. It is, therefore, possible that the yield of
local tall varieties has been underestimated.
-15 -



Attachment-I
EFFECTS ON COCONUT YIELD (30-YEAR OLD LAGUNA TALL VARIETY) OF THE
APPLICATION OF MINERAL FERTILIZER (14-5-20 PLUS 0.2% BORAX), 1993-98
PCA-DAVAO RESEARCH CENTER,BAGO OSHIRO, DAVAO CITY
Table 1. Annual Nut production (nuttree/year) as affected by Compound 14-5-20 + 0.2%
borax fertilizer
KG FERTILIZER                                 YEAR
(PER TREE/YEAR)         1993      1994     1995       1996      1997      19981
1                 55.40   115.00    116.00     116.60    100.30     87.20
2                 57.50   117.60    121.20     117.30    107.90     92.70
3                 59.80   122.00    116.20     116.20    104.00     89.77
AVERAGE               57.57   118.20     117.80    116.70    104.07     89.77
Est. nuts/haI20 tre s         6912   14.184     14136     14004      12.480    10.764
Table 2. Copra Weight (ginut)
KG FERTILIZER                                 YEAR
(PER TREE/YEAR)        1993       1994     1995       1996      1997      19981
1                  204      222        219       228        235       199
2                   213     227        218       226        234       190
4                   204      227       227       239        235       206
AVERAGE                 207     225        221       231        235       198
Table 3. Annual Copra Yield (per tree/year) as affected by Compound 14-5-20 + 0.2%
borax fertilizer
KG FERTILIZER            _                    YEAR       __ |
(PER TREE/YEAR)        1993       1994     1995       1996      1997      19981
1                 12.50    25.50     25.10      24.00     23.50     17.50
2                 12.20    26.90     26.30      26.50     25.60     17.60
4                 12.30    27.70     26.50      27.80     24.40     18.50
AVERAGE               12.33    26.70     25.97      26.10     24.50     17.87
Est. t copra/ha 0120 trees     1.47     3.20      3.10      3.13       2.93      2.13
affected by El Niflo                             Source: ISFM CBFS, PCA-DRC
-16-



Attachment 9
Chemical Analysis and Average Nutrient Contents of Chicken Manure from Some Sources in Philippines (1999)
URTADO FARM'    ILUMINADA           DOMINGO         ALABEL        TANAY
NUTRIENT             (Bago-Gallera,      FARM 2           FARM'         FARM2          FARM       AVERAGE         RANGE
DC)         (Bago-Gallera,  (Bago Saka,DC)    (Alabel,   (Tanay, Rizal)
DC)                         Sarangani)
MArRON ITERIFNT3
Total Nitrogen (%)                      2.93             3.06            0.89         1.15           2.47       2.10      0.89 -3.06
Total Phosphorus (%), P205              5.49             7.48            2.25         1.39           2.64       3.35      1.39 -7.48
lv Total Potassium (%), K20             2.87             6.79            1,57         3.05           1.20       3.10      1.20 - 6.79
Total Calcium (%), CaO                  7.54             6.64            0.80         9.07           2.67       5.34      0.80 - 9.07
Total magnesium (%), MgO                2.63             2.53            1.30         2.48           0.80       1.95      0.80 - 2.63
Sodium (%), Na                          1.17             1.21            0.50         1.76           0.21       0.97      0.21 -1.76
Chlorine (%), Cl                        0.76             1.37            0.39         0.47           0.20       0.64      0.20 -1.37
Sulfur (%), S                           0.86             2.72       (T)            (T)           (T)            0.90      (T) - 2.72
uMaomuIaRIn3
Boron (ppm), B 4                       46.00            52.00           14.00        15.00         100.00        45      14.00 - 100.00
Zinc (ppm), Zn                       1,489.00          651.00          345.00       210.00         253.00       589    210.00 -1,489.00
Copper (ppm), Cu                      222.00            86.00          143.00        42.00          88.00       116     42.00 - 222.00
Manganese (ppm), Mn                  5,581.00          481.00         1,718.00      571.00         207.00      1,711    207.00 - 5,581.00
Iron (ppm), Fe                      16,731.00        1,157.00        63,417.00    15,753.00     41,047.00     27,621   1,157.00 - 63,417.00
Moisture Content (%)                   15.10            13.10           18.90         7.80          14.20 _               7.80 -18.90
from Broilers    2from Layers           3 analyzed by dept. of Agriculture laboratories (BSWM and PCA)      (T) Trace or almost nil
Source (Magat, 2000)
- 17 -



Attachmnt-3
Estimated Fertilizer Cost:
Single Fetilizers and Compound Fertilizers
[                        {    Price LP) '      Average Rate         Cost/YearjP)
Fertilizer Material   Per 50 kg   Per kg   Per Tree/year      Per tree      Per Ha
baa                     (kg) 2
Sinale Fertilizer3
21-0-0 (Amosul)            220        4.4          1.5            6.60
0-0-60 (KCI)               350        7.0          2.0            14.00
0-20-0 (Solowhos)          275        5.5      1 1.                5.5
4.5           26.1         2610
O ComDound Fertilizer
14-14-14                   395        7.9          2.0            15.8         1580
2.5          19.75        1975
3.0          23.7         2370
1 FPA Fertilizer Price Monitoring, February 2000
2 @ 100 trees/ha
3 Note: 50 kg bag of combined 3 single fertilizers @ 4.5 kg/tree  I   11 trees
50 kq baq of combined fertilizer:    @ 2 kg/tree       25 trees
@ 3 kg/tree      16 trees
(b) Cofinanciers:
(Comments from Natural Resources International, Ltd, DFID)
The equipment installed in the existing aflatoxin laboratory in Quezon City has been very heavily used.
However, the quality control laboratory, which was located in Davao rather than Cebu, has not been used
to its full potential since the ending of the ODA-funded project. It was decided to locate the regional copra
quality control laboratory in Davao, because surveys conducted by the project revealed that aflatoxin levels
were highest in this region. Research fimnly established that practically all aflatoxin contamination
occurred during the initial two week period, following the splitting of the coconut. The high levels of
aflatoxin in Davao were associated with production of copra by sun-drying, whereas traditional smoke
drying imparted a resistance. Local oil mills subsequently changed policy, and promoted smoke drying
rather than sun-drying. A colour brochure summarising the research findings and entitled 'Save the
European Market: down with aflatoxin to 20 ppb in copra, copra cake and copra meal' was published. This
brochure, together with a colour flyer showing the yellow-green mould that produces aflatoxin, was used to
extend the Project's findings in all the major copra-producing regions. A revised regulation to implement
new copra classification standards (Administrative Order No. 01, series of 1991) was based on the research
findings and encouraged early drying and introduced a mould classification with associated premiums for
low mould and discounts for high mould levels. This new classification did not prove very effective early in
- 18-



the marketing chain, where it was needed most, due to adherence of primary traders to traditional trading
practices, and a shortage of supply which tended to reduce the effect of a quality-based pricing system. A
study tour delegation, headed by the Chairman of the PCA, visited the major European importers of copra
by-products and informed them of the actions being taken to meet the recently introduced aflatoxin limit
(20 pg/ kg). The irnporters were convinced that copra by-product produced in the Philippines could meet
the new regulation, and that the marginal increase in PAH levels due to increased use of smoke driers could
be removed at negligible cost during processing. The threatened loss of the valuable ($75 million in 1987)
European market for copra by-product was thus averted.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Launch a long-term program of coconut  N.A.                                  The project has initiated and laid the basis
development                                                                  for a long-term program.
Increase small coconut farm incomes:  Without project   With project         Without project        With project
P per ha                                 P per ha
(1988 Constant Terms)                   (1999 Constant Terms)
(a) Fertising mature local talls         4,370                6,857              6,766                 15,355
(b) Nutrient support for hybrids          2,146              12,044               6,164                17,436
(c) Replanting with hybrids               2,237              19,315               3,184                22,226
(d) Replantng with local talls           4,320               10,469               2,945                15,016
Increase copra producton:             Incremental tons in 2004               Incremental tons in 2004
405,000                                 382,000
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
Indct~Matu1~PIatP /J~                                   ~GuaULatt~tin
Seedgardens
Number                                  52
Area (ha)                               250 each                                 CSPC 303
AADC 200
Seed production                         4th Year 409,000                         9,353,795 (1)
5th to 6th year 1,336,000
Replanting
Tall area (ha)                          9600                                     3200
Hybrid area (ha)                        15400                                    16,100
RehabilBtaton
Mature palmis area (ha)                 348000                                   406,800
Immature palms area (ha)                50000                                    21,047 (2)
Insftitutonal
Number of staff recruited
Professional                            78                                       499 (3)
Support                                 683                                      387
Number of vehicles
Cars                                    72                                       139
Light trucks                            8
Tractors                                                                         7
Bus                                                                              I
Motorcycles                             1700                                     661
Motorized banca                                                                  5
Technical assistance man/months
ODA financed for CQ1                    97                                       36.5
Intemationlly recruited                 12 mosi/p.a.                             2
Staff Training (No.)
CDOs                                    1800                                     787
Overseas training
Study tours to ASEAN countries          50                                       3
Short-term couses                       5                                        35
Local Training
MSc courses                             1 0                                      8
Ph.D courses                            5                                        2
Short-term courses                      50                                       1447
Infrastructure
Number of buildings renovated           1                                        2
Number of new buildings                 4                                        4
Structures in CSPC                                                               10
(1) Aside from CSPC and AADC, production forcecast includes PCA DRC and ZRC, BSPC, WA and Tagnanan Talls assources of scednuts.
(2) The 21,047 ha was the eligible area found for the Nutrient Support Comiponent. There was an over-estimation at appraisal of the area needing
NS.
(3) Includes 455 contractual CDOs that were supposed to be seconided from the Department of Agriculture. The secondment did not miaterialize
because of devolution under the Local Government Code and transfer of the agriculturists from the DA to the Local Govemmient Units.
Note: The column 'Projected in last PSR' refers to projections in SAR.
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million uivalent)
Di i g rND~~~~~~S                                  ~
Replanting                                                           17.50                20.87                 90
Rehabilitation                                                       58.40               100.19                125
Nutrient Support                                                     15.50                 6.14                 30
Copra Improvement                                                     6.30                  1.30                21
Research                                                              4.70                 4.42                 74
Extension and Training                                                 5.30                4.04                 58
Institutional Strengthening                                            8.10                9.21                 89
Total Baseline Cost                                                 115.80               146.17
Physical Contingencies                                              10.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                                 28.90                 0.00
Total Project Costs                       154.70               146.17
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required                         154.70               146.17
Note:
(i) Appraisal total cost excludes hired labor cost of US$21.9 million equivalent, to be financed by farmer beneficiaries.
(ii) Actual/latest total cost excludes hired labor cost, financed by farner beneficiaries.
(iii) In the column 'Percentage at Appraisal', appraisal costs are inclusive of contingencies.
- 22 -



Prolect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         2.70            0.80           0.70           0.00            4.20
(2.50)         (0.70)         (0.60)         (0.00)          (3.80)
2. Goods                        105.10           0.80           9.40           0.50           115.80
(94.70)         (0.50)         (8.00)         (0.00)        (103.20)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.90           0.80            1.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.90)          (0.00)         (0.90)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          27.50           0.00           27.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.40)         (0.00)          (8.40)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           5.50           0.00            5.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.50)         (0.00)          (5.50)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           21.90          21.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                        107.80           1.60          44.00           23.20          176.60
_______________________    (97.20)    (1.20)        (23.40)         (0.00)         (121.80)
Note: The total cost of US$176.60 million includes hired labor cost of US$21.9 million equivalent, to be financed by farmer
beneficiaries.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00            1.36           1.49           0.00            2.85
(0.00)           (1.20)         (1.34)         (0.00)          (2.54)
2. Goods                         81.50           4.00          23.46           0.20           109.16
(81.50)         (1.20)         (5.00)         (0.00)         (87.70)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.21            1.00           2.21
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.21)          (0.00)         (1.21)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           29.25          0.00           29.25
(0.00)         (0.00)         (14.04)         (0.00)        (14.04)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           2.70           0.00            2.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.70)          (0.00)         (2.70)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         81.50           5.36           58.11           1.20          146.17
(81.50)         (2.40)        (24.29)         (0.00)        (108.19)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
-23 -



Project Financin  b  Com ponent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Civil Works                              3 ;80           0.40        _       __           2.54             0.31                          66.8        77.5        0.0
Equip. and Spare Parts                   3.50            0.10                             2.50             0.37                          71.4       370.0        0.0
Vehicles and Spare Parts                 5.10            0.10                             2.94             0.02                          57.6        20.0        0.0
Copra Improvement                        4.90            2.00             1.30            0.00             0.10            1.20           0.0        5.0        92.3
Research                                 0.30                                             0.00             0.00                           0.0        0.0         0.0
Extension and Training                   5.50                                             2.70             0.00                          49.1         0.0        0.0
Technical Assistance                     0.40                                              1.21            0.00                         302.5         0.0        0.0
Farm  Inputs                            89.90            10.00                           82.26            20.87                          91.5       208.7        0.0
Increm. Operating Costs                  8.40            19.00                            14.04           15.11                         167.1        79.5        0.0
Total                                   121.80           31.60            1.30           108.19           36.78             1.20         88.8       116.4        92.3
Note:
(i) Government financing at apparaisal of US$31.60 million excludes hired labor and local materials cost of US$21.9 rmillion, which was expected to be financed by farmer
beneficiaries. In addition, inmputed incremental family labor cost of USS33 million equivalent was estimated at appraisal
(ii) Government financing at project completion of US$36.78 mnillion excludes hired labor cost, financed by farmer beneficiaTies.
(iii) The cofinancier's contnbution of US$1.20 million equivalent atproject completion is by DFID (formerly ODA)/ Natural Resources Internaional Ltd, (E820,900, of
which 146,192 was for laboratory equiprment and two vehicles, and the rest for consultancies, training, a workshop and extension materials).
(iv) The costs of Research and Extension and Training in the above table are not comparable to those in the first table on Project Cost due to inclusion of civil works,
vehicles, equipment farm inputs and incremental operating costs in different components in the first table.
-24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Indicate Currency, units and base year)
l'   13 ERR  ~~26                18              31.347              19,042
Note: Th appraisal increment14  tns/hadNP  have 1b,28d                    12,071
10 0  ~53               39                4,565              8,589
;3;~~9             (Included wit.h       18,168             1 1,272
W iWKW l      Peso 997 Mill.  Peso 3,284 Mill.  n.a.          n.a.
S |  !  E  ~Peso 7,452 Mill  Peso 7,156 Mill.  n.a.        n.a.
^  iM  a  a       ~~~~40%            32% n.a.           n.a.
Nlote: 'Fhe appraisal incremental returns/ha and NPV have been converted to 1999 constant
terms using the consumer price index.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:.
Ste ofPrectCyce                     No. cfProe    n   ilty                     Perfor:* ce R ati 
(e.g. 2 cnmss    M4 t.                Ipeetto               vlpn
Identification/Preparation         2   TC, Ec                                S                 S
Jan. 88
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/July 89                  4   TC,Ec,FA,P                            S                 S
Supervision
Aug.90                         3  TC,L,Proc
Nov/Dec 90                     1  TC                                    S                HS
Jul-91                         2  TC,P                                  U                 S
Nov-91                         2  TC,C                                  S                HS
Aug/Sept. 92                   2  TC,C                                  S                 S
Jan/Feb 93                     2  TC,FA                                 S                HS
Aug/Sept. 93                   2  TC,C                                  U                HS
Jan/Feb 94                     1  TC                                    U                HS
Aug/Sept. 94                   2  TC,C                                  U                 S
Jan/Feb 95                     1  TC                                    U                 S
Aug/Sept.95                    2   TC,FA                               HU                 U
April/May 96                   3  Ec,AF,C                               U                 U
Mar/April 97                   3  Ec,AF,C                               S                 S
Oct. 97                        2  Ec,C                                  S                 S
Mar.98                         2  Ec,C                                  S                 S
Sept. 98                       3  Ec,C,FA                               S                 S
Mar. 99                        2  Ec,C                                  S                 S
Aug/Sept.99                    3  Ec,C, Proc                            S                 S
ICR
Feb.2000                      3   Ec (2) C                              S                 S
Speciality:    TC =   Tree Crops Specialist
Ec=   Economist
FA =   Financial Analyst
P  =   Processing Specialist
L  =   Loans Officer
Proc = Procurement Specialist
AF  = Accounts & Fin. Specialist
C   =  Coconut Specialist
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Prject Cycle                     AcLatest Estimate
No. Staff weekcs             USS (,1O)
Identification/Preparation               159.1                       206.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    119.2                        153.5
Supervision                              543.1                       738.7
ICR                                       30.0                        40.4
Total                                    851.4                     1,139.30
Above includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
N Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  * SU O M  ON  O NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
N Private sector development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
FZ Public sector management                0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
Achievement of Objectives: relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
Outputs by Components: relates to the outputs specified in the SAR
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
* Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
* Supervision                                        *HS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
F Preparation                                        O HS O S  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 5  0  U  3 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Back-to-Office Report of the ICR Mission (March 27, 2000)
Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission (March 27, 2000)
Yield Impact Assessment of the SCFDP (UP, Los Banos, July 1997)
A Study on the Sustainability of the Rehabilitation Component of the SCFDP (RICEDFI, November 1999)
Replanting Survey (PCA, 1997)
Second Replanting Survey (PCA, 1999)
Financial and Economic Analysis
Technical Aspects of the Small Coconut Farms Development Project
QAG Report on the First (FY97) Rapid Supervision Assessment (September 29, 1997)
- 30 -



