Doct of
The World Bank
FOR OFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14024-SE
INPMIENATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
GEZIRA RERHTILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1388-SU)
MARCH 2, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At AnDraisal: Sudanese Pound (LSd) 1.0 = USS 0.66 (official)
At Completion: Sudanes Pound (LSd) 10.0 = I Dinar
Sudaes Pound (LSd) 1.0 = USS 0.0026
Dinar 1.0 = USS 0.026
WEIG1TS AND MEASTRES
Feddan (fd) = 0.42 hecare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton) = 141.5 kg
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Sudan: The TIlamic Calendar Year
IDA:        1 July to 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF2AE               Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
AF                  Arab Fund for Developmen
ARC                 Agricultural Research Corporation
ARErP               Agriculural Research, Extension and Training Project
ASC   .             Agricultural Services Company
BNHP                Blue Nile Rehabilitation Project
CMC                 Conon Marketing Company
EMC                 Earth Moving Corporation
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FAOR                FAO's Representtive
FB                  Farmers' Bank
FOG                 Field Outlet Gate
FOP                 Field Outla Pipe
GIS                 Gezira Irrigation Scheme
GLR                 Gezira Light Railway
GOS                 Government of Sudan
GRP                 Gezira Rehabilitation Project
GRS                 Gezira Research Station
HRL                 Hydraulics Research Limited, UK
HRS                 Hydraulics Research Station, Wad Medani
I&D                 Irrigation and Drainage
ICR                 Implemenmation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IIMI                International Irrigation Management Institute
IWC                 Irrigation Works Corporation
MFEP                Ministry of Fioance and Economic Planing
MOA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOI                 Ministry of Irrigation
O&M                 Operation and Maintenance
OFWM                On-Farm Water Managemenm
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
RPMU                Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
RWSA                Rural Water Supply Administration
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SF                  Saudi Fund for Development
SGB                 Sudan Gezira Board
SPTC                Sudan Public Telecommunications Corporation
T&V                 Training and Visit Extension System
WB                  World Bank
WHO                 World Health Organization
WUA                 Water Users Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMNTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABI LITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1388-SU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE  .....................................    i
EVALUATION SUMIMARY ...................................... ii
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUNMMARY  ..........                       .................    1
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES  .................1................... 
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIES ....................................                                    1
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                         .................                    6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABLTrY  .....................................                                     8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .                    ..................................... 9
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE  .....................................   10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  .....                .....  ...........................   11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ............                                       ...........  11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .......................  11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES  ......................................  12
APPENDICES
Maps
lbis document has a restnicted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. It's contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank audtorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1388-SU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gezira Rehabilitation Project
(GRP), Sudan, for which Credit 1388-SU in the arnount of SDR 74.2 million was approved on
June 16, 1983, signed on August 9, 1983 and became effective on May 5, 1985.
The original closing date of June 30, 1989, was extended to December 31, 1995 but the
credit closed early on December 31, 1993 due to suspension of disbursements in the Sudan, which
led to non-accrual status. Total disbursement amounted to SDR 53.5 million or about 72 percent
of the original amount. Final disbursement took place on May 17, 1994, at which time a balance
of SDR20.7 million was canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by Arab Fund USS
47.8 million; Saudi Fund US$ 2.4 million; Italian Grant USS 8.4 million; British Grant USS 8.2
million and Japanese Grant USS 29.0 million. GOS contribution totalled USS 24.6 million.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme,
which visited Sudan from September 12-29, 1994, preparation by the Agriculture and
Environment Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Region and reviewed by Mrs. S.
Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE and Mr. G. Sengupta, Acting Project Advisor, AF2. It is
based on the material collated from the project files, supervision reports, field investigations and
discussions with the Bank and GOS staff associated with the project. The borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, providing substantive comments
on the mission Aide M6moire and submitting a cornprehensive "Project Completion Report."






GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1388-SU)
SUDAN
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Gezira Irrigation Scheme (GIS) was the first large-scale gravity irrigation scheme in
Sudan, which was started mainly to grow cotton during 1920s, following the construction of the
Senmar Dam. In the 1970s, it was expanded with the incorporation of the Menagil area. The total
project area now extends over 2.2 million feddans which is equivalent to 0.9 million hectares.
The performance of the Gezira scheme declined mainly due to lack of maintenance and its
production fell sharply during the late 1970s and the early 1980s. The Government of Sudan
(GOS) requested the Bank Group's assistance in 1979 in the rehabilitation of the GIS.
2.    The Bank had been involved in agricultural operations in Sudan since the early 1960s.
Agricultural credit constituted a large proportion of total Bank lending to Sudan, which included
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized smnallholder development projects, two
livestock projects, an agricultural research project and ten area rehabilitation projects.
3.    The main objective of the project was to raise crop yields and production through the
rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigated area and its supporting services, thereby increasing foreign
exchange earnings in line with the Government's overall strategy of achieving better utilization of
existing capital investments. The main project components included the: (i) improvement of the
Gezira irrigation, drainage, and pumping systems; (ii) rehabilitation of the infrastructure including
roads, cormnunication network, railway, staff housing and ginneries; (iii) provision of critical
inputs such as farm machinery; (iv) improvement of farmer training, research, and extension; and
(v) support to improve health through schistosomiasis control and sanitary systems.
4.    Actual project cost at the time of project closing is estimated at US$ 191.4 million. Final
overall disbursement includes: IDA US$ 70.9 million; Arab Fund US$ 47.8 million; Saudi Fund
US$ 2.4 million; Italian Grant US$ 8.4 million; British Grant US$ 8.2 rnillion; Japanese Grant
US$ 29.0 million; and GOS contribution US$ 24.6 million. IDA disbursement, expressed in SDR,
amounted to SDR 53.5 million or about 72 percent of the original credit amount of SDR 74.2
million. After the last disbursement, which took place on May 17, 1994, the balance of about
SDR 20.7 million was canceled. The GOS contribution reached only 24 percent of SAR estimates
at project closure on December 31, 1993 (Part 11, Table 8B) compared to 32 percent of net
project costs envisaged at appraisal. There were 41 Legal Covenants, of which 39 had been
fulfilled by project closure (Part II, Table 10).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Implementation record: The project was to be implemented over a 5-year period to
1988. Project implementation got off to a slow start because of the delay in the establishment of
the Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (RPMU) and the appointment of its Executive
Director. Despite the slow start up and the suspension of funding by IDA and by two of the five



- ii -
co-financiers at various stages of the project, the overall project implementation can be considered
satisfactory.
6.    As indicated in the appraisal report, a total of 20 sub-components were to be implemented
during the project. To this list, two additional sub-components: the Rehabilitation of the Earth
Moving Corporation (EMC) and the Desilting of Canals were included and funds were to be
secured by co-financiers. The details regarding the physical implementation of each sub-
component are given in Part II, Table 5. Under the irrigation and drainage improvement program,
the Canal Regulators and Structures, the Sennar Dam was not completed and the Desilting of
Canals was not implemented after contracts were awarded due to suspension of disbursements by
the Saudi Fund. The renovation on the Sennar Dam started in early 1983 and remains incomplete
due to suspension and later cancellation of the IDA credit.While the Canal Maintenance
component was partially implemented, the installation of new Drainage Pumps and rehabilitation
of Pumping Stations and the EMC (after great deterioration) were fully carried out. Activities
under the agricultural improvement program including procurement of Agricultural Machinery,
modernization of the Research Station, enhanced Seed Production, Pilot Farm testing and analysis
schemes, upgrading of MOI and SGE Workshop Facilities and Renovation of Gins were
completed. However, new Roller Gins were not procured pending the outcome of agreement on
possible future privatization of the ginneries. Implementation relating to. the upgrading of project
infrastructure including Roads, Teleconmmunications, and Gezira Light Railway is to be recorded
as highly successful. The Rural Water Supply and the Schistosomiasis programme were also fully
implemented, but the sanitation sub-component was only 30 percent completed. The level of
completion of Staff Housing and Utilities sub-component varies from 40 percent to 100 percent.
Only one of the five components relating to institutional strengthening (Sudan Gezira Board (SGB)
Management Information System) was not implemented. Of the remaining four, three were
implemented in full (procurement of vehicles, creation of a Rehabilitation Project Management
Unit (RPMU) and completion of 14 studies) and one, partially (Training and TA).
7.    Project results: The significant improvements in the irrigation and drainage facilities have
contributed to increasing the area under irrigation from 1.2 million feddan to 1.5 million feddan
and the cropping intensity from 58 percent to 72 percent. The training of engineers and
extensionists also had a positive impact on on-farm water management. The improved land and
water management, coupled with the adaptive research, has resulted in significant increases in
yields of wheat, groundnuts and sorghum by 18 percent, 40 percent and 60 percent respectively in
on-farm trials. The benefits derived from the upgraded seed cotton processing equipment are
significant both in terms of lint grade improvement and increased capacity and efficiency of the
ginning process. The production of cotton, sorghum and wheat seed showed an increase of 20
percent as a direct result of project intervention. The effective control of schistosomiasis in 89 of
the 105 blocks of the project area is a significant achievement. Some 200,000 people living in
370 villages in the Gezira now enjoy a reliable, protected drinking water supply for the fist time
as a direct result of the project. Although cost recovery through crop-based water charges does
not yet cover the total annual O&M costs, it is a good beginning.
8.    Key factors affecting project achievements: The most important factor which adversely
affected project implementation and impact on its effectiveness was the suspension of
disbursements for the Saudi Fund (SF) and the Arab Fund (AF) and later the IDA credit. As a.
result of the premature closure of the project, two vital components--the Sennar Dam Renovation
and the Desilting of Canals using private contractors were not implemented. Repair of damaged
and worn out Canal Regulators and Structures also had a notable negative impact on the
achievement of project objectives. The Canal Maintenance component was only partially



- 111 -
implemented due to the unexpected closure of AF financing. In the case of the Sennar Dain,
which was originally to be financed under the Arab and Saudi Funds, out of safety concerns for
the aging structure IDA agreed in 1989 to fund the component when cofinancing was not
available. Work had been initiated, but suspensions of disbursements as a result of non-payment
of arrears by the Government delayed its rehabilitation. IDA sought assurances from Sudan to
continue funding of this component if IDA credits remained suspended.
9.    Sustainability: At the present level of operation, the project is likely to be sustainable.
However, the future of the project would largely depend on uninterrupted water availability from
the Sennar Dam, silt and weed removal from canals, efficient O&M of the irrigation and drainage
system and the infrastructure throughout the project area, continued support to farmers through
extension, research and training, adequate level of funding to research station in the project area,
and controlling the impact of any adverse environmental effects due to salinity and water logging
in the future. Although the Sennar Dam renovations had been started by the contractors, the
component was interrupted due to non-payment by GOS of its arrears that led to cancellation of
IDA funding and premature closing of the project before the December 31, 1995 Closing Date.
GOS has negotiated with the contractor for the resumption of repair work from November 1994
under MOI supervision. The problem of canal siltation and weed growth has become acute in
recent years and the project has only partially contributed towards its solution through the project.
As for O&M, the GOS is subsidizing the total annual cost by as much as 33 percent. The
continuation of the research activities initiated under the GRP and the maintenance of the
infrastructure created will depend on the level of funding from the ARC.
10.   Bank and borrower's performance: The performance of both the Bank and the
Borrower was generally satisfactory. However, the preparation of certain project components was
not adequate. Similarly, the Borrower should have devoted more attention to on-farm water
management through the establishment of a Water Management Advisory Unit as required in the
SAR.
11.   Overall project outcome: The project outcome assessment is rated as "Satisfactory".
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Findings: The most important finding relates to the key irrigation and drainage
components of the project some of which could not be implemented due to suspension of funding
by various donors. This had a negative impact on project achievements and could impinge on
future sustainability of the project.
13.   Future operations: Most of the components of the GRP that could not be fully
completed/implemented could be pursued under a possible new project. The activities which need
most urgent support are: (i) Sennar Dam renovation, (ii) Silt/weed clearance from canals, and (iii)
replacement of spares for agricultural machinery, pumping stations and rural water supply pumps
as well as supply of medicines/chemicals for schistosomiasis control. The raising of the Roseires
Dam is also essential in order to utilize fully the total water resources available to Sudan. It is the
GOS's intention to pursue these objectives in the near future through bilaterallmultilateral
financial assistance.
14.   Key lessons learned: The key lessons learned are:
(i) Long-term solutions to the canal siltation problem should be found, as the silt inflow
into the canals has increased substantially in recent years;



- iv -
(ii) Projects should be adequately designed at appraisal taking into account a more realistic
estimate of the capability of the borrower in meeting its financial and production
obligations;
(iii) The number of project components, the diversity of the procurement, and the
involvement of many different agencies to implement the project led to both various
delays in project start up and implementation.
(iv) In-service training should focus on relevant and practical short-term courses or study
tours rather than on narrow post-graduate degrees;
(v) The various studies under the project were implemented satisfactorily, but the
contracting of most relevant studies (for example the Role of Private Sector in Agriculture
Mechanization, Mechanical Weed Control and Silt Clearance Methods and Acquatic Weed
Control) under the PPF facility prior to project implementation would have contributed
significantly to the timely implementation of some project components.
(vi) A considerable body of proven research results on tillage practices and low cost
systems, which should have been applied in the selection of ancillary agricultural
equipment, was not given due consideration in the replacement of inventories; and
(vii) Although measurable cropping increases in yields have been achieved, there is
potential to further increase cropping intensities;
(viii) IDA's timely assumption of some components suspended from financing by AF/SF
was very helpful in keeping the project moving and is a valuable lesson for future projects
with similar circumstances.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1388-SU)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The principal objective of the project was to raise crop yields and production, thereby increasing
farmers' incomes as well as national foreign exchange earnings. In order to achieve this objective, the project
aimed at improving/upgrading: (i) the irrigation and drainage facilities in the project area (2.2 million
feddansl0.9 million ha), through installation of canal regulators and other control structures, removal of silt
and weeds from canals, rehabilitation or replacement of existing pumping stations, and repair and renovation
of the Sennar Dam-the main source of irrigation water; (ii) the agricultural services through provision of
appropriate machinery, introduction of improved crop production technologies, strengthening of the adaptive
research and extension linkage, and moderniiation of ginneries; and (iii) the project infrastructure through
repairs and maintenance of roads and railway, provision of rural water supply and sanitation, installation of a
project-wide teleconmnunication system, and control of schistosomiasis. In addition, the project provided
institutional strengthening through in-service training (both within the country and abroad) of professional and
other staff, consultancies and problem-oriented studies (see Table 7).
2.    At appraisal there were 20 sub-components, and these increased to 22 as a result of the addition of
two new components: "Rehabilitation of the Earth Moving Corporation (EMC)" and "Desilting of Canals."
Two of the original 20 components (Research-Extension and Renovation of Gins) were also separated to
facilitate implementation. Materials and machinery specifications were modified in the case of some
components.
3.    Project objectives are simple, clear and very relevant to the country and sector. The planned physical
targets were attainable within the project's implementation period. However, the multi-donor financing of the
project and the premature closure of disbursements by some of the donors generated a situation where
reallocation of funds between disbursement categories was required to support essential elements of the
implementation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Physical Objectives
4.    Canal Regulators and Structures (Component No. 1 - Saudi Fund, SF): Several items of this
project component could not be fully implemented due to the suspension of SF disbursements. The roller
sluice gates and moveable weirs were not imported from a German supplier as planned and the Ministry of
Irrigation (MOI) is now considering a proposal to manufacture the sluice gates locally. The order for pipe
regulators and gates from a Saudi supplier was only partially executed due to lack of funds; only the steel



-2 -
gates were delivered in August 1991. The GOS is arranging payment for the 29,000 Field Outlet Gates
(FOG), manufactured and supplied by a Chinese sub-contractor.
5.    Canal Maintenance (Component No. 2 - IDA/Arab Fund (AF)/Italian Grant): The services of the
Earth Moving Corporation (EMC) (see Component 21; para 28) were enlisted not only for the removal of the
accumulated silt backlog in the canal system but also for desilting the canals annually. The machinery
procured as part of this component (loaders, lorries, graders) was very effective in the maintenance of canal
banks and drains. This component had a major positive impact despite the fact that its weed clearance sub-
comnponent was only partially implemented due to the suspension of AF disbursement.
6.    Drainage System (Component No.3 - AFfItalian Grant): The construction of five new pumping
stations to replace the existing derelict stations, and the provision of 60 mobile pump units made a positive
impact on the protection of buildings, animals and crops through improved drainage. Due to the suspension
of the AF loan, however, this component was only partly executed.
7.    Pumping Stations (Component No. 4 - IDA/Italian Grant): This component was fully
implemented with the IDA credit/Italian grant and has been extremely effective in irrigation management.
8.    Sennar Dam (Component No. 5 - IDA): This important component.was initially to be financed by
the Arab and Saudi Funds. However, due to difficulties in obtaining cofinancing and the GOS's default in
repayments, the scope of this component was reduced. Increasing concern on the safety of the aging structure
led IDA to agree during the mid-term review in 1989 to take over the financing of the renovation of the dam.
In December 1992, because of previous delays in tendering due to unacceptable procurement procedures the
closing date for civil works to accommodate the Seniar dam (along with the Technical Services component
for supervision of the works) was extended by IDA to December 31, 1995. This covered the entire
renovation contract period of 30 months. IDA had disbursed over 20 percent of this component for payments
to the contractor. However, due to non-payment of arrears, a second suspension of disbursement of all IDA
credits to Sudan with effect from September 14, 1993 was invoked. In view of the importance of security
and sustainability of the dam, at various times since May 1993 IDA had sought assurances from Sudan to
continue uninterrupted funding of this component from its own sources if IDA credits remained suspended.
Whereas no assurances were received from GOS, it was learned that GOS has subsequently negotiated with
the contractor for the resumption of repair work from November 1994 under MOI supervision.
9.    Agricultural Machinery (Component No. 6 - IDA): Prime movers and ancillary equipment were
procured according to requirements and in a timely manner (up to the 1992/93 growing season) for the
replacement of the existing agricultural machinery. Significant increases in cultivation programs were
achieved, with a reversal of hitherto decreasing production trends. The equipment procured, however, did
not provide for improvements in existing tillage practices. The preparation of specifications did not take into
account the necessity to introduce a low cost system including chisel ploughing and heavy duty cultivators.
10.   Research Station (Component No. 7 - AF/IDA/GOS): The Gezira Research Station was modernized
with the provision of new laboratory equipment, chemicals and agricultural machinery. The staff houses and
other buildings are 70 percent complete. After the suspension of the AF, the GOS was able to provide funds
for completing the remaining housing sub-component.
11.   Provision was made for the introduction of the T&V extension system, with supporting training and
equipment, but transport and operating expenses were not included as part of the project. While -research
extension agreed that the performance at Rahad and New Halfa had shown significant benefits, they showed



-3 -
reluctance to convert inspectors into extension agents. A Department of Extension Services was established
during the project and now consists of 20 officers under a Senior Extensionist. Assistance is being given by
field extension assistants. The foundation for the introduction of a T&V system in Gezira is now well in
place but will require adequate transport facilities and incremental funding to become fully operational.
12.   Seed Propagation (Component No. 7a - AF/IDA): After suspension of the AF loan facility, this
item was brought under IDA funding and has been fully implemented. The production of cotton, sorghum and
wheat seed showed an increase of 20 percent as a direct result of project intervention.
13.   Pilot Farm (Component No. 7b - IDA): The Pilot Farm was established to demonstrate improved
crop production techniques. The farm demonstrations provided useful support for both extension and farmer
training. Agricultural machinery and seed quality laboratory equipment were procured according to proposed
requirements.
14.   Workshops (Component No. 8 - IDA): Consultants were recruited to advise on upgrading,
reorganization and re-equipping the Sudan Gezira Board (SGB) and MOI workshops, and to establish a
central repair and mnaintenance system. They completed their recommendations by 1988. Minor changes in
specifications were accepted by IDA, but procurement of equipment and tools was subjected to long delays.
Cuts in funding due to reallocation of priority activities resulted in final limited procurement of equipment for
SGB and Rural Water Supply Administration (RWSA) workshops only.
15.   Vehicles (Component No. 9 - IDA): The total number of vehicles (795 against an SRA total of 414)
and their allocations to various imnplementing agencies such as EMC, BNHP, RWSA, ARC and RPMU were
adjusted by Supervision Missions in accordance with the needs of the implementing agencies. Three
deliveries were received and the inventory was completed by early 1992. The procurement was efficiently
carried out and the benefits to comnmunication and logistics were evident.
16.   Roads (Component No. 10 - AF/GOS): Ten motor graders procured since 1988 have been used in
upgrading some 6,000 km of tracks along the canals and drains. A 94-kmn long road is being built connecting
El Gorashi and Wad Medani, until now with GOS funding. An agreement with the Islarnic Development
Bank has been signed recently for the funding of this component.
17.   Telecommunications (Component No. 11 - Japanese grant): The Japanese grant, amounting to
about US$29 million, has been fully disbursed. A new telecommunuication "point to multipoint" VHF radio
network was installed in 1988. The central radio exchange in Wad Medani is connected to 1,720 lines,
representing about 95 percent of the total 1,827 subscribers, as proposed by the project. In addition, 200
mobile telephones have been procured for SGB and MOI. This component, implemented by the Sudan Public
Telecommunication Corporation (SPTC), has offered stable telephone service based on the latest technology.
18.   Gezira Light Railway (GLR, Component No. 12 - British grant): Deliveries of equipment and
spare parts took place during the period 1985-86 and by September 1987 deliveries of all goods were
completed as well as the rehabilitation of the locomotives and wagons. TA of 19 person-months was
provided to support the rehabilitation program and to carry out training of personnel dealing with O&M of
engines and locomotives. Furthermore, 13 engineers attended training courses abroad on different aspects of
O&M. Because of a shortage of sleepers, the renewal of 33 km of track was not implemented. However, the
improvements restored 70 percent of the GLR carrying capacity.



- 4 -
19.   New Roller Gins (Component No. 13 - IDA): The installation of saw gins was initially
recommended at appraisal, but discarded due to differences of opinion on whether to continue to grow long
staple in the Gezira. Local authorities preferred the procurement of roller gins and TA was provided to test a
prototype. One trial gin stand was obtained, tested and results were encouraging. It was decided to proceed
with gin stand trials until the cotton policy on varieties was clarified. Since there was insufficient time to
complete trials and to proceed to formulate detailed specifications, the component was terminated in
December 1992.
20.   Renovation of Gins (Component No. 13a - IDAAIF): Two traditional gin stands and manual
presses were replaced and three gins were renovated. Cleaning and humidification processes were
introduced, together with mechanical conveyance systems in three factories. The contract was completed on
schedule. Substantial modifications were required, however, before commnissioning due to the low quality of
the steel used in construction. The gins are now operating efficiently. Improvements to factory workshops,
yard storage and infrastructure were also implemented satisfactorily.
21.   Schistosomiasis Program (Component No. 14 - IDA): This is one of the most effective components
of the project. Out of the 105 blocks covered under the project, the control program for schistosomiasis had
been implemented in 89 blocks by June 1993. The incidence of schistosomiasis has already fallen from 54
percent to 7 percent in those blocks where the program has been in operation over the longest period (i.e.
since 1985). In other blocks the decline varies from 8 percent to 20 percent, according to the length of
operation of the program. The results achieved so far confirm that the reduction in the prevalence of the
disease is a direct consequence of the duration of the disease control program.
22.   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Component No. 15 - IDA): Almost all the targets of this
component have been achieved and it stands out as another most effective component of the GRP, having
provided protected drinking water supply to some 370 villages with a total population of about 200,000.
Some of the 105 deep wells drilled have depths of over 300 m. The quality of water being supplied is being
regularly monitored. As part of the sanitation sub-component, two latrine slab factories were constructed
under the project. However, due to constraints in the availability of cement and steel, only 15,000 of the
planned 50,000 latrine slabs have been manufactured to date.
23.   Staff Housing (Component No. 16 - GOSfIDA): The level of completion of the SGB and MOI
houses ranges from 95 percent to 100 percent and that of offices, stores and workshop units from 40 percent
to 100 percent. Equipment, including generators funded by IDA, have been procured. The quality of
construction of the completed houses is reasonable, but their maintenance will require MOI's and SGB's
attention.
24.   RPMU (Component No. 17 - IDA): The RPMU has functioned effectively since its establishment
and is now working only with a skeleton staff. The Executive Director was due to leave the RPMU at the
end of September 1994. The Draft Project Completion Report prepared by the RPMU was considered
satisfactory and provided a valuable source of information for the preparation of the ICR.
25.   SGB Management (MIS) (Component No. 18 - IDA): The implementation of this component
would have helped the SGB and RPMU in project management, but its implementation did not go beyond
some technical recommendations prepared by two consultancy firms hired by the project. Its implementation
was finally discontinued in December 1992 due to differences in management technical committees and
required changes of the system from time to time among other reasons.



26.   Training and TA (Component No. 19 - D)A/GOS): The initial assessment of training needs at all
levels for SGB, MOI and the Earth Moving Corporation (EMC) was prepared by the British Council. The
total training plan covered over 4,000 staff (while the SAR estimate was 6,450), including overseas (445), in-
country (737), in-house (1,623) and on-the-job training (1,122). About 80 percent of the SGB, 40 percent of
the MOI, and 100 percent of the EMC programs were implemented. Major problems with in-house and in-
country programs were due to the limnited availability of training facilities. The delays in construction of the
Wad Medani training facility were mainly due to the shortfalls in GOS funding of this component.
Notwithstanding the above, the training program was efficiently carried out and reported.
27.   Studies (Component No. 20 - IDA): The total number of studies to be completed was revised from 8
planned in the SAR to 14 (see Table 7), following a desk review of the available literature on the Gezira
scheme. These studies have been fully completed and the reports received by the RPMU. The consultants
selected to conduct these studies were of high calibre, and the reports produced by them are considered
satisfactory by both the GOS and IDA. The studies provide valuable recommendations for future agricultural
policy to be applied within the Gezira scheme.
28.   Rehabilitation of EMC (Component No. 21 - AF/Italian Grant): The bulk of the AF loan and
Italian grant (US$12.52 million) was spent on re-equipping the EMC and in overhauling its old nachinery.
Rehabilitation also included purchase of vehicles and workshop tools. The Irrigation Works Corporation
(IWC) was also provided with building materials and equipment, vehicles and tools at a total cost of US$2.42
million. The EMC was engaged in the desilting of canals and the annual silt removal increased from 9
million m3 in 1988 to 18 million m3 in 1990.
29.   Desilting of Canals (Component No. 22 - IDA): The decision to carry out silt and weed clearance
from canals under an innovative approach of using private contractors could not be implemented due to the
suspension of all IDA credits to Sudan.
Sectoral Objectives
30.   Although some of the physical objectives, particularly in relation to irrigation and drainage
improvement, could not be realized due to suspension of funding rather than due to any technical or
institutional constraints, the achievement of sectoral objectives, on the whole, was substantial. The significant
improvements in the irrigation and drainage facilities and the strengthening of agricultural research, training
and extension services have contributed to increasing the area under irrigation from 1.2 million feddan to 1.5
million feddan and the cropping intensity from 58 percent to 72 percent.
31.   The project strengthened the Gezira Research Station (GRS) and its three outreach sites at Maatug,
Haj-Abdullah and Turabi to support adaptive research and on-farm trials on cotton, wheat, sorghum and
groundnuts. The training of extensionists also had a positive impact on on-farm water management. The
improved land and water management, coupled with the adaptive research, has resulted in significant
increases in yields of certain crops. For example, the yields of wheat, groundnuts and sorghum have
increased by 18 percent, 40 percent and 60 percent respectively in on-farm trials. The benefits derived from
the upgraded seed cotton processing equipment are significant both in terms of lint grade improvement and
increased capacity and efficiency of the ginning process. In addition, plant protection measures were refined
and farm mechanization was strengthened. However, the integration of livestock and crop production was not
seriously attempted.



- 6 -
32.   The effective control of schistosomiasis in 89 of the 105 blocks of the project area is an outstanding
achievement. Moreover, some 200,000 people living in 370 villages in the Gezira, who hitherto did not have
access to potable water, now enjoy a reliable, protected drinking water supply as a direct result of the project.
Economic and Finscial Objectives
33.   Total project cost is estimated to be US$191.4 million (Part II, Tables 8A and 8B). Final overall
disbursement was IDA US$71.0 million, Arab Fund US$47.8 million, Saudi Fund US$2.4 million, Italian
Grant US$8.4 million, British Grant US$8.2 million, Japanese Grant US$29.0 million; and GOS contribution
US$24.6 million. IDA disbursement, expressed in SDRs, amounted to SDR53.5 mnillion or about 72 percent
of the original amount of SDR74.2 million (Part II, Table 4). After the last disbursement on May 17, 1994,
the undisbursed balance of SDR20.7 million was canceled. Percentages of original allocation that were
disbursed from other donor funds were as follows: Arab Fund 62 percent, Saudi Fund 7 percent, Italian
Grant 93 percent, British Grant 99 percent, Japanese Grant 100 percent. The GOS contribution reached 23
percent of appraisal estimates, but only 13 percent of total project costs when the project closed on December
31, 1993.
34.   The Econornic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated to be 35.8 percent. The ERR at
project completion has been estimated at 19 percent. Details are included in Appendix C-1, Tables 1 to 13 of
the FAO full report dated November 4, 1994. The re-estimated ERR differs from the appraisal estimate
mainly because: (i) the canal regulators and structure component was not implemented; (ii) the area under
cotton decreased dramatically since 1984/85 as a result of low world market prices; (iii) low cropping
intensity; and (iv) economic benefits generated as a result of the successful implementation of both the
schistosomiasis program and the rural water supply components have not been taken into account as they
were difficult to quantify.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
35.   The most important factor which adversely affected project implementation was the suspension of
funding by three of the six cofinanciers: IDA, the Saudi Fund (SF) and the Arab Fund (AF) (Part II,
Table 8B). As a result of the premature closure of IDA disbursements, two vital project components-the
Sennar Dam Renovation and Desilting of Canals-in so far as using private contractors were not imnplemented.
IDA, having agreed to extend the credit closing date for the Sennar Dam Renovation to December 31, 1995
because of "the dam safety concerns," canceled the credit after the second suspension of disbursements of all
IDA credits to Sudan with effect from September 14, 1993. This cancellation brought about a difficult
situation since both the contractor and the consultant for the dam renovation were still working on the site.
With seven of the 80 sluice gates from the dam removed by the contractor for repairs, the MOI was fortunate
in dealing adequately with the highest flood since 1988 of 10,650 m3/sec on August 17, 1994. Ever since
May 1993 IDA had sought a commnitment from Sudan to continue uninterrupted funding of the contract from
its own sources if IDA credits remained suspended and no such assurance was received from GOS. In view of
the importance of the Sennar Dam renovation, the GOS has negotiated with the contractor for the resumption
of repair work commencing November 1994 under MOI supervision.
36.   The cancellation of SF disbursements for an equally important component-Canal Regulators and
Structures--also had a notable negative impact on the achievement of project objectives. The roller sluice
gates and moveable weirs were not imported from a German supplier as planned, and the payment for 29,000



-7 -
Field Outlet Gates (FOG), suppiied by a Chinese sub-contractor, was subsequently made by the GOS since
they were delivered after the SF cancellation. Two other components which were critical to the project,
namely, the Canal Maintenance and the Drainage System, were not fully implemented due to the suspension
of AF financing for these components.
37.   Project implementation was delayed by a variety of factors; consequently, the project was given four
extensions (to December 1990, 1991, 1993 and 1995). The longest delay was in the start-up of the project,
due to problems in securing co-financing. Other significant factors which caused subsequent delays were: the
sheer size and diversity of the procurement program, the major plant and equipment needs, modification of
some project components and the addition of new ones, and the selection/ appointment of both project staff
and consultants. Another major factor which contributed to the delay was the involvemnent of some seven
different agencies in project implementation. Despite RPMU's persistent efforts to achieve their cooperation,
it found this task most daunting.
38.   Other factors which affected project implementation were: (i) interruptions in the civil works program
due to shortages of cement and other materials in the market. For example, two new factories which were
built to manufacture 50,000 latrine slabs were able to produce only 15,000; (ii) changes in specifications for
some agricultural machinery and the delays in procurement; and (iii) the SAR proposed the introduction of a
T&V system using converted field inspectors. In effect, the project set up a parallel extension service with 20
extensionists as staff members of the ARC. The research/extension linkage as envisaged did not fully
materialize.
Factors Generally Subject to Govemment Control
39.   Project implementation got off to a slow start because of the delay in the establishment of the
Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (RPMU) and the appointment of its Executive Director. GOS's
contribution amounted to US$24.6 million-about 24 percent of SAR estimate (Part II, Table SB).
Factors Generally Subject to Implementng Agency Control
40.   The factors which could have contributed further to the project performance and achievement and
which were under the RPMU control are:
-     Some of the most promising results of the special study and the experimental work at Pilot Farms
carried out under the project to test various options for sediment management in canals should have
been applied to a few selected canals in the project area;
-     Measured data on irrigation efficiencies hardly exist for the Gezira scheme. Collection of such data
before and after project implementation would have provided useful information on the project's
impact on overall project irrigation efficiency;
-     The selection of ancillary agricultural equipment should have been made on the basis of available
research results and expert advice; and
-     Advance planning in the choice of trainees and in identifying skill gaps would have helped in
highlighting specific needs and assisted in selection of courses;



-8-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Overview
41.   At the present level of operation the project is likely to be sustainable. Future improvement would,
to a large extent, depend on: (i) uninterrupted water availability for irrigation from the Sennar Dam; (ii) long-
term solution of the problem of canal siltation and the growth of aquatic weeds; (iii) efficient operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation and drainage (I&D) system and the infrastructure throughout the project
area; (iv) continued support to farmers through extension, research and training; (v) adequate level of funding
for research stations in the project area; and (vi) mitigation of the effects of any negative enviromnental
impact due to water-logging, salinity, siltation and other soil-plant-water reactions under irrigation.
42.   Water Availability: The Sennar Dam was built in 1925 and it has already outlived its economic life.
Its active storage has diminished from the initial 930 Mm3 to 480 Mm3. The present live storage of 480 Mm3,
together with the available Roseires live storage of 2,200 Mm3, is adequate to meet the irrigation demands of
all schemes, including the Gezira, located along the Blue Nile in an average year. The Sennar Dam repair
and renovation component of the project was aimed at reducing the unacceptably high seepage losses through
the sluice gates and the spillway gates, and irnproving generally the operation of the reservoir. The non-
implementation of this component could seriously affect project sustainability, and it is encouraging to note
that GOS is continuing with the implementation of the renovation works. The present cropping intensity
within the Gezira scheme remains low due to: (i) lower water availability due to unfinished irrigation and
drainage network improvements; (ii) fixed allocation of crop rotation; (iii) lack of adequate agricultural
machinery services; and (iv) limited availability of seed for short production cycle crops such as legumes,
fodder and vegetables.
43.   Silt and Weed Removal from Canals: The problem of canal siltation and sediment deposition has
become acute in recent years especially between July and November each year, based on studies (refer to
Table 7) carried out under the project. Sediment deposition of approximately 14 percent, 22 percent and 33
percent are estimated in the Main, Major and Minor canals r_spectively, the remaining 31 percent being
carried beyond into the fields. Although the rehabilitation and re-equipping of the EMC proved highly
effective in silt/weed removal during the project's life, the MOI may not be able to sustain this important
activity without further technical and financial assistance. Also, the non-procurement of the Canal Desilting
equipment due to suspension of the IDA credit has aggravated the problem. The implementation would have
brought in private contractors to clear the vast backlog of sediment from the canals.
44.   The growth of aquatic weeds in the Gezira canals not only reduces velocities in canals but also
contributes to the general deterioration of the distribution system. Although a number of manual, mechanical,
chemical and biological methods have been applied in the Gezira with varying degrees of success, weed
control still remains a major problem. Weed removal sub-component was a part of the Canal Maintenance
component which was partially implemented due to the cancellation of AF disbursements.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
45.   Irrigation and drainage system: The O&M organization for the Gezira scheme consists of seven
field divisions, with each division having 3 to 4 subdivisions. Each subdivision is in charge of the O&M of
30,000 feddans. It appears that the present system of cost recovery through crop-based water charges meets
only about 67 percent of the total annual O&M costs and the GOS subsidizes the remaining 33 percent of the
cost. As a result of the rehabilitation of the scheme and especially when the Sennar Dam Renovation and



- 9 -
Canal Maintenance components are implemented, the O&M charges are likely to rise due to the increased
irrigated area, and the GOS would then have to raise the water charges to meet the increased O&M
expenditure. It must be emphasized that efficient O&M of the I&D system is essential to the sustainability of
the project's achievements. The active involvement of farmers in O&M should also be sought through the
establishment of Water Users Associations (WUA) (see para 54).
46.   Infrastructure: The maintenance of roads repaired, upgraded or constructed under the project is the
responsibility of the MOI at Gezira. The O&M of 370 new rural water supply schemes is being carried out
by the respective Village Councils set up by the RWSA, and two persons from each village are being trained
in the O&M procedures. However, the RWSA may not have the resources to finance the purchase/import of
spares for pumps, water tanks, etc, in the future. The substantial reduction achieved in the incidence of
schistosomiasis in 89 of the 105 blocks in the Gezira would depend on the regular supplies of drugs and
chemicals (e.g. praziquental tablets, focal molluscicides, etc.).
Agricultural Services and Research
47.   Although the project has made a significant impact on agricultural production through the
rehabilitation of cultivation equipment, the scheme rernains under-mechanized. A schedule of continual
replacement supported by adequate financial resources is necessary if the current level of land preparation is
to be maintained. An important decision taken by the GOS in 1992 was to allow privatization of agricultural
services, including credit, mechanization and crop marketing. For this purpose new private entities have been
recently established and include the Farmers Bank, the Agricultural Services Company and the Cotton
Marketing Company. As a result, SGB activities in providing partially subsidized agricultural services are
being scaled down. The Farmers' Bank has recently procured 150 tractors and 30 combine harvesters either
to be handed over to private farmers on credit or to adequately equip its affiliated Agricultural Services
Company. Responsibilities of SGB regarding farm services and collection of agricultural produce will be
maintained on a self-financing basis.
48.   The research activities initiated under the GRP and the infrastructure created will depend, to a large
extent, on the level of funding from ARC. As long as the ARC's conmmitment to maintain GRS as a leading
center of crop research in the country continues, the future outlook appears favorable.
Environmental Aspects
49.   The wells drilled in the project area for rural water supply have reached depths of 300 m or more and
some of them are located close to the Blue Nile. The depths of these wells indicate that deep percolation
from the project area is extremely low and water-logging will not be a problem in the immediate future.
Although soil salinity has not been noticed so far, increased cropping intensity in the future may result in
salinization of soils in some parts of the project area. The project authorities were advised to monitor
possible environmental impacts on a regular basis.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
50.   The project was identified by the Bank and prepared by the GOS assisted by local and foreign
consultants. The preparation was jointly financed by the IDA and the Kuwait Fund. Although the project
was generally well conceptualized, prepared and appraised, some components were better prepared than
others. A key component under irrigation and drainage improvement was "Canal Maintenance" which was
included in the project because of the serious deterioration in the performance of the water distribution system



- 10-
due to silting of canals and growth of aquatic weeds. When the project implementation commenced in 1985,
there was already a huge backlog of silt and weeds to be cleared from the canals. The implementation of this
comnponent was also closely linked to a special study by the HRS which formed part of the 14 studies under
the project (para 27 and Table 7). Soon after implementation started, two new components "Rehabilitation of
EMC" and "Canal Desiltingr were added to the project. Although the mission could not trace the background
or history of these new components from the project files or from the Supervision Mission reports, it appears
that these components were linked to the "Canal Maintenance" component. In retrospect, if the canal siltation
study had been carried out under the PPF prior to project implementation, its recommendations could have
helped in the timely implementation of this component.
51.   Another important aspect to which adequate attention was not paid at project preparation and appraisal
pertains to cropping patterns and cropping intensities at the Gezira. Water being a limiting factor in Sudan
under the Sudan-Egypt Nile Agreement of 1959, it is not possible to achieve very high cropping intensities.
However, the reduction in the cotton area in recent years makes it feasible to achieve intensities of over 100
percent if: (a) the existing cropping pattern, based on a four-course (cotton, groundnut, wheat and sorghum)
rotation including a fallow, is changed in areas where cotton is not being grown; (b) the choice of the
cropping pattern is left to the farmers; (c) appropriate agricultural machinery is made available; and (d)
supplies of legume seeds for fallow are made available. The increase in cropping intensity from 58 percent to
72 percent (para 30) could well have been exceeded.
Project Supervision
52.   A total of 23 Supervision Missions, including a Mid-Term Evaluation Mission, were mounted
between September 1983 and April 1993 (Part 11, Table 13). This is above the average for a project of this
nature and indicates the emphasis placed on project supervision. The mnissions usually consisted of an
economist, an irrigation engineer and an agriculturalist, and occasionally included a procurernent specialist.
Inclusion of an agricultural machinery expert in early Supervision Missions would have assisted the project
management in the choice of relevant machinery and the preparation of detailed technical specifications. On
the whole, the project was monitored effectively and its progress-or lack thereof-was well reported.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
53.   The borrower's performance was generally satisfactory. The various institutions involved in project
implementation-MOA, MOI, RPMU, SGB, ARC, RWSA, BNHP-also performed satisfactorily despite the
multi-source financing of the project. The in-service training of both the managerial and professional staff
also contributed to smooth project management. The RPMU controlled the project most efficiently and
maintained a regular liaison with the donors and the implementing agencies. It cooperated with visiting donor
missions and supplied them with all the project implementation data. However, despite the continued Bank
assistance in explaining procurement procedures, the RPMU found them too complex and cumbersome.
Although each individual implementing agency performed well, the three agencies which implemented the
most effective project components were the BNHP, RWSA and the SPTC. The unique experience gained by
these agencies would be immensely useful elsewhere in the future.
54.   Although the SAR reconmmended "group action by farmers in proper water management and upkeep
of field channels" (SAR: para 4.13), neither the MOI nor the SGB took any initiative in the establishment of
Water Users' Associations (WUA). The report by an IIM Water Management Adviser commissioned by the
SGB under the project makes several relevant recommendations on improving On-Farm Water Management
(OFWM), but it does not specifically emphasize the need for establishing WUAs. At a time when farmers'



- I1 -
participation in the management of irrigation schemnes is being actively practiced through the formation of
WUAs, the MOIISGB seem to have lost an opportunity to establish WUAs at Gezira not only to improve
OFWM but also to enlist the farmers' cooperation in O&M and in other on- and off-farm activities.
G. ASSESSNT OF OUTCOME
55.   The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory, notwithstanding the non-implementation of some
important project components relating to irrigation and drainage improvement due to suspension of funding.
The project's outcome, especially in relation to agricultural research and training, infrastructural improvement
and institutional strengthening, was substantial.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
56.   The future sustainable operation of the project will depend on the successful completion of those vital
I&D components which could not be implemented due to withdrawal of funding. It is understood the
Government has already initiated work on these components through its own funding or other sources. The
activities which will require donor and the Bank's urgent support, when the Bank resumes its lending to
Sudan, are (i) Sennar Dan renovation, (ii) Silt/weed clearance from canals, and (iii) replacement of spares
for agricultural machinery, pumping stations and rural water supply pumps; as well as supply of medicines/
chemicals for schistosomiasis control.
57.   The major constraint in expanding/intensifying agriculture in the Gezira is the limited availability of
water from the Blue Nile and the capacity of the conveyance and distribution system. The GOS, in order to
utilize fully the allocated water resources under the 1959 Sudan-Egypt Nile Agreement wants to proceed with
the raising of the Roseires Dam as originally planned. The GOS attaches top priority to this activity and is
looking for potential donors to finance it.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
58.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(i) The present practice of removing large amounts of silt from canals mechanically is only a
temporary O&M measure. Long-term solutions to the canal siltation problem should be found, as the
silt inflow into the canals has increased substantially in recent years;
(ii) Projects should be adequately designed at appraisal taking into account a more realistic estinate of
the capability of the borrower in meeting its fnancial and production obligations;
(iii) The number of project components, the diversity of the procurement, and the involvement of
many different agencies to implement the project led to both various delays in project start up and
implementation.
(iv) In-service training should focus on relevant and practical short-term courses or study tours rather
than on narrow post-graduate degrees;
(v) The various studies under the project were implemented satisfactorily, but the contracting of most
relevant studies (for example the Role of Private Sector in Agriculture Mechanization, Mechanical
Weed Control and Silt Clearance Methods and Acquatic Weed Control) under the PPF facility prior



- 12 -
to project implementation would have contributed significantly to the timely implementation of some
project components.
(vi) A considerable body of proven research results on tillage practices and low cost systems, which
should have been applied in the selection of ancillary agricultural equipment, was not given due
consideration in the replacement of inventories; and
(vii) Although measurable cropping increases in yields have been achieved, there is potential to
further increase cropping intensities;
(viii) IDA's timely assumption of some components suspended from financing by AF/SF was very
helpful in keeping the project moving and is a valuable lesson for future projects with similar
circumstances.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives           Substantial   Partial    Ne2ligible    Not
(I)        (I)         (I)      ADDlicable
(e
Macro policies                                                                 /
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                   = 
Institutional development                              = 
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                          _-_
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                   _/=
Public sector management
Private sector development                             /
Other (specify)                                       7=
B. Project sustainabilitv            Lily         Unlikely    Uncertain
(/          (1)         (/
C. Bank nerformance                 satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
(T          ()          (e
Identification                                    /
Preparation assistance                            7
Appraisal
Supervision
Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                       I
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highlv                                    Hi2hly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactor   unsatisfactory
V) VZ



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Page 1 of 2
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose         Year of           Status
IApproval
1. Savannah Development                    Rainfed area        1977            Closed
(Cr.No. 0718-SU)                       development                          June 1984
2. Roseires Irrigation                    Irrigation           1961            Closed
(Cr.No. 0002-SU)                                                         December 1971
3. Second Mechanized Farming              Agricultural         1972            Closed
(Cr.No. 031 1-SU)                      Mechanization                     December 1980
4. Rahad Irrigation                       Irrigation           1973            Closed
(Cr.No. 0364-SU)                                                            June 1980
5. South Region Agric. Rehab.             Area develop-        1974            Closed
(Cr.No. 0476-SU)                       ment                              December 1979
6. Livestock Marketing                    Livestock            1978            Closed
(Cr.No. 0782-SU)                                                         December 1986
7. Third Mechanized Farming               Agricultural         1978            Closed
(Cr.No. 0804-SU)                       Mechanization                     December 1985
8. Agricultural Research                 Research &            1978            Closed
(Cr.No. 0834-SU)                       Extension                         December 1987
9. Southern Region Agriculture            Area develop-        1979            Closed
(Cr.No. 0904-SU)                       ment                                 June 1984
10. Agric. Rehab. Programme              Area develop-         1980            Closed
(Cr.No. 1000-SU)                       ment                               March 1983
11. New Halfa Irrigation Rehab.          Irrigation            1980            Closed
(Cr.No. 1022-SU)                       improvement                         June 1989
12. Blue Nile Pump Scheme Rehab.         Irrigation            1981            Closed
(Cr.NO. 1118-SU)                       improvement                         Sept. 1990
13. White Nile Pump Scheme Rehab         Irrigation            1981            Closed
(Cr. No. 1119-SU)                      improvement                      December 1987
14. Western Savannah                     Rainfed area          1981            Closed
(Cr.No. 1181-SU)                       development                         June 1986
15. Agricultural Services                Support               1982            Closed
(Cr.No. 1201-SU)                       services                            Sept. 1989
16. Agric. Rehabilitation II             Area develop-         1983            Closed
(Cr.No. 1389-SU)                       ment                             November 1986



- 15 -
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Credit Title           |    Purpose      |   Year of   |       Status
Approval
17. Sugar Rehabilitation                 Agro-industry         1984            Closed
(Cr.No. 1506-SU)                                                        December 1993
18. Drought Recovery Programme           Area develop-         1985            Closed
(Cr.No. 1614-SU)                      ment                                 June 1988
19. Western Savannah II                  Rainfed area          1985            Closed
(Cr.No. 1640-SU)                      development                          June 1993
20. Agric. Rehabilitation III            Area develop-         1987            Closed
(Cr.No. 1866-SU)                      ment                              December 1992
21. Emergency Drought Recovery           Area develop-         1991            Closed
(Cr.No. 2290-SU)                      ment                                 Sept. 1993
22. Agric Extension & Training           Support               1985            Closed
(Cr.No. 1639-SU)                      services                             June 1993
23. Southern Kordafan Agri. Dev.         Rainfed area          1987            Closed
(Cr.No. 1867-SU)                      development                       December 1994
24. Southern Kassala Agric.              Area develop-         1988            Closed
(Cr.No. 1961-SU)                      ment                                 Sept. 1995
25. Emergency Flood Recons-              Area develop-         1989            Closed
truction (Cr.No. 201 1-SU)            ment                               October 1993



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cyde                  Date Planned     Date Actual
Identification                                                        June 1979
Preparationr"                                                         April 1981 to
May 1982
Appraisal Departure                               May 1982            May 26, 1982
Post Appraisal Departure                                              September 28, 1982
Negotiations                                       April 1983         April 7-15 1983
Board presentation                                June 1983           June 16, 1983
Signing                                                               August 9, 1983
Effectiveness                                      September 1983     May 9, 1985
Mid-term Review                                                       January 1989
Completion Date                                   June 30, 1988       December 31, 1993
Credit Closinge                                   June 30, 1989       December 31, 1993
The project was prepared by consultants, under contract to the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
The WB visited Sudan twice: September 1981 and December 1981, to participate in the review of project
preparation and hold discussions with GOS and the consultants. Time taken to prepare the project is 12
months.
2/  The closing date was exttemded to December 31, 1995. However, because of the second supervision of
disbursement of all IDA credits to Sudan, the credit was closed on December 31, 1993 and the undisbursed
balance of US$20.7 million was cancelled.



- 17 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cunulative Estimated and Actual
FY83  FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
............................ (US$ million) ............................
A. Expressed in US$
Appraisal estimate            0.3    6.1    27.2    44.6    61.5    71.7    80.0        -       -      -      -       -
Actual                         -       -      0.3      1.2    11.0    18.0    31.2   44.0   56.0   62.1   67.2   71.0
Actual as % of estimate        -       -       1.1     2.7    17.9    25.1    39.0   55.0   70.0   77.6   84.0   88.8
........(SDR                                   iIlion) .   ...........(SDR.million).
B. Expressed in SDR
Appraisal estimate            0.3     5.7   25.2    41.4    57.0    66.5    74.2        -       -      -      -        -
Actual                         -       -      0.2      0.9      8.3    13.5    23.5   33.2   42.2   46.8   50.7    53.5
Actual as % of estimate        -       -      0.8      2.2    14.6    20.3    31.7   44.7   56.9   63.1   68.3   72.1
Date of final disbursement:   17 May 1994



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Ending December 1993)
Page 1 of 4
I. Key Implementation Indicators (SAR)         Unit       Estimated          Actual
1. Canal Regulators and Structures
- Roller Sluice Gates                              Nos.         16+66        )
- Regulator Doors                                  Nos.          475         )    Not
- Steel Pipes                                      Nos.          680         ) Implemented
- Field Outlet Gates (FOG)                         Nos.          2400        )
- Water Level Gauges                               Nos.          200
2. Canal Maintenance
- Loader                                           Nos.           6                6
- Tipper Lorries                                   Nos.           18               18
- Graders                                          Nos.           12               12
- Mechanical Weed Clearance                        LS"                       )    Not
- Chemical/Biological Weeding Research              LS                       ) Implemented
3. Drainage
- Desilting of Major Drains                        km            1480             1480
- Excavation of New Main Drains                    km            190               190
- Reconstruction of Minor Drains                   km            4000             4000
- Pumping Stations                                 Nos.           5                5
- Mobile Pump Units                                Nos.           60               60
- Syphons                                          Nos.           2                2
- Road Crossings on Major Drains                   Nos.          600              600
4. Pumping Stations
- Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations               Nos.           9                9
- Replacement of Pumping Stations                  Nos.           1                 1
5. Sennar Dam
- Repair of Gates                                                           )
- Overhauling of Cranes                                         Overall     )    Not
- Upgrading of Mechanical Equipment                          Rehabilitation   ) Implemented
- Upgrading of Workshop                                                     )
6. Agricultural Machinery
- Tractors (55 kw)                                 Nos.          150               150
- Farm Implements                                              Various            100%
7. Research Station
- Building (existing)                              Nos.        Various            70%
- Building - new houses                                           17                -
- Building at Kenana Station                                      12         20% completed
- Vehicles                                                        16               16
- Agricultural Machinery                                         122               17
- Lab Equipment and Chemicals                        -         Various            100%
- Electr. Equipment                                 set            I
" Lump Sum provision.
2/ All figures provided by FAO.



- 19 -
Page 2 of 4
I. Key lmplementation Indicators (SAR)         Unit        Estimated          Actual
7a. Seed Production
- Lab Building                                     Nos.            I               100%
- Agricultural Macbinery                             -          Various            100%
- Lab Equipment and Chemicals                        -          Various            100%
- Agricultural Machinery                             -          Vaious             100%
- Lab Equipment and Chemicals                        -          Various            100%
8. Workshops
- Building                                         Nos.            1               100%
- Equipment                                                     Various            100%
- Fuel Storage Tank                                Nos.           LS               60%
- Generators                                       Nos.           LS             (3 SGB/
2+10 MOI)
9. Vehides"
- 2x4 WD Pickups                                   Nos.            61              291
- 4x4 WD Pickups                                   Nos.           286              254
- 4x4 WD Station Wagon                             Nos.            -                58
- Saloon cars                                      Nos.            4                11
- 7T Cargo Trucks                                  Nos.            39               130
- Fuel Tankers                                     Nos.            15               42
- Fire Engine Trucks                               Nos.            9                9
TOTAL                                                         414              795
10. Roads
- Repairs and Maintence                             km            6000             6000
- Machinery (Graders)                              Nos.            10               10
11. Telecommunications
- Exchanges                                        Nos.            3                3
- Telephone Lines (New/Expansion)                  Nos.        1500/1000         1500/1000
12. Gezira Light Railway
- Trolleys (Motorised/Hand Pumped)                 Nos.           3+3              3+3
- Elevating Motor Graders                          Nos.            2                2
- Hand Tools                                                    Various            100%
- Replacement of Tracks                             km             38               38
- Rehabilitation of Wagons                                       Spares           100%
- New Tanker Wagons                                Nos.           20                20
- New Locomotive Engines                           Nos.            10               10
13. New Roller Gins                                Nos.            2         Not Implemented
The  vehicle  requirements  were  revised  to  meet  the  needs  of  7  implementing  agencies
(SGB/MOIIEMC/BNHPIARC/RWSAIRPMU) during implementation. Allocations to individual agencies are given
in the Borrower's Report.



- 20 -
Page 3 of 4
1. Key Implementation Indicators (SAR)         Unit       Estiated           Actual
13a. Renovation of Gins                            Nos.           5                 5
14. Schistosomiasis Programme
- Blocks Covered for Schistosomiasis Control       Nos.           89                89
15. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Supply:
- Boreholes with Handpumps                         Nos.           145              145
- Pumps+Storage Tanks                              Nos.           60               60
- Rehabilitation of Sand Filters                   Nos.           100              100
- Maintenance Workshops                            Nos.           4                 4
Sanitation:
- Latrine Slab Factories                           Nos.           2                 2
- Latrine Slab Production                          Nos.         50000             15000
16. Staff Housing and Utilities
SGB Staff:
- TI Houses                                        Nos.           24              81%
- T2 Houses                                        Nos.           54              97%
- T3 Houses                                        Nos.           21              100%
MOI Staff:
- TI Houses                                        Nos.           2               95%
- T2 Houses                                        Nos.           3               95%
- T3 Houses                                        Nos.           15              95%
- Trning Centre Building                           Nos.            1              70%
- Canal Gateman Houses                             Nos.           50              40%
- Utilities (Electricity/Water Supply/Sanitation)                 LS            50-100%
17. RPMU (Staff, TA, Other Services)                              LS              100%
18. SGB Management Information System                             LS        Not Implemented
19. Training and TA
SGB: - Abroad                                      Nos.          201               198
- In-country                                   Nos.           603              486
- In-house                                     Nos.          1493              1194
- On-the-job                                   Nos.           855              855
MOI: - Abroad                                      Nos.          204               89
- In-country                                   Nos.           133               83
- In-house                                     Nos.           184               7
- On-the-job                                   Nos.           267              167
EMC: - Abroad                                      Nos.           16                16
- In-country                                   Nos.           70                70
- In-house                                     Nos.           186              186
- On-the-job                                   Nos.           130              130
20. Studies                                       Nos.            8                14"
The total number of studies was revised to deal with such problems as canal siltation, weed control etc. A desk review
of existing literature, included under this component, identified/formulated TORs for additional studies.



- 21 -
Page 4 of 4
II. Other Implementation Indicatorsl'           Unit        Estimated           Actual
21. Rehabilitation of EMC
- Rehabilitation of Old Machinery                    Nos.           124               124
- Dragline                                        Nos.            29                29
- Bulldozers                                      Nos.            12                12
- Scrapers                                        Nos.            20                20
- Motor Graders                                   Nos.            12                12
- Excavators
- Vehicles (included under Component 9 above)                      .
22. Desilting of Canals                                                               Not
(Using Private Contractors)                                                      Implemented
l                                                                                                 I
Theses indicators were neither mentioned specifically in the SAR nor detailed when some other project components
were modified.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable to this Project



* 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             |  Purpose as Defmed  |       Status     | Impact of Study
I     at Appraisal     I                 l
1.  Desk Review                 To determine TORs for   Completed 1987  Helped in identi-
other studies                           fying other studies
2.  Iitial socio-economic survev   To obtain demographic,   Completed 1994   Assistance in
(Tenancy Study)               occupational and                         project planning
l __________________________     agricultural  data
3.  Intensive socio economic    Detailed survey         Completed 1994  Impact on project
study                                                                planning/design
4.  Credit Study                To study credit/debt    Completed 1990  Impact on pricing,
situation in project area                marketing
5.  Integration of Livestock    Integration of livestock    Completed 1987   Positive
into cropping pattern                   recommendations
6.  Role of Private Sector in   To get a better insight    Completed 1991   Positive
Agricultural Mechanization    into the capability of                recommendations
private sector
7.  Profitability of Vegetable  To get a quantitative   Completed 1991   Positive
Production                  assessment of profits                   recommendations
from veg. production                                      l
8.  Migrant Labour Settlements   To explore cost of re-  Completed 1994  Not yet
location/re-settlement                   implemented
9.  Crop Choice and Cropping    To determine cropping      Delayed,      Positive
Pattems                     patterns for individual    Completed 1994   recommendations
farmers
10. Privatised Agriculture by   To draw up scheme for   Completed 1994  Implemented
Enterprising Tenants        privatized agriculture by                according to
entrepreneurs tenants                    schedule
11. Mechanical Weed Control/    To assess cost/benefits    Completed 1989  Recommendations
Silt Clearance Methods      of combined silt/weed                    not yet applied in
clearance operations                     field
12. Aquatic Weed Control        To assess cost of       Completed 1988  Recommendations
chemical/biological                      not implemented
control programmes                       yet
13. Ginning Efficiency          To review existing      Completed 1990   Recommendations
l ___________________________    systems                                  adopted
14. Sediment Control by Settling   To determine cost and  In progress    HRL (UK) also
Basins                      sediment trapping                       involved.
efficiency of settling                   Recommendations
tanks                                    awaited.



- 24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                      Local    Foreign               Loal    Foreign
costs     costs     Total     costs      costs     Total"
1. Irrigation             10.7      10.9       21.6       8.5        8.5       17.0
2. Drainage System         11.8      11.2      23.0        -         6.8        6.8
3. Pumping Stations        2.0       4.5        6.5       -          5.0        5.0
4. Sennar Dam              1.7       2.5        4.2       0.3        9.2        9.5
5. SBG                     2.2       10.1      12.3        -         7.5        7.5
6. Extension & Research    2.1       3.5        5.6       0.5        2.9        3.4
7. Workshops               5.8       10.5      16.3       -          0.9        0.9
8. Vehicles               10.8       8.2       19.0       -          9.0        9.0
9. Roads                   1.7       2.9        4.6      11.3        0.2       11.5
10. Telecommunication       3.1       8.6      11.8        -         29.0      29.0
11. GLR                     1.4       3.6       5.0        -          8.2       8.2
12. Ginneries               7.2      14.1      21.3        -         21.9      21.9
13. Schisto ........        0.4       5.6       6.0       0.4         2.8       3.2
14. RWS                     8.2       7.1      15.3       1.1         7.7       8.8
15. Housing                 5.8       3.5       9.3        -          0.1       0.1
16. RPMU                    2.7       1.7       4.4       0.4        4.0        4.4
17. SBG Inf. Syst.          1.3       2.5       3.9       2.1         0.1       2.2
18. Traiinig                1.8       2.4       4.2        -          4.0       4.0
19. Other TA                0.3       1.5       1.8                   1.3       1.3
20. Studies                 1.2       1.2       2.4        -         25.0       25.0
21. EMC'                    -         -          -        . ..       12.7       12.7
Total Baseline Costs       82.5      116.2     198.6
Physical Contingency       8.5       11.9      20.5
Price Contiongency         21.9      21.7      43.6
TOTAL:                  112.9     149.8      262.7      24.6      166.8      191.4
Data provided by FAO and RPMU.
Not included at appraisal.



- 25 -
Table SB: Project Fnancing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign
costs     costs      Total     costs     costs      Total
Source
E IBRD/II)A                 3.6        76.4      80.0        -        71.0       71.0
Cofinancing institutions     -         73.4      73.4                 95.8       95.81"
Other external sources       -          -          -         -         -          -
Domestic contribution      109.3        -        109.3     24.6        -         24.6
TOTAL                     112.9     149.8      262.7      24.6      166.8      191.4
Including:  Arab Fund: US$ 47.8 million; Saudi Fund: US$ 2.4 million; British Grant: USS 8.2 million;
Italian Grant: USS 8.4 million; Japanese Grant: US$ 29.0 million.



- 26 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated to be 35.8 percent. The high ERR
reflected the large amount of sunk capital in the project area, and increased efficiency of
operations. The ERR at project completion has been estimated at 19 percent. The re-estimated
ERR differs from the appraisal estimate mainly because: (i) several items under the canal
regulators and structure component could not be implemented due to the suspension of SF
disbursements; (ii) although the total irrigated area in the Gezira scheme increased from about 1.2
feddans (average 1984/85-1986/87) to some 1.5 million feddans (average 1991/92-1993/94), the
area under cotton decreased dramatically since 1984/85 as a result of low world market prices of
cotton. Presently, only 150,000 feddans are occupied by cotton. At appraisal, the area under
cotton was projected to reach 460,000 feddans at project completion; (iii) the cropping intensity in
the Gezira scheme still remains low (72 percent); (iv) only the investment costs relative to the
GLR component (US$29.0 million) have been excluded from the economic re-evaluation; (v) the
re-estimated ERR is considered conservative since the economic benefits generated as a result of
the successful implementation of both the schistosomiasis programme and the rural water supply
components, impossible to quantify, have not been taken into account. Detailed analysis and
assumptions are given in Appendix C-1, Tables 1 to 13 of FAO's Completion Report dated
November 3, 1994.



- 27 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
SUDAN
Gezira Rehabilitation Project
Page 1 of 4
Para of Agreement (DCA)  Requirement                               Stat
2.02 a                   Withdrawals from credit account in accordance  In compliance
with provisions of schedule I to this agreement
2.02 b                   After effectiveness, association shall withdraw   In compliance
PPF.
2.03                     Procurement shall be in accordance with   In compliance
Schedule 3.
2.05                     Payment of commitment charge and service    In compliance
charge to association.
3.02 (b) (i)             Establish and maintain project management    In compliance
committee and project procurement committee.
3.02 (b) (ii)            Prepare and subnit by Aprl 1, each year to    In compLiance
PMC for its review and approval, a draft
annual work programme, acceptable to
association.
3.02 (b) (iii, iv, v, vii)  Borrower shall make quarterly transfers of  Not complied with but
funds to SGB.                             MOP agreed to give
advance and replenish as
and when vouchers are
submitted
3.03                     Borrower shall employ consultants whenever   In compliance
required acceptable to association.
3.04 (a)                 The borrower undertakes to insure or make  In compliance
adequate provision for insurance of imported
goods.
3.05 (a)                 Submit to association plans, specification,  In compliance
reports, contract documents procurement
schedules for the parts of project for which it is
responsible as per request of association.
3.05 (b)                 Maintenance records and procedures adequate  In compliance
to record and monitor the progress of parts of
the project to enable association representative
to verify.
3.05 (d)                 Prepare and furnish to association and report   In compliance
of such scope on the execution and initial
operation of project its costs, and benefits
derived.



-28 -
Page 2 of 4
3.07                     Enter agreement with SPTC for tarif for   In compliance
facilities included in part WK" of project
3.08                     Borrower ensure that Agriculture Bank of  Not complied with as bank
Sudan make available finance for purchase of   has no funds, project
75 tractors and implements to tenants.   purchased tractors
4.01 (a)                 Borrower shall maintain separate accounts of   In compliance
each implementing agency.
4.01 (b)                 Borrower shal maintain separate accounts for   In compliance
all expenditure relating to withdrawals which
were requested from credit on the basis of
statement of expenditure.                          __
4.01 (c)(i)              Borrower shall subnit unaudited accounts not   In compliance
later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year to association.
Borrower shall submit audited accounts and
(ii)                     auditors report to associon not later than  In compliance
nine months after end of each fiscal year.
4.02 (b) (i)              Provide funds for proper maintenance of the    In compliance
Roseries Dam.
4.02 (b)                  Borrower shall make periodical inspection of   In compliance
Sennar and Roseries Dams in accordance with
Sound Engineering practice and submit
association maintenance requirements.
4.03                      Borrower prepare and submit to association for  NRIP project document
its review and comments ten year programme   prepared under ARPm
for its proposed investments in irrigation sub-
sector.
4.04                      Borrower shall set cotton and wheat prices  In compliance
levels applicable to producers.
4.05 & 4.06              Borrower shall set annually the levels of  In compliance
machinery hire applicable, water and land  In compliance
charges to the tenants of project area on the
basis of full recovery of costs.
6.01                      Conditions of loan effectiveness.        Fully met



-29-
Page 3 of 4
Project Agreent (GRP)  Requme                                       Stanu
2.01 (b) i                By Apil of eah year preparc annual work  In complianc
ptogamme and submit to ascatio
2.01 (b) ii               Carry out amnual wok programme approved    In cmpliance
,__________   by asoiation, satisactorily.
2.02                      Epooy consultants wbh r required         In compliance
satisaory to asociation
2.03 (a)                  To insure the imported goods.            In omplianc
2.04 (a)                  Submit to association plas, specification,  In c   n
reports, contract documents, onsrtion and
procuem  schledules to association for
approva.
2.04 (b) (i)              Shl maintain records and procedu         In compliance
adequate to record and monitor progress of
project operatios and submit and be available
to association's rcpresetative for verification.
2.04 (b) I                Prepar and submit associton a report of such  In compian
scope on the execution and initial opation of
project pars for review.
2.04 (t)                  Allow association representate to  me all  In omplimce
plants site works, etc.
2.07                      SGB shall ransfer to MOI the operation of  In cmpliance
minor canals of the project area acorng to
timetable.
2.09                      Establish  seah and producon comnumtnes   In compliance
forpart G of project_
3.01 (a)                  Shall cary on its operations and conduct its    In compliance
affairs in accordance with Sound
Administrative, financal practices.
3.01 (b) (i)              Employ MD, Dy MD, RIE coordinator.       In compliance
(ii)                Prepare action progamme to stegthen IL.S.  In compliance
(iii)               Prepae training proramme and submit to   In compliance
assoiation.
3.02                      Maintain and keep planl, machinemy, etc., in    In complia
good condition.
3.03                      To take out insurance with responsible insurers  In complianc
riks satisctory to association.
4.04 (a)                  Maintain records and accounts as per      In compi
principles of account pracc  and dail of
expenditure claimed under statem  of



- 30 -
Page 4 of 4
4.02 (b)(i)               Submit to DA copies of unaudited accounts    Audits have been
not later than six months aRer the end of the    compleed but wre
fiscal year.                             frequey delad
(ii)                      Suibmit to IDA audited acomnms and Auditor's  Same as 4.02 (b)
report not laWer than nme months after the
completion of the fiscal year.



- 31 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operdonal Mamual Statements
Describe anld comment on laclc of
Statement nuimber and title                     compUliancel
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP).



- 32 -
Table 12: Bank Reources: Staff Input
Planned                Revised               Actual
Stage oft
psoject cycle      Wede         USS        Weeks       USS        Weeks      USS
Through appraisal       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        154.2      n.a
Negotiations            n.a.        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.         4.5      n.a.
Supervision             131         n.a.       170.4       n.a.       292.9       n.a
Completion                                      11.0       n.a.         13.0"    n.a.
TOTAL                   ...         ...                    n.a.       464.6       n.a.
NOTE: Planned Staff Weeks are not available prior to 1989 due to data remapping.
Carried out by FAO/CP.



-33 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Smage of                 Month/          No. of       Days in      Specialised         Performance Rating           Types of
Project Cycle             Year           Persons       Field       Staff Skills                                    Problenf
Represented'    Implement .    Development    Polm~
Status       Objectives
Identification      June 1979"              3           14         FA,C,NA                                   _
Preparation"        Sept        1981        5           NA       A,E,EC,FA,S
Dec        1981
Appraisal           May/June  1982          15          27       A,E,EC,FA,I
DS,PR,RE,
Post Appraisal      Oct         1982      3            14        EC.FA.OP
Supervision         Sept   1983           3            30        EC,FA,OP
Jan    1984           2            11       OP,PS
Apr        1984        4           12       FA,ME,E.ID             2              1               F
Nov        1984        4           21       EC,A,E,FA              2               I              F
Feb    1985           1           12           OP
June       1985        4            15           NA                I               1               F
Nov        1985        3           15            NA                I              I              T,F
Jan    1986           I            5           EC
June       1986        4           44         A,E,IE(2)            I              I               M
Nov        1986        4           15         A,EC,F,PR            I              I               T
June       1987        5            12       A.IE,PR.TR            2              2              M.T
Dec    1987           4           17        A,IE.NA.NA
Feb    1988           3            3        A,IE.NA
Mid Term Review    Jan          1989        4           19            NA               2               2             M.T,F
Supervision         Nov         1989        5           30       A.EC,FA.E(2)          3               3             F
Mar        1990        4            16      A,EC.FA,E              2              3               T
Oct        1990        3           19       A,E,PR                 2              2               T
May        1991        2           16       A.E                    2              2               M
Oct        1991        2           11       A.E                    2              2              T.F
Apr        1992        2           15       A,E                    2              2               F
Sept       1992        2           15       E,OP,                  2              1               F
Dec        1992        4            9       A.E.PR(2)              2              2               T
Apr        1993        1            8       E                      2              2               T
Completion          Sept       1994         4           19'      A(2),EC,E
A: Agriculturalist; C: Consultant; E: Irrigation Engineer; EC: Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; ID:
Institutional Development Specialist; ME: Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist; NA: Not Available; OP:
Operations Officer; PR: Procurement Specialist; RE: Roads Engineer; S: Sociologist; TR: Training
Specialist.
-' F: Financial; M: Management; T: Technical.
3 WB missions only to participate in the review of project preparation.
41    The same mission also carried out the ICR for the Agricultural Research, Extension and Training project
(Cr. 1639-SU). Draft ICR prepared by FAO/CP.












S U D A N 
GEZIRA REHABILITATION                               0"o ,- ,    3
PROJECT                                                                                                                ,
Location of Project Area
o     LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
TRICVER . EIG    SCIIEASES                                          ARAB         REPUBLIC   .OF     EGYPT
RIVERS EEIIJASTC
LAILES
-RONINCIAL EOUAL     OARIES
INTERR,ATIO-AL 8OUNIDARIES  ,                                                                           I
,o.                                    I            NO   R  T H  F R I   j                                                            E  D
!,,-h,                                     S Eongob   A             Pori Sudan
CHAD                                                                                    r                           b j
Alb),                          oT~~ikQ  0kar J\
------ -----                                   0  4, --Shend            '--1,-A i
j~~~~ ~ ~~                         ~ ~~~~~~       ~     ~~~ - - _  -  -e   - -X - -,2h d    __ - -- - -
E  MIAIN NNILE
I'    I                           / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNAI    N              EC *)-~1~
"I                                       \ N      "R         T    H  I  S'   R   N
; D     A    R     f      U      R                                  .  lra   Ed                                             '
6                    o                              J                   _                  VI- lF.her I    R   D   O F    A    /V
Zt.A Zingr                                     E.- Nau           Enlobud t,  AGRA
\N O    U T H  E RN Nx ~                             .,
,  15 D     A     R      F     U R   N                                         aa 1ba mESLIK / 
0        I                           OSOC PUMP SCOAMES~0 k4i      IatT0     IST.   .            /
GeIIa1.D   A   R                  lFU   R   \    K 0  R  D   0  F  A  N   ,                            N            R&NTAJ  1                            '
J                                                                                                                                     J", I~~~~~~~V    U,RoRo  OT
Ry./                                                                                                                                                                      V-Lr \\\\u,,   x   /           ~ y~~"' /)l
Nyo'lo *      '---'--7-< I                       F(                           / l f'                 E  T H   I O   P I A
--7    B A  Hi-R, ,  -t                                                     
CE                0   T AFRICAN                                      oN   F   Z                U   N   G,  
R EP U  BL1IC                       r---- ---          ---1 b  tJH   L-.Y RA  TAzKR                                 \{
<   )  >>   ,,J  |<__z  080r    4        '              8~~~~~~~J NA,
CENTRAL AFRICAN                        "                      W E S r EN                   J'N.'t A S T 5 R IV
( \t 2_J _~~~~~~~^ fF CvoU T O R / ~~~~~~~~.a_,                                            0 L    < U  A  T O  R   I A  Vt'
.A  F                                                                             .aYe,j      t           \ /  ;}  
REPUBLIC :REPUBLIC  OF   ZAIREUH                                           RT
X   t S 1   < \; AFR3EDre=_+a>                                        ~            ()      A    A     N    DA A  NKENYA_
REULCO    AR                                           OTt                                                       ,~N






IBRD 16494
IARA  REGUD .C OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUNE 1Q82
LIBYA r                        ;                       SCOMBICED oMoc.                                                                                                                                                            SUDAN
'I r                  ;                                          EE ,N                                                                                                                                          GEZIRA AND MANAGIL
CHAol
YHAFIOuMC   *                                                                         1.  ;-              's                                                                         IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM
E-_ s    DvA N     f                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C-1, -  a   x
kfT"IOL*JA2"
ARRICQN                                                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sodcn RnIdoy
N                                                                                                                                                          *    Irri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1gat '0n PumPing Stco,,On
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A  N                                                                                                                                                      U     ?n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Popo.-d Sypplmo
ZAIRE    WuN.~uiB    YENTA                                                                                                                                                                01Drm-og. Pump Stations
S  Spph..% Unde, C-1al
_W-__, n' Q * '._ .............i.tT..Y W...r  Drain'  ^ _ERBtMist
/  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~         ---M0ajr DPOi.B PEapBod
ua'.rww.r. ..o.a.r.mo.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            for ConsTrucTion or RftconKmRu--,ct
_             ASD Li ..CZ...Z  ~  NORTH  EST SENN.-
-S    , RTECTINE DRAIN
C     -I-                      BAAAS
WAD 
MEDAN-I












