Document of
The World Bank                                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3587-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 74.2 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 20, 1983
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Sudanese Pounds (L.S)           =       100 piastre
LSd 1.00                        =       US$2.0 (official 1980/81)
LSd 1.00                        =       US$1.25 (parallel 1980/81)
LSd 1.00                        =       US$1.1 (Nlov. 1981-Nov. 1982)
LSd 1.00                        =       US$0.77 (since Nov. 1982)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =       0.62 miles (m)
1 sq. km (kmi)                  -       0.3886 sq mi (mi2)
1 metric ton (mit)              =       2,205 polnds (lb)
1 liter (1)                     =       0.264 ga:Llons (gal)
1 feddan (fd)                   =       1.04 acres
1 kantar                        =       143 kg
1 kilowatt (kw)                 =       1.36 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS       Agricuiltural Bank of Sudan
ARC       Agriculture Research Corporation
ARP       Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
AWP       Annua'l Work Program
BNHP      Blue Nile Health Project:
CPC       Cotton Public Corporation
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EAP       Export: Action Program
EEC       European Economic Community
ELS       Extra Long Staple Cotton
EMC       Earth Moving Corporation
GLR       Gezira Light Railway
GOS       Government of Sudan
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
IDA       International Development Association
MOAI      Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation;
MOAI(I)   MOAI Irrigation Department
MOFEP    .Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOH       Ministry of Health
MS        Mediumi Staple Cotton
PMC        Project Management Committee
PPC        Project Procurement Committee
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RPMU      Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
RWA       Rural Water Administration
SCPO      Sudan Company for Processing of Oilseeds
SGB       Sudan Gezira Board
SOC       Sudan Oilseeds Corporation
SPTC      Sudan Public Telecomiunications Corporation
WHO       World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:   Sudan Gezira Board (SGB); Agricultural Research
Corporation (ARC); Ministry of Health (MOH); Rural Water
Administration (RWA); Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MOAI); and Sudan Public Telecommunications
Corporation (SPTC).
Amount:           SDR 74.2 million (US$80.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard
Onlending         US$49.8 million to be onlent to Sudan Gezira Board at 14
percent interest, 20 year repayment including 5 years
Terms             grace, with the Government bearing the foreign exchange
risk; the balance to be made available as budgetary
transfers/grants to the MOAI, MOH, SGB, RWA, SPTC and ARC.
Project           The project would, over a 5 year period, raise crop yields
Description:      and production through the rehabilitation of the Gezira
irrigated area and its supporting services, thereby
increasing foreign exchange earnings in line with the
Government's overall strategy of achieving better
utilization of existing capital investments.
Specifically, the project would: improve the Gezira
irrigation, drainage, and pumping systems; rehabilitate
the infrastructure including roads, communication network,
railway, staff housing and ginneries; provide critical
inputs such as farm machinery; improve farmer training,
research, and extension; and support improved health
through schistosomiasis control and sanitary water
systems. Beneficiaries would be 102,000 tenant families,
200,000 migrant laborers and 80,000 permanent laborers
plus the general benefit to the country from an expanded
level of export earnings. Project risks include possible
shortages of foreign exchange for needed inputs, low world
cotton prices, uncertainty as to tenant farmer reactions,
and adequacy of management to administer the system.
Provision has been made in the project design to minimize
these risks to the extent possible.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Summary of Project Costs.
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
PE'OJECT COST SUMMARY
Amount (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign  Total
A. Irrigation                                  10.7    10.9     21.6
B. Drainage System                             11.8    11.2     23.0
C. Pumping Stations                             2.0     4.5      6.5
D. Sennar Dam                                   1.7     2.5      4.2
E. SGB Agricultural Machinery and Equipment   2.2    10.1       12.3
F. Extension, Farmer Training & Research        2.1     3.5      5.6
G. Workshops & Fuel Supply                      5.8    10.5     16.3
H. Vehicles                                    10.3     8.2     19.0
I. Roads                                       1.7      2.9      4.6
J. Telecommunications                           3.1     8.6     11.8
K. Gezira Light Railway                         1.4     3.6      5.0
L. Ginneries, Cotton Handling, and Storage    7.2    14.1       21.3
M. Schistosomiasis Program                      0.4     5.6       6.0
N. Rural Water Supply                          8.2      7.1     15.3
0. Staff Housing                                5.8     3.5      9.3
P. Rehabilitation Project Management Unit      2.7      1.7      4.4
Q. SGB Management Information System            1.3     2.5      3.9
R. Training                                     1.8     2.4      4.2
S. Other Technical Assistance                   0.3     1.5      1.8
T. Studies                                      1.2     1.2      2.4
Total Baseline Costs                           82.5   116.2    198.6
Physical Contingencies                       8.5    11.9      20.5
Price Contingencies                          21.9    21.7     43.6
Total Project Costs                          112.9   149.8    262.7 1/
Total Project Costs net of
Taxes and Duties                           76.9   149.8    225.8
1/ Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$36.9 million.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                               US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                            3.6          76.4      80.0
Arab Fund                       -           50.0      50.0
Government of Italy             -            7.0       7.0
Others to be arranged           -           16.4      16.4
Government of Sudan           72.4            -       72.4
76.0        149.8    225.8
Taxes and Duties              36.9            -       36.9
Total Project Cost           112.9         149.8    262.7
Estimated Disbursements for IDA Credit:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year:   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Annual                .3      5.8   21.1   17.4   16.9   10.2    8.3
Cumulative            .3      6.1   27.2   44.6   61.5   71.7   80.0
Rate of Return:       35.8 percent based on 100 percent of project costs.
Appraisal Report:   No. 4218-SU dated May 15, 1983
Map:                  IBRD No.  16493



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan for SDR 74.2 million (US$80
million equivalent) to help finance a project for the rehabilitation of the
Gezira Irrigation Scheme. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. Most
of the proceeds would be onlent to the Sudan Gezira Board (SGB) for 20
years, including 5 years grace, with interest at 14 percent per annum.
Co-financing will be provided by several co-lenders on a parallel financing
basis and at terms as elaborated in Paragraph 43 of Part IV, for a total of
about US$73 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1981.  Its Report
No. 3551a-SU of February 16, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. The findings of the mission are reflected below. An economic
mission visited Sudan in January 1983 and a report will be issued shortly.
Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 18.5 million (1980
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country.  Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$380 (1981 Atlas methodology). /  Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land.  Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. The
construction of an export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is currently
under consideration. The public sector has long been important in the
Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
1/   Based on the nominal effective exchange rates for the period 1978/79 -
1980/81. Based on the official exchange rate as of November 15, 1982
of LSd 1.00 = US$0.769, per capita GNP would be about $260.



-2
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudani is the balance of
payments crisis. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1980/81, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$700 million.  Further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficit of close
to $1 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves have fallen to only a
few days worth of imports. By end 1982, externa:L payments arrears had
accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.         The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces --
reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and
absorptive capacity constraints.
6.         The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1980/81. The
decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift
from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton production in 1980/81 was only 40 percent of the 1970/71
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did poor maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.         The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because oif absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the
first few years, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $264 million in
1977.  Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad.  The Government: decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. As the reserves ran out, the
accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Annual external public debt
service payments falling due increased from $55 maillion in 1972/73 to more
than $800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over
100 percent in 1982/83. The reasons were (a) the huge amount: of external
borrowing in 1974-77; and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the



-3-
borrowing was on relatively hard terms. This unfavorable debt profile has
not only led to a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical
implications for future debt service obligations.
8.         The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 44
percent in 1976/77.  Although the expansion has slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25
percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, is anticipated to rise
again in 1982/8 3 to around 30 percent. The expansion of the money supply
has contributed to an acceleration in annual price increases from 6 percent
in the early 1970s to over 25 percent now. Most of the increases in
current expenditures have been for social and community services, transfers
to local government, and general administration. The sharp increases in
general administration expenditures were due in large part to rising wages
and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost of living
subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax
revenues have increased over the past few years; but since the tax system
is relatively inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with
frequent new tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the
relative contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.         Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, restore
export growth through appropriate policies and public investments, improve
the performance o-f the public corporations, and install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
(a)  Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.        In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.        In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and



- 4 -
liquor.  Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = USS1.11; (ii) reduction of budgetary subsidy
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii) measures
designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion. These measures,
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were t:aken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 = US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (para.
18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative
Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this Meeting,
together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club
in February 1983 (para. 17) enabled the Fund to approve a new Stand-by
Arrangement for 1983 for a tot:al amount of SDR 170 million.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had declined
further, but began a substantiLal recovery in 1981/82 with a 51 percent
increase in production volume (59 percent for the irrigated sub-sector).
Several investments in the irrigated subsector are aimed at reversing this
deteriorating trend. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit
No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about
US$11 million), funds were available for urgently needed spare parts and
equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be carried out in the
1980s (the New Halfa Rehabilit:ation Project, approved in May 1980, was the
first of these, followed by projects for the Blue and White Nile and more
recently for the Gezira irrigated area). In addition, several policy
measures have been taken in the areas of cost recovery, cotton marketing,
and institutional reform (para. 28).
14.        Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level that was consistent with expected external and
domestic financial resources. In 1979 the Government completed the first
Three-Year Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81.
This Program has been updated twice; the latest investment program covering
the period 1982/83-1984/8 5 was incorporated into the medium-term recovery
program mentioned above.



- 5-
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. For example, in September 1979, the
Government announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized
corporate structure in agriculture and replaced it with more autonomous
agricultural entities. Organizational reforms have also been implemented
in the industrial and commercial sectors. During the past 12 months the
Government has substantially increased the prices for products of public
corporations to improve their financial positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.        As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1982 amounted to around US$7.8 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1983 exceed US$800 million. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively.  Funds are
allocated under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1153-SU) to assist
in debt management. Following the recent Consultative Group meeting, the
Government adopted revised structures and procedures which should help to
improve debt management.
17.        Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a resc'heduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981. A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "international finance
coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with six years grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
have also been made with the commercial banks and agreements are expected
soon with other creditors.
New Recovery Program
18.        The Government issued the medium-term recovery program entitled
Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic Development:
1982/83-1984/85 (para. 12), in December 1982.  In addition to an austere



-  6  -
three-year public investment program focused on economic recovery,
primarily through rehabilitation of the export sector and economically
efficient import substitution (especially in sugar), this document
contained macro projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term
nature of the recovery process and a set of shorl:-and-medium-term policy
objectives covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand
management, resource allocation and external resource mobilization. At the
Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on January 12-14, 1983, the
Government requested program and project aid as well as substantial debt
relief to support the recovery program. After intensive disc:ussions, the
donor countries present concluded that the program was well conceived, and
expressed intentions to provide levels of assistance adequate to support
the program during 1983 if adequate debt relief were forthcoming.
Subsequently, the Paris Club met and agreed on rescheduling which was, in
the opinion of the Bank and the IMF, within Sudan's ability to pay. These
agreements in turn permitted the IMF Standby Arrangement to be activated.
If the Government builds on the progress which has been made by staying
within the terms of the Dl4F Standby Arrangement, keeping the exchange rate
realistic, continuing to encourage agricultural output by maintaining
adequate price levels for crops, and by adhering to its announced
development strategy for the next several years, a slow but steady
improvement in the balance of payments situation can be anticipated.
19.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long term debt service
is about 2 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1980/81) and of debt
outstanding and disbursed is almost 10 percent. It is estimaLted that the
Bank/IDA share of debt service will drop to 1 percent in 1984/85 when the
Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 12 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONiS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$792.1 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are :[FC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 31 credlits for a
total of 36 projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation. About
54 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural
development: six irrigation projects; three rainfed mechanized farming
projects; four smallholder development projects; a livestock marketing
project; an agricultural research project; an Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program; and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, two education projects, two highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industri'al credit
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loarLs, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and noites on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementing deve:Lopment projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difi'iculties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries, where job opportunities are better, takes



its toll on effective preparation and implementation of projects. Largely
as a result of these problems, the Savannah Development Project (Credit
718-SU of June 24, 1977) has had to be redesigned into a much smaller pilot
project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the Domestic Aviation Project (Loan
1287-T); Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976) encountered serious delays and cost
overruns and has had to be terminated. There have also been lengthy delays
in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in
establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff,
completing necessary legal documentation, or concluding required
co-financing arrangements. These problems have been brought to the
attention of Government authorities, and steps have been taken to resolve
some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
Difficulties encountered in project implementation are reflected in Sudan's
disbursement performance. The disbursement rate, i.e. actual disbursements
during the year as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning
of the year, declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81,
but in FY82 the rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent as compared with a
rate of 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.9 percent Bank-wide.
Strategy
22.       The Bank Group strategy has been to encourage the Government to
undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at addressing the
structural imbalances in the economy. The Government, with assistance from
the Bank and the IMF, has developed an economic recovery program, which
formed the basis for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a
Standby Agreement with the IMF (para. 12). In broad outline, this program
concentrates Government resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital
investments, particularly those which can contribute to expanding export
earnings, while restraining investment in new projects. At the project
level, IDA has continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated
agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in
infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU of April 4, 1980) which was just
completed was effective in providing badly needed spare parts and
replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the
Government to take some important steps toward improving incentives to
farmers through better cotton prices and costing arrangements for the
irrigated schemes. IDA lending will continue to be concentrated in the
agricultural-sector and for critical infrastructure during the next two
years, with proposed projects in sugar rehabilitation, a further
agricultural rehabilitation program, electric power expansion, and highway
maintenance.
Relationship to other Aid Flows
23.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. This
relationship is expected to continue at about the same level during the
next several years.



- 8 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAI, SECTOR
24.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 40 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports. The Bank published a
survey of the Agricultural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a
review of the sector is included in the Bank economic report
"Sudan-Investing for Economic Stabilization and Structural Change issued
in February 1982 (Report No. 3551a-SU).
The Irrigation Subsector
25.       The first large-scale gravity irrigated project in Sudan was
started in the 1920's at Gezira, iinitially for the cultivation of cotton as
an export crop. There are nmr five major irrigation schemes: Gezira-
Managil (2 million feddans), New Halfa (0.4 million feddans), Rahad (0.3
million feddans), and the Blue and White Nile Pump schemes covering 0.7
million feddans. About 50 percent of agricultural export earnings were
derived from cotton in the 1970-80) decade, mostly from the irrigation
schemes. Groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic contributed a total of 25
percent. The most striking feature of agricultural export patterns in the
seventies was the sharp decline in the volume of exports of Sudan's
traditional cash crops, long staple (ELS) cotton, sesame and groundnuts.
The annual export volume of these three crops averaged only 81,000 tons,
41,000 tons and 43,000 tons, respectively during the 1979-81 period,
compared to 168,000 tons, 70,0OO tons and 99,000 tons in 1972-74.   Only
because the terms of trade were in Sudan's favor during the period, both
for cotton and for oilseeds, was the decline in value not .more dramatic.
Nevertheless, the reduction in agricultural exports has played a major part
in Sudan's current economic difficulties.
26.       There are many causes for this decline,, The maintenance of
existing irrigation schemes has been neglected in favor of new expansion.
Crop diversification and intensification in the early seventies placed a
strain on delivery of inputs and management. The flight of skilled
manpower to neighbouring oil-producing countries compounded the problem.
Perhaps most important, the Government, its weak fiscal base strained for
cash to finance new investments, held the producer price for cotton low so
as to maximize short-term budgetary revenues. Cotton ceased to be an
attractive crop for tenants, who increasingly devoted more attention to
other crops and off-farm activities, while producing corporations were
unable to cover maintenance costs and replace equipment. Declining exports
also led to shortages of the foreign exchange needed to buy spare parts and
inputs.  These inputs were delivered late, cultivation techniques
deteriorated, and yields of aLl crops fell.
27.       The pattern of production relations developed at Gezira, the
oldest and largest scheme, has served as a model for the others. After
attempts to use wage labor and a rental system failed, a partnership was



-  9  -
developed based on the traditional allocation of crop shares on lands
adjacent to the scheme. Profits were divided between the Government,
responsible for developing and providing irrigation to the land, a
corporation responsible for agricultural services, and tenants, responsible
for supplying labor, seed, tools and farm animals. Under this system, most
of the items of expenditure incurred by agricultural corporations for the
different crops grown on the tenancies were deducted from the total
revenues received from cotton sales by the corporation concerned. The net
revenues from cotton were then distributed in Gezira (and along a similar
pattern in other schemes) as follows: 36 percent to the Government for
land use, dam and canal maintenance and provision of water; 10 percent to
the corporations for meeting overhead costs; and 47 percent to the
tenants. A further 2 percent was set aside for a local government tax, 3
percent for a Social Services Fund and 2 percent for a Tenants' Reserve
Fund. The tenants' share was then divided by total scheme production of
seed cotton to arrive at a price per kantar of seed cotton payable to each
tenant. The Joint Account created a strong bias in the minds of tenants
against cotton. Input costs were recovered per kantar of cotton produced
rather than per feddan of area planted. This penalized the more productive
cotton growers, whose actual per kantar costs were lower. Over the years
the tenants' share increased from 40 percent to 47 percent although
increasing responsibilities, for instance sowing and fertilizer
application, had been transferred to the corporations. Consequently, the
corporations increasingly lacked revenue to discharge their responsibili-
ties effectively. The most serious consequences of the Joint Account
System, however, were felt when cotton yields fell at the same time as
other crops became increasingly important. These crops are privately
marketed and input costs cannot be recovered at sale. Therefore, land and
water costs for these crops were recovered from cotton revenues. Cotton,
bearing the burden of these other charges, therefore became less and less
attractive to tenants.
Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports
28.       Recognizing the severity of the problem, the Government, with the
Bank, drew up the Export Action Program (EAP) (para. 13) in 1980 designed
to restore production to the levels of the early 1970s. The EAP contains
provision for: (i) urgently needed investments aimed at satisfying
requirements for spare parts, machinery and equipment in order to arrest
decapitalization which has plagued the subsector; (ii) allocation of
foreign exchange to finance larger imports of current inputs of which there
has been a serious shortage; (iii) a series of rehabilitation projects,
with IDA support, to be carried out in the 1980s, principally in the major
agricultural schemes where cotton is grown; and (iv) policy reforms and
other actions such as institutional reforms and revision of the incentive
systems intended to stimulate greater production. In line with the
strategy embodied in the EAP, IDA also financed projects for the
rehabilitation of the New Halfa (Credit 1022-SU), Blue Nile Pump (Credit
1118-SU), and White Nile Pump (Credit 1119-SU) schemes. All rehabilitation
projects include measures to improve management capabilities, such as the
design of regular work programs and improved financial management,
technical assistance and training.



- 10 -
29.        The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program of US$76 million (IDA
Credit 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Program of US$11
million) financed urgently needed requirements for spare parts, machinery
and equipment in order to arrest the decapitalization of the 1970s, in
addition to studies in support of policy refonns. This credit was
disbursed over a two-year period. Three reports of particular importance
to irrigated production have resulted from ARP financed studies. They are:
(a) "Study of Cost Recovery in the Irrigated Agricultural Sector"; (b)
"Study of Cotton Marketing"; and (c) "Administrative Review of the
Irrigation Sector". These studies drew up recommendations for policy
reform which may be grouped under four main headings: (i) Improvement of
cost recovery and reform of accounting systems: (ii) Reform of cotton
pricing mechanism; (iii) Improvement of cotton processing and marketing
systems; and (iv) Improvement of Government support and supervision of
parastatals. Progress towards implementing these reforms is described in
the following paragraphs.
30.        Cost Recovery and Accounting System.  In June 1980, the
Government announced that the Joint Account System would be abolished and
replaced by an individual accounting system. T'enants would be charged for
each input for each individual crop. Accounts would be kept separately for
each tenant, and debts would be recorded for cash advances, inputs,
services and land and water charges primarily on a per feddan basis. On
this basis, farmers would receive a much larger share of their marginal
increases in production, thus increasing the incentive to produce. With
effect from 1981/82, the individual account system has been introduced on
all schemes.
31.        Reform of Cotton Pricing.  Also in JtLne 1980, the Government
announced two other reforms. The first was to announce publicly, each year
before harvest, a producer price for cotton. I'he second was to pay tenants
their cotton incomes promptly on delivery of seed cotton on the basis of
the new individual account system. As a result, tenants were, for the
first time in over half a century, able to estimate incomes from cotton
reliably since distortions caused by uncertainty over prices, unpredictable
cashflows, and adjustments oi non-cotton charges against cotton sale
proceeds were eliminated. This gave them the opportunity to make rational
decisions on allocation of efforts between tending the cotton crop and
other competing claims on their time and has contributed to the remarkable
improvement in productivity achieved in the last two years. Cotton prices
for the 1980/81, 1981/82 and 1982/83 seasons were announced in early
December each year. The prices announced were found to be acceptable to
the Association, and have proven to be high enough to provide tenant
farmers with an incentive to increase production, as indicated by the
results achieved during the past two crop years.
32.        Improvement to Cott:on Processing and Marketing.  Cotton is
exported by the Sudan Cotton Public Corporation (CPC) which generally
obtains favourable prices for cotton exports. However, teclnnical and
institutional improvements are needed so that it can operate on more



- 11 -
commercial lines. These issues are being addressed during the preparation
of a Cotton Marketing Project. The agricultural corporations, primarily
responsible for production, also have responsibility for cotton ginning.
While most of the ginneries are owned by the corporations, a few private
sector ginneries also operate on contract with them.
33.        Support and Supervision of Parastatals.  An important decision
taken by Government in November 1981 was to amalgamate the ministries of
agriculture and irrigation into a single Ministry for Agriculture and
Irrigation (MOAI). In June 1981, the statutes of a limited number of
parastatal companies were revised to permit their operation on a more
autonomous basis. Thus an important beginning was made in reorganizing the
parastatal sector. Another notable accomplishment was the establishment,
through the ARP, of a strong procurement capability within the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MOFEP) with the establishment of a Program
Procurement Committee (PPC). Plans are now under way to establish a unit
in the MOAI, staffed with competent specialists, to review and revise
ministry accounting, to monitor and evaluate performance of all
parastatals, and to extend technical assistance and evaluate the impact of
governmental policies on them. This unit will be supported under the Blue
Nile Rehabilitation Project. The proposed Project would support a Project
Management Unit in MOAI which would inter alia deal with external donors,
coordinate among government agencies and departments, review annual work
programs, coordinate procurement, monitor progress, conduct studies and
extend technical support to the various project entities.
Results achieved
34.        On the whole, available evidence indicates that the Export Action
Program has reversed the downward slide in production and productivity.
After a further decline in 1980/81, irrigated cotton production increased
59 percent in 1981/82 compared to the previous year, and another 21 percent
in 1982/83 compared to 1981/82. Other crops also have made impressive
gains in the past two years.
Future Prospects for Gezira
35.        Gezira makes a major contribution to the national economy and its
rehabilitation would be a significant element of Sudan's program for
economic recovery. During the 1970's it produced about 60 percent of the
nation's cotton, 35 percent of its groundnuts, 75 percent of its wheat and
10 percent of its sorghum. In 1979, its total share in export earnings,
largely from cotton, was 47 percent. Although production declined sharply
at Gezira between 1970 and 1980, it still has a strong management and has
been less affected than other Government institutions by the flight of
manpower to the Gulf. With the addition of the proposed project, IDA will
be financing projects for the rehabilitation of most of the irrigated
sub-sector in Sudan.



-  12  -
_'ART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
36.        This project builds on the progress made under the Export Action
Program supported by IDA Credit 1000-SU, approximately one--half of which
was used in support of the Gezira irrigation area (paragraphs 28 and 29).
The Government of Sudan requested support for this project as a natural
evolution in the Bank's involvement with the other irrigated schemes, as
described in Parts II and III. A comprehensive feasibility study was
completed in March 1982 which was the basis for the staff appraisal of the
project.  The project was appraised in May/June and October 1982, and the
Staff Appraisal Report (No.4218-SU dated May 13, 1983) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project information
is contained in Annex III. Negotiations were conducted in April 1983.
Project Strategy and Objectives
37.        The project will provide the physical resources needed to restore
the Gezira irrigated area to its maximum production potential.  The policy
measures associated with the credit are designed to assure that
agricultural prices remain at levels adequate t:o provide production
incentives to farmers and are announced on a timely basis, that the
recently adopted cost recove:ry arrangements are maintained and improved,
and that longer term arrangerments for the use of Nile Waters are made in an
orderly basis. In addition, the project will support trials and studies
needed for upgrading technology and restructuring institutional
arrangements, setting the stage for further modernization of the sector.
The credit also provides for Government efforts to assure an adequate level
of recurrent inputs, and this important requirement will also be supported
by a proposed IDA credit for a Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Program.
38.       Over a five year period the Project would be expected to raise
crop yields and production and thereby increase foreign exchange earnings
in line with the Government's overall strategy of achieving better
utilization of existing capital investments. Specific Project objectives
would be to: (a) generate about US$360 million annually in additional
foreign exchange earned or saved (1988 constant prices); (lb) improve the
incomes of 102,000 tenant families, 200,000 migrant laborers and 80,000
permanent laborers and sharecroppers; and (c) contribute to the
improvement in health standards through a reduction of schistosomiasis and
malaria.
Project Description
39.        The project would rehabilitate the 0.9 million hectare Gezira
irrigation area through improvements in the irrigation system, workshops,
farm machinery, road and communications networks, railway, ginneries, and
staff housing. It would also expand health care, sanitary water supply,



-  13  -
training and improve the management information system, research and
extension capabilities at Gezira. Specifically, the project comprises the
following parts2/:
A. Irrigation (US$21.6 million)
Repair and replacement of damaged and worn out canal regulator
structures and gates, steel pipes and regulator doors for night storage
weirs and pipe regulators on the minor canals, installation of vertical
slide gates at field outlet points, installation of water level gauges and
repairs to masonry, bridge parapets, store pitching and earthworks for
bridge ramps; provision of loaders, tipper lorries and elevating graders
to improve annual maintenance of canal banks and drains, technical
assistance for upgrading the irrigation operation and maintenance
organization, overseas training for MOAI(I) staff, and incremental
maintenance costs; and support to research into chemical and biological
weeding methods, using herbicides and Chinese grasscarp.
B.   Drainage Systems (US$23.0 million)
Improvement of the drainage system, through the excavation of
silt in major drains, the excavation of main drains, the reconstruction of
minor drains, the construction of drainage pumping stations, the
acquisition of the mobile pumps, the construction of syphons, the
installation of road crossings along major drains, and provision of
incremental maintenance costs.
C.. Pumping Stations (US$6.5 million)
Rehabilitation of pumps at the Wad Haddad East and West, Tambul,
Hag Abdulla, Shawl 1 and 2, Rabaa, Gundal and Guneid pump stations and
replacement of the existing Mezagila pumping station by an electrically
driven pumping station.
D.   Sennar Dam (US$4.2 million)
Repair and maintenance at the Sennar Dam, including the repair of
gates, overhauling of cranes and upgrading of mechanical equipment and
workshop facilities.
E.   Agricultural Machinery (US$12.3 million)
Prevision of required farm machinery for SGB to enable it to
carry out prescribed farm operations for cotton and for clearing the canals
known as Abu VI and Abu XX on the scheme, including tractors, farm
implements (mainly disc ploughs, ridgers, levellers and strippers), and
incremental machinery operating costs of SGB; engagement of an
2/   All amounts in this section are shown at baseline cost in March 1983
prices. Incremental operating costs are given for the five year
period.



- 14 -
internationally recruited agricultural machinery specialist to improve
performance in this area; and. experimentation on improved cultivation
techniques, including gradual replacement of disc and root ploughs and
ridges by chisel ploughs.
F.   Extension, Farmer Training and Research (US$5.6 million)
(a) Technical staff to assist SGB and ARC to develop and introduce
improved production technology and carry out adaptive research on improving
local cultivation practices and the introduction, where possible, of high
yielding varieties suitable to the main production zones. I]n addition, ARC
would develop agronomic research programs for the improvement of the crops
grown in the Scheme. This would be supported by two pilot schemes in which
on-farm trials would be carried out on selected crops. Equipment and
expenses for ARC and local research stations would be provided together
with tractors, implements, laboratory equipment, and incremental operating
costs of ARC.
(b) Introduction of a training and visit extension system on a phased
basis in two groups of the Gezira Scheme through restructuring the existing
inspectoral system. The field inspectors would assume most of the
extension responsibilities under the supervision of an Extension
Coordinator. Provision would be made for overseas training of eight field
inspectors besides the Extension Coordinator, a training center with office
for the extension department of SGB and for training of field staff through
30 training courses conducted over the five year implementation period.
Project activities would include regular training of field staff,
establishment of stronger linkcs with local research stations, and a
continuous flow of relevent messages and field demonstrations.  Farming
communities would be reached through samads (local leaders) and "contact"
farmers. The Project would strengthen and imprcove farmer education and
training services by supplying the Extension Department with new
audio-visual and printing equipment, strengthening its agricultural
information and education staff, and improving the transfer of agricultural
knowledge to both tenants and field workers through revamping the community
television network operating irom Wad Medani.
(c) Strengthening of the Seed Propagation Department of SGB. The
seed quality of cotton, wheat, sorghum and groundnuts would be improved
through provision of equipment and strengthening of the role of ARC in
field operations. Technical assistance would be provided and overseas
training would also be available for four seed specialists.
G.    Workshops and Fuel Supp.y (UJS$16.3 million)
Upgrading and extension of the facilities of SGB and MOAI(I)
workshops located throughout t:he scheme. Group tractor service centers
would be established and group service centers extended.  Financing would
be provided for extension and improvement of existing workshops equipment
and spares for all workshops standby generators and fuel storage.



- 15 -
Assistance in the form of overseas training, an applied research unit, an
internationally recruited workshop management adviser, and incremental
operating costs would also be financed.
H.    Motor Vehicles (US$19.0 million)
Provision of motor vehicles to ensure mobility of field staff and
supervision and delivery of services to farmers. This will include light,
two-wheel and four-wheel drive vehicles, lorries, fuel tankers, and fire
lorries for the SGB, light and four-wheel drive vehicles and lorries for
MOAI (I), and lorries and light mobile maintenance units for RWA.
I.    Roads (US$4.6 million)
Spot repairs and deferred and annual maintenance on 6,000 km of
roads which are used frequently by lorries. Most of these roads lie along
canals or drains. Road graders would be provided to support this activity.
J.    Telecommunications (US$11.8 million)
Installation of an independent network consisting of three
telephone exchanges and a multiaccess rural system for the use of
SGB/MOAI(I).  The network would have a capacity of 1,500 lines.  The
existing exchange at Barakat would be expanded to 1,000 lines and switching
centers installed at El Gorashi and Abu Usher. The network would be linked
to the public system at Wad Medani through Barakat, and would be integrated
with it as the SPTC masterplan is implemented. Funds would be provided
under a PPF for the detailed survey necessary to determine final design and
sources of power for each subscriber. The network would be owned, operated
and maintained by SPTC and the cost of services paid for by SGB and
MOAI(I).
K.    Gezira Light Railway (US$5.0 million)
Improvement of GLR operating capability in the Project Area,
through (i) the acquisition of motorized and hand pump trolleys, elevating
motor graders and handtools for corrective maintenance of tracks, (ii) the
replacement of about 38 km of 12.4 kg/m track by 17.4 kg/m rails, (iii) the
rehabilitation of the wagon fleet by replacing worn-out wagon running parts
and provision of tanker wagons, (iv) replacement of engines for existing
locomotives, and (v) technical assistance to GLR for improving operations,
track maintenance, and workshop capabilities.
L.    Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage (US$21.3 million)
Mechanization of three of the nine labor intensive ginning
factories. This would increase total ginning capacity of these factories
by 106 bales per day. These three and the existing mechanized factories
would be fitted with pre-cleaning and humidification equipment to raise
lint grades. Factory workshops and factory and yard infrastructure would
be improved. Two new saw-gins would be installed to handle the increased



- 16 -
output of medium-staple cotton on the scheme as well as a seed dressing
plant. Funds would be providLed under a PPF for preparing specifications
and engineering requirements for ginneries works to be implemented in
Project year 1. Improved storage and handling facilities would also be
provided for cotton awaiting ginning. Hard sur faces would be constructed
equipment would be provided for mechanical handling and provision made for
incremental operating costs.
M.    Schistosomiasis Program (US$6.0 million)
Measures to reduce the prevalence and intensity of
schistosomiasis infestation, including better water management practices
and installation of safe domestic water supplies. Major health education
measures would be introduced. BNHP would mount a program to kill snails
through the repeated applicaition of chemicals (focal mollusciciding) at
sites in canals where people frequently come in contact with water.
Concurrently, the population would be given mass treatment (praziquental)
tablets with a cure rate of about 90 percent. The program will start in
one area of the scheme initially, but would be extended during the Project
period to cover approximately 70 percent of the scheme.  Mass chemotherapy
would be followed by active screening annually and treatment of children
among whom prevalence is high. Passive case detection and treatment would
be extended to approximately 70 percent of the population on an ongoing
basis. The project would provide financing for praziquental tablets,
chemicals, vehicles, and incremental operating costs.
N.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$15.3 million)
Improvements and extensions to rural water supply systems in the
scheme area under the jurisdiLction of the RWA. Sixty already drilled and
capped wells would be provided with pumps and storage tanks. One hundred
slow sand filter treatment p].ants in the Managil Area would be
rehabilitated through improvement in plant operating controls, expansion of
filtration capacity and const:ruction of larger sedimentation basins. One
hundred forty five borewells equipped with handpumps would be provided to
unregistered villages. Four regiLonal maintenance workshops would be
constructed and equipped, and lorries andsmall mobile maintenance units
provided. Incremental maintenance costs would be financed under the
Project. Project staff would assist the activities of BNHP in community
participation and sanitation by establishing four slab manufacturing units
at regional maintenance workshops of the RWA. These would provide 50,000
latrine slabs for families in the Project area.
0.   Staff Housing and Utilities (US$9.3 million)
Construction of houses for SGB and MOAI (I) staff, including
canal gatemen, improvements in existing housing through the provision of
electricity, water supply andl sanitation to existing staff housing of SGB
and MOAI(I) staff, and provision of incremental maintenance costs.



-  17  -
P.    Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (US$4.4 million)
Establishment of a Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (RPMU)
in MOAI and a Project Procurement Committee under MOFEP. The Project would
fund the technical assistance positions in the unit and supporting staff
and services. The office would be established on September 30, 1983 using
a PPF.
Q.    SGB Management Information System (US$3.9 million)
Provision of data processing equipment and facilities and
vehicles for SGB's management information system. The incremental
operating costs including technical assistance consisting of three
specialists would be provided. Technical assistance costs would be
initially met by a PPF advance.    An action program, acceptable to the
Association, to strengthen existing systems would be finalized no later
than September 30, 1983.
R.    Training (US$4.2 million)
Expansion of the training capability within SGB and MOAI(I) for
most levels of SGB and MOAI(I) employees on the scheme. The Project would
fund the services of an internationally recruited training specialist to
assist SGB management in implementing training programs. Most training of
lower level personnel would be through in-house training programs. There
would be a special focus on supervisory and management training to take
account of the unusually high age profile of existing SGB senior staff.
Where training cannot be provided through suppliers contracts and Sudanese
training facilities are not available, training and study tours would be
provided abroad, especially in engineering (electrical, mechanical,
irrigation, telecommunications and railway), water management and
accounting. Additional training facilities would be provided to accommodate
Project needs. Funds would be provided under a PPF for engagement of a
training specialist for three months to draw up a detailed training program
based on an analysis of job definitions and tasks necessary to achieve
Project objectives. A detailed training program would be submitted to IDA
for review no later than September 30, 1983 (Section 3.01(b)(iii), Project
Agreement).
S.    Other Technical Assistance (US$1.8 million)
Expansion of SGB's media production capability to support
information and training programs, and to help local training institutions
through their involvement in project training activities. The Project
would also provide for carrying out of on-farm water management tests and
through a PPF fund the continuation of the on-farm water management
consultancy carried out at present at Rahad.
T.    Studies (US$2.4 million)
Studies to provide the information base and conduct the policy
analysis necessary to consider long term structural changes in the existing



- 18 -
tenurial and production sysl:em of the Gezira scheme.  After a desk study on
existing information (financed by a PPF), an initial survey covering about
750 households and an intensive survey covering about 200 households would
be carried out over a crop year. This would provide the farm level data
base necessary for additional specialized studies on the tenancy system,
credit, marketing, livestocLk and agricultural machinery use. Policy
analysis would be completed by project mid-term review planned for end
1986. The project would also provide funds for preparation of a
modernization program for the Gezira scheme. The studies would be
coordinated by an international]Ly recruited agricultural economist in the
RPMU.
Project Costs
40.       Total Project cost is estimated at US$263 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange component of US$150 million or 57 percent. Taxes and
duties amounting to US$37 million equivalent or 14 percent are included.
Project investment cost would be US$216 million equivalent while
incremental operating costs would amount to US$47 million equivalent.
Baseline Project costs (excluding physical and price contingencies) are
US$199 million equivalent. The cost per marr-month for consulting services
(986 man-months) is estimated at $9,700 per man-month on average.
41.       The cost estimates are based on June 1982 prices updated to end
March 1983 estimated baseline price levels and are derived from recent
quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical c:ontingency rates on Project
components are 10 percent on all items, except for weed research (part of
the irrigation system component), earthworks for the drainage system, road
upgrading, and certain engineering work to be carried out for the Gezira
Light Railway; the physical contingency rate in these cases is estimated to
be 15 percent.  Price contingencies total 20 percent of base costs plus
physical contingencies in US dollars.
42.       A PPF of US$0.6 million has been approved to cover the costs of:
(i) preparing the detailed survey for the telecommunications component;
(ii) preparing specifications and engineering for requirements for ginnery
work to be executed in Project year 1; (iii) establishment of RPMU office;
(iv) technical assistance needs of the management information system for
SGB; (v) technical assistance for preparation of a detailed training
program; (vi) continuation of studies of on-farm water management in the
Rahad project;and (vii) appointment of an internationally rescruited
agricultural economist.
Proposed Financing
43.        Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:



- 19 -
Gezira: Financing Plan a/
% of     % of
Local        Foreign                   Total    Net
Currency    Exchange    Total          Project   Project
Costs        Costs                     Costs    Costs
--------US$ million
1.  IDA Credit          3.6          76.4         80.0          30         34
2.  Other Co-
Financiers
(a) Arab Fund  b/  -             50.0        50.0           19         22
(b) Government
of Italy      -            7.0          7.0           3          4
3.  Others               -           16.4         16.4           7          8
4.  Government of
Sudan             72.4             -         72.4           27         32
Net Project Cost       76.0         149.8        225.8          86        100
Taxes & Duties         36.9            -          36.9          14
Total Project Cost  112.9           149.8        262.7         100
a/ Amounts include contingencies and are tentative.
b[/ For Social and Economic Development, Kuwait.
44.       The IDA Credit would provide financing for the following
components: SGB Agricultural Machinery and Equipment, Extension, Farmer
Training and Research, Workshops for SGB and MOAI(I), part of the vehicles
for SGB and MOAI(I), the Gezira Light Railway, the Schistosomiasis Program,
Rural Water Supply, Staff Housing for SGB and MOAI(I), the RPMU, the SGB's
Management Information System, Training, Other Technical Assistance and
Studies. The other components would be financed by cofinanciers, jointly
with GOS, as follows: The Government of Italy would finance certain
machinery and equipment for Canal Maintenance (part of the Irrigation
component), mobile drainage pumps for the Drainage System and the civil
works and machinery and part of the equipment for the Pumping Station
component; and the Arab Fund would finance the remainder of the Irrigation,
Drainage System and Pumping Stations components, as well as the Sennar Dam,
Roads and Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage components. Cofinancing
for the Telecommunications component and the balance of the vehicles would
be secured from other sources.



-  20  -
Credit Terms and Onlending Arrangements
45.       The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to the
Government. US$24.0 million of the IDA Credit would be passed on as
budgetary transfers/grants to the MOAI, SGB, MOH, RWA, SPTC and ARC.  GOS
would bear the foreign exchange risk and would onlend the balance of
US$49.8 million of the IDA Credit to SGB under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Since the exact breakdown between loan and grant: funds may vary
before the loan is consummated, the legal documents provide that the loan
amount will be between 45 and 50 million SDR's (Section 3.01(b),
Development Credit Agreement). Onlending would be for 20 years including 5
years grace at 14 percent interest.  The existing lending rate in Sudan is
9 percent for non-commercial enterprises and 12 percent for commercial
entities. The proposed rate has also to be viewed against the current
inflation rate of 25 percent, which is however likely to come down to about
15 percent by 1987/88. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
SGB would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a),
Development Credit Agreement). GOS share of expenditures on components
financed by IDA would be passed on to Project entities on the same basis as
IDA's contribution.
46.       Funds provided by cofinanciers for various Project components
would be passed on to Project entities on terms and conditions satisfactory
to such cofinanciers, as would the GOS share of expenditure on such
components. The Project, however, consists of a large number of relatively
independent components, and the timing of the startup of these components
varies. Therefore, it is not essential that all co-financing agreements be
consummated prior to startup of the project as long as reasonable
assurances of full financing exist; a requirement to that effect could lead
to unnecessary project delay. Therefore evidence satisfactory to IDA on
the availability for disbursement of at least US$50 million equivalent from
such cofinanciers would be a condition of Credit effectiveness, with the
remaining US$23.4 million equivalent to be available for disbursement by
December 31, 1983   (Sections 5.01(f) and 6.01(b), Development Credit
Agreement). The loan from the Arab Fund is expected to be at: 4 percent
interest annually over and 20 years including a five year grace period.
Italian financing will be on a grant basis.
The Annual Work Program and Mid-Term Review
47.       The Annual Work Program (AWP) prepared by SGB would be a key
project implementation mechanism. It would include (i) a review of
progress in the current year, (ii) a detailed description of the work to be
performed in the forthcoming year, including objectives, deployment of
equipment and staff, (iii) requirements of additional staff, equipment and
fuel, (iv) a budget, and (v) a financing plan including foreign and local
currency needs and subventions required from GOS. The AWPs would enable
GOS to review progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs and provide the
necessary budgetary and other support needed for the Project (Section 2.01
(b)(i), Project Agreement). The f:irst approved AWP will be due by
September 30, 1983 (Section 3.02(b)(ii)(2), Development Credit Agreement).
The Project also provides for a review by the Government and the



-  21  -
Association of project progress by December 31, 1986 to assess what has
been accomplished and the benefits derived and establish a framework for
future investment program for the scheme (Section 2.04(d), Project
Agreement).
Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (RPMU)
48.       In order to ensure smooth implementation of the Project, it would
be necessary to establish an effective unit in the MOAI, which would deal
with external donors and government agencies, handle procurement, monitor
project progress, provide technical support to the implementing entities,
administer studies and supervise preparation of the modernization program.
This unit, to be called the Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (RPMU),
will be established by September 30, 1983 (Section 3.02(b), Development
Credit Agreement) and key staff will be appointed as a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c), Development Credit Agreement). The
Director of the unit would report directly to the Minister. He would have
the necessary status to coordinate the work of the implementing agencies
and would extend technical support to them. He would be the convener of a
Project Management Committee (PMC), headed by the Minister of Agriculture
and Irrigation and comprising of the heads of the six implementing
agencies, the Under Secretaries' of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of
Transport and Communications, and the Regional Minister of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities, Central Region (who is in charge of
RWA). The PMC would meet quarterly and would inter alia review and approve
Annual Work Programs (AWPs), monitor progress of the Project and resolve
interagency conflicts.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
49.       The Director of RPMU, would have overall responsibility for
monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Monitoring and evaluation would be
carried out principally through the AWP mechanism and the proposed mid-term
review. In addition, base line and other studies supported by the Project
would be used to monitor and evaluate areas such as tenants' behavioral
responses and the efficiency of the extension system. The strengthening of
management information systems would augment SGB capability to monitor
operations on a day-to-day basis and evaluate results, with particular
emphasis on concerns such as cost-effectiveness of operations. The RPMU
would furnish the Association with monthly progress reports, in a format
satisfactory to the Association. It would also prepare the Project
Completion Report no later than six months after the completion of the
Project.
Assurance of Water Supply
50.       Water for the Scheme is diverted mostly by gravity from the Blue
Nile at Sennar. Because the flow of the Blue Nile during the months of
December to May is insufficient, storage capacity is required to meet the
irrigation demands of Gezira and other schemes on the Blue Nile. Storage
is provided on the Blue Nile at Sennar and at Roseires; this is adequate
for present needs. Both dams were inspected in 1982 by their original



- 22 -
designers and certain recomniended remedial maintenance will be carried
out. Assurances were obtairned from the Government that (i) funds would be
made available to MOAI(I) independently of the proposed Project for the
remedial works which would be carried out before June 30, 1985 and (ii) an
action program, satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared no 'Later than
December 31, 1983 for inspection and maintenance of the dams (Sections
4.02(b)(i) and (ii), Development Credit Agreem,ent). Also, operation of the
minor canals in the Gezira area will be transferred from the SGB to the
MOAI(I), which has the capacity to enforce the necessary water control and
regulation mechanisms, over a four year period with an initial transfer of
a portion of the canals to be completed as a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(d), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Heightening of the Roseires dam would be ultimately needed to
ensure continued irrigation in the Blue Nile region. However, there are
competing claims within the irrigated sub-sector for the medium term
investment funds available, including Upper Atbara Project and the
electrification of the Pump Schemes. A study to assist in determining suclh
investment priorities is therefore important and funds for this purpose
have been provided under the Technical Assistance II Project (IDA Cr.
1153-SU). The Government will prepare and submoit to IDA, not later than
December 31, 1983, a ten year program for such investments (Section 4.03,
Development Credit Agreement).
Pricing
52.       An adequate level for cotton prices is essential to provide the
necessary incentive for tenants to increase production. It is also
important for farmers to knowir the price early in the crop year. Price
levels have been appropriate during the past two seasons, and prices have
been announced by the Goverrunent in December. To assure that these
conditions will continue to prevail, agreement was reached that the
Government will announce cotton price levels after consultation with the
Association which are set on the basis of parity with international market
prices by December 1 of each year during the life of the Project (Section
4.04, Development Credit Agreement).
53.      ;The Government is committed to fixing domestic whepat prices on
the basis of import parity prices. However, as a result of devaluation
announced in November, 1982, the official wheat price for 1982-83 is now
below import parity price equivalents. The Government will thereafter
announce wheat prices after consultation with the Association which are set
on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Association no later than
November 1 each year, which would reflect import parity prices (Section
4.04, Development Credit Agreement).
Gezira Financial Status and Cost Recovery
54.       It is projected that SGB would be able to meet al:L its financial
costs through land and water charges by year 5 of the project, with the
result that cash inflows would equal cash outflows including replacement of
assets and repayment to Government of the loan for the Project over 20



- 23 -
years. In the initial years, however, government subventions would be
necessary to meet deficits in cost recovery caused through farmers
defaulting in repaying debts. SGB's direct agricultural production costs
would continue to be passed on to tenants by direct charges to tenants'
individual crop accounts based on the quantum of goods supplied or services
performed by the Board for individual farmers. Cash advances for hiring
labor to perform agricultural operations would also be charged to tenants'
accounts. SGB's Project investment costs, indirect costs of operation and
its existing sunk costs as well as MOAI's costs would continue to be
recovered by a land and water charge.  The Government would notify tenants
of the rates of land and water charges applicable for each year no later
than May 1, i.e. before commencement of irrigation, after consultation with
the Association. Rates for machinery would be based on sound principles
for allocating various costs among different crops raised in the Project
area, reflecting accurate unit costing to value all goods, services and
cash loans and based on criteria acceptable to the Association (Sections
4.05 and 4.06, Development Credit Agreement).
Legal Status of SGB
55.       The Gezira Scheme Act of 1960 would be amended to reflect certain
alterations in the operating structure and procedures adopted by SGB in
recent years. The proposed amendments of the Act include: (i) altering
the composition of the Board of SGB and reformulating its responsibilities
and functions; (ii) definition of the responsibilities and functions of the
Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director of SGB; (iii) inclusion of
a provision in the Act, making it obligatory for SGB to recover fully all
its costs from tenants (departure from this principle would only be
possible after explicit approval of the Government); (iv) provision of an
adequate capital structure for SGB; (v) description of production
relations between SGB and tenants; and (vi) details of financial
relationship between GOS and SGB. The enactment into law of the necessary
amendments is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(e),
Development Credit Agreement).
Recurrent Foreign Exchange and
Local Currency Requirements
56.       Secure access to adequate flows of foreign currency to finance
recurrent import requirements is critical for Project success. Foreign
exchange needs for capital and recurrent expenditures would be determined
through AWPs. The Government has agreed to ensure that, until completion
of the project, timely allocations of fuel, fertilizers, pesticides,
herbicides and other necessary recurrent inputs in sufficient quantities
would be made available to SGB and the other departments and agencies of
Government involved in the project, and would provide the Association with
quarterly reports on the actual availability of such inputs (Section
3.02(b)(vi), Development Credit Agreement). Further, the Government would
conduct a study and prepare an action program on ways to ensure the
adequate and timely financing of such inputs, which will be submitted to
the Association for an exchange of views by December 31, 1984 (Section
3.02(b)(vii), Development Credit Agreement).



- 24 -
Procurement
57.       Goods.  Vehicles, machinery, equipment and spares totalling
US$52.3 million would be grouped into appropriate bidding packages of
US$100,000 or more and procured by International Competitive! Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.  Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation cf 15 percent or
the import duty, whichever is lower. Annual requirements of spare parts
for vehicles, machinery and equipment procured under the Project and
totalling US$9.6 million would be procured directly from the manufacturer
of the equipment and from other established dealers. Miscellaneous items
in packages of less than US$100,000 but totalling no more than US$1 million
would be procured under local competitive procedures which are satisfactory
to IDA. For contracts under US$20,000 but totalling no more than
US$100,000 local shopping or purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at
least three quotations would be used. In total, ICB would account for
about 70 percent by value of the purchases of goods.  Purchases of
materials, consisting of medicines and molluscicides (US$9.0 million) would
be by negotiated contract, while farm inputs (US$0.2 million) for the
research component would be procured in accordance with the normal existing
procedures of the Government, acceptable to IDA.
58.       Works.  Civil works construction at SG]3, MOAI(I) and ARC
Headquarters and main areas as well as installed track for the GLR
totalling US$3.7 million would be procured by ICB3 in accordarnce with Bank
Group guidelines.  Civil works for SGB and MOAI(]:) housing (US$8.5 million)
which would be dispersed and in remote areas would be by Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB). The civil works for rural water supply (US$17.1 million),
because of the small unit cost, the dispersed and remote location of the
sites and the existence of a government unit already engaged in this work,
would be by force account. In total about 12 percent by value of the civil
works would be under ICB, while the further 30 percent would be under LCB.
Local contractors would be entLtled to the civil works preference of 7
percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
59.       Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works anid goods
estimated to cost over US$0.5 million equivalent would be made subject to
prior review by the Association of procurement documentation. This would
result in a coverage of about 50 percent of the total estimated value of
the contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post
review by IDA after contract award.
60.       Consultants.  The Consultants financed under the project would be
hired in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. They would have terms of
reference, qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursement
61.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over six years on
the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures or its equivalent
percentage of total costs if locally produced or expended, for all



- 25 -
categories of expenditures except for technical assistance and studies
which would be financed 100 percent. The disbursement profiles for
Bank-wide irrigation and drainage subsector projects and for Eastern Africa
crop processing and grain storage subsector projects are eight and nine
years respectively while for all Sudanese projects, the profile shows that
full disbursement has taken an average of nine years with about 82 percent
being disbursed over the first six years.  The shorter disbursement period
of six years assumed for the proposed Project is justified by the
relatively strong management of the two major implementing agencies, the
preparatory steps already completed in respect to major procurement items
and the further steps being financed prior to Project start under a PPF.
Audits
62.       SGB would maintain its accounting system in accordance with sound
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to
the Association to enable SGB to provide annual financial statements to
reflect the financial performance and position of the Project and of SGB.
The ARC, BNHP, RWA, MOAI(I), and SPTC would also maintain separate
Project-related accounts.  Unaudited financial statements would be provided
to the Association within six months of the close of each fiscal year, and
an independent auditor's opinions and reports satisfactory to the
Association on such statements would be presented within nine months of the
close of the fiscal year (Section 4.01(c), Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
63.       Irrigation in the Gezira Scheme has been responsible for the high
incidence of schistosomiasis in the area and has contributed to the
prevalence of malaria. The Project activities would aim to improve water
distribution, drainage and canal maintenance and restore thorough drying
out of minor canals. These measures should reduce breeding grounds for
these diseases. The Project would extend safe water supply to villages
presently not covered, further reducing the risk of schistosomiasis. The
disease would also be controlled by mass treatment and follow-up programs,
and by the use of focal molluscicides in canals.
64.       Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticide has been
extensively practised in Sudan for the past 30 years. All sprays currently
used are tested by residue analysis for compliance with prescribed
specifications and registered with the Pesticide Committee of the MOAI.
Application is by aerial spraying using techniques that minimize drift,
making the risk of direct contamination of the human population slight.
Although extensive use of chemicals would continue to pose longterm risks,
it would not be profitable to produce cotton without chemical pest control.
65.       Byssimosis (chronic cough) is present among workers in the cotton
ginneries. It is due to exposure to cotton dust from inadequate protective
measures and poor hygiene within the factories. However, given the
seasonal nature of the work, it is not a serious problem, and the proposed
mechanization program should reduce its incidence.



- 26 -
SGB Financial Results
66.       SGB is expected to meet its financial costs through land and
water charges by Project year 5 and also meet expenditures on replacement
of assets and repayment of loans from the Government. In the initial
years, Government subventions would be needed to meet deficits in cost
recovery caused by tenant default in repayment of debt.  This is estimated
at LS 30.6 million during the first four years of the Project until yields
and farmers incomes are built up sufficiently.  If the Project were not
undertaken, the Government would have to provide additional subventions
totalling LS 44 million over a similar period and approximately LS 190
million over the first 10 years of the Project ]life.
Other Project Entities' Financial Results
67.       MOAI(I)'s projected cash flows under the Project show a
cumulative 10 year excess of revenues over expenditures of LSd 34.0 million
at the end of Project year 5. This reflects full collection of water
charges by SGB on behalf of MO)AI(I) and the remittance of these amounts.
The excess would arise from depreciation charges on MOAI(I) assets included
in recoveries from tenants, and would be used to replace MOAI(I)'s assets
used on the Gezira scheme. BNIHP, RWA and ARC would obtain sufficient cash
inflows either from Government in the form of grants from an increased
sugar tax and SPTC from user fees charged to SGB and MOAI(I). The inflows
would cover projected incremertal cash outflows on investment and operating
costs.
Government Cash Flow
68.       Over the first 10 years the Government's cash inflows would
exceed outflow by LSd 649 million or an average of LSd 65 million per
year. If the Project were not implemented, the Government wcould have to
continue the scheme on its present basis. This would result in annual
subsidies to SGB and MOAI(I) of about LSd 20 million 1983/84 rising to LSd
60 million in 1988/89.
Expected Output
69.       Yield increases for cotton, groundnuts, sorghum, wheat,
vegetables and fodder are expected from improved water delivery, better
drainage, better land preparation and land leveling, timely seed-bed
preparation and sowing, proper weeding and crop husbandry, and gradual
introduction of certified seeds of high yielding varieties for all crops,
especially groundnuts and sorghum. They would also be due to larger doses
of fertilizer and pesticides which at present are used only for cotton and
wheat.  The proposed program of extension and applied research would allow
for improvement and development of production technology of the main four
crops. The capabilities of SGB field personnel would be improved, and the
links between ARC, SGB, MOAI(I) and farmers would be enhanced.
Improvements of incentives for tenants would play a central role in raising
yields.



- 27 -
70.       Yield estimates which form the basis for calculating economic
rate of return are based on (i) analysis of historical data; (ii)
interpretation of cross-sectional data on yield variations between and
within the various blocks in a particular year; (iii) assessment of the
likely impact of Project actions on yields; and (iv) recognition of
macro-economic, management and institutional constraints that effect the
scheme.
Expected Benefits
71.        The Project would generate some US$360 million annually in
additional foreign exchange earned or saved (1988 constant prices).
Project activities could thus be expected to improve the balance of
payments situation substantially, and this is its primary justification.
72.        The project would directly benefit some 102,000 tenant families.
Average annual income would increase from LSd431-586 to LSd 1,819-2,076
(1983 co-stant prices).
73.        The impact of the Project on the incomes of the 200,000 migrant
laborers and 80,000 permanent laborers and sharecroppers would be felt
through more stable employment and higher earnings from piece-work, rather
than from expanded work opportunity. Higher yields would enable cotton and
groundnut pickers to work more efficiently and earn more in a given time.
74.        The project should contribute to the reduction of
schistosomiasis and malaria through better water management, improvement of
irrigation and drainage systems and provision of safe drinking water.
75.        The economic rate of return is estimated to be 35.8 percent based
on 100 percent of project costs. This compares favourably with an
opportunity cost of capital of about 12.5 percent in the Sudan. The high
economic rate of return reflects the large amount of sunk capital in the
Project area, and increased efficiency of operations.
76.        The main assumptions used in the economic analysis are:
(a)   Without Project Situation.  Agricultural machinery delivered to
the scheme under the ARP is expected to result in an increase in
yields and cultivated area during Project years 1 and 2 even
without this proposed rehabilitation Project. It is assumed that
this increase would be maintained, since replacements would be
financed from increased foreign exchange earnings.
(b)   Prices.  Medium term export parity prices are used for cotton
lint, groundnuts, and sorghum; medium term import parity prices
are used for wheat, fertilizers, and pesticides. All prices are
based on the "World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts (December
1982)". Fuel prices are based on import parity prices provided
by the General Petroleum Corporation. All foreign costs and
benefits are valued at the exchange rate of US$ 1.00 to LS 0.90.



- 28 -
The local currency component of all incremental costs and
benefits has been converted to a border price expressed in local
currency, using a standard conversion factor of 0.6. These
figures reflect the situation prior to the November 15, 1982
devaluation and have been used sirLce cost data were collected
prior to devaluation. The prevailing market wage rate of LS 2.50
per day has been used for labor.
(c)   Project Life.  The economic life of the Project is assumed to be
20 years.  Replacements of Project: assets with economic lives
shorter than that period are included.
.Project Risks
77.       In a scheme of the size and complexity of Gezira, there are
invariably many Project risks. These risks have been recognized in Project
design and include: (i) lack of access to foreign exchange; (ii) lack of
access to local currency; (iii) 'ailure to replace assets; (iv) fuel
shortages; (v) inadequate cottor prices; (vi) poor response of tenants and
labor to price incentives; (vii) weak management of the scheme; (viii) Vack
of expertise within the country; (ix) shortage of skilled manpower; (x)
higher than anticipated siltation of Roseires Dam; (xi) lack of
coordination among project entities; (xii) pest attack; (xiii) adverse
trends in international cot:ton prices; (xiv) delay in securing technical
assistance; and (xv) delay or failure to secure needed cofinancing.
78.       Notwithstanding safeguards provided in the Project, the risks
mentioned above could materialize in varying degrees. This might lead to a
shortfall in cultivated areas and/or reduction in yields.  A sensitivit,y
analysis indicated that capital costs would have to increase by 172
percent, or benefits decrease by 49 percent, for the rate of return to fall
to.12.5 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORI'Y
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Sudan Gezira Board and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Speci,al features of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement and the Draft Project Agreement are referred to in Section III of
Annex III.
80.       The following conditions ;; effectiveness have been included in
the Credit Agreement:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be executed on behalf of
the Borrower and SGB (para. 45);



- 29 -
(b) receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Association showing
that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
funds under agreements for at least US$50 million with the
co-financiers have been fulfilled, save for the
effectiveness hereof (para. 46);
(c) receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Association showing
that RPMU has been staffed as provided in Section 3.02(b)(i)
of the Development Credit Agreement (para 48);
(d) receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
transfer of operation of the minor canals, for at least one
sub-division, as provided -in Section 2.07 of the Project
Agreement, has been effected (para. 50); and
(e) the draft law submitted to the Association promulgating
amendments to the Gezira Act has been duly enacted (para.
55).
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1983



- 30 -
Page 1
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.AES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ZSTIMATE)/
TOTAL           2505.8                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCCME
AGRICULTURAL     684.0                  1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      190.0       240.0     410.0                  250.0                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          51.6        146.3     132.6                  66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    11228.0       13849.0   18681.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.3          16.4      24.8                   17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           33.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            4.5          5.5       7.2                   27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         16.7         20.5      26.5                   86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             43.7         43.7      44.2                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.2         53.4      53.0                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1          2.9       2.8                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.0          2.1       3.0                   2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                  6.9          6.7        7.1                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.5         46.7      46.9                   47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         24.5         22.1       18.8                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.3          3.3       3.2                    3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              92.0        100.0     100.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       83.3         91.2      95.8/c                90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              64.6         65.8      67.6/p                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           23.7         21.8      21.6/c                18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         40.1         32.4      21.9                   26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.6         41.8      46.2                   45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              168.0        150.4     124.5                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         19.(      46.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                    . .       61.0      49.07                 54.9
RURAL                                   ..         13.0      45.07d                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..        16.0      22.0/e                 25.8
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                 63.1
RURAL                                    ..          ..         ..                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             33416.7      L4059.9    8782.4/c             32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3032.4/f    1719.9      850.47E              3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                980.o/R      920.7/g  1008.4/c               1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                                132.67f    185.476   449.o7&                 249.5                    430.8
RURAL                               4400.90   5124.1:  1760.17                   1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..       16.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..         5.1
URBAN                                    ..         5.7/h
RURAL                                    ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          2.5/h
RURAL                                    ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..        26.4/h
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..



- 31 -
Page 2
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0         38.0      50.0                   63.2                     83.3
MALE                  35.0         46.0       58.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                14.0         29.0      42.0                   50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          7.0      16.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   5.0         10.0       20.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0       11.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   3.4            1.4/i      3.3/i,                7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.1         46.5      35.0                   47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           20.0         16.6      19.0                   26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.1         14.7/h    20.0/d                 34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          2.0         ..                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0/k       80.4      73.0                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8/1        3.2       5.8                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    4.0           ..        1.0                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..       0.2                    1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3722.3       4544.1    5936.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.6         10.2      10.8                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0         82.0      72.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.0          8.0      10.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.2         32.8       31.8                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  59.3         58.2       55.9                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                 6.4          6.8        7.0                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.5                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/m           .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.17i         49.2/n       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0T7          5.iT        *-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.97_         14.5T        *
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     137.0                  134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      80.0                   82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     115.0                   96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     100.0                   60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g Government hospital establishments; /h 1966; /i Beginning 1970,
the duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /J Includea programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Ministry of Youth
and Sport; /k 1963; /1 1964; /m 1963, Omdurman "urban;" /n 1967-68.
May, 1982



-  32  -                                                                       ANNEXTI
H!1'EE1TIW6S OF SOCIA LnICCATHGS
Uctaat  Aaltoo-re the data ave dea-  fet  ato          eealyJodged the  -Zs es-ittio- end relIable, it  hbetld als  he ootrd that stay toy oot be hietr-
-ti-oraly coa paahie boate o..  f the teak of  taedoedLeed defieitiasa cad concpts seed by differen.t  -ostriar lie  aler    the dat.-   The data .ace o
thel-as  -cofl to d-soihe orders of nentd.iditate treads, sod oba-totria  ceta.in e5o  difforeco  benor  -cotrit..
Theodoec   grussc()te-aecotygop of the eabje-t  -ostc  rod (2) a  -ootry grop sin  soo ha  igir   vrg   ooecar-i  oto    ro
of th  cuh(oo corery  eocep  foe    High Cr.oo  Oil Hrp-eta.i" froap a,here "Middle Income Nare  Afibia aod Middlo fast  Is  h..eo b-cc-  of sorcger
aoi--clscoiltoal1. I  the roertegoP data the averagee are poPaietioo weighted acsnei   a.oo  for eah icfic-t-e and eh-c  oiy  h-br
ooicy of tha coctritoI ogro - hasdt  feethat irdiora                   Sicc. -the o--ga  of c.o.teira  -ero  tie foicotor  dope-do 00 rho aailahility of dor
ard Ic  _      f0 salos  c-oior  -te heoocto   treaggaear   f or iedicator or a-ther   Their avatar  on1y sia  i~ -oopociog cho voic  of
ooe iv,di-arat a time  moog th  ca rpad  orcefOp.
dAfRtEA    ao    qi.                                                                              PPop1ltior Per H-io t.1 Hod  -toa,ubac, a-d  -ura  - Populatioc(otl
otl     -aaparaeorocwia ing laod :are  aed  ciad waters; 1979 dora.                               oeo,adttl   ivided hy their  -aspac-i,.o osrir of borlcai beds
dalar f- feft-ao of ageicuitur   at-  cad t-pora-ip or p-e--ery                            aalah   to p iic sodpi_oat  geo_ro  cod aoialfoed hcrpiooi aidre
fot crop, pai-tos, cano   aod bitchec garde   or e  lie Hellos; 1979 data.                     hahilitatioce.ce.    goi Hpitols ar  -iaiotabl      rori " " por .ooty..ratf.d
by.atiroer~ 00phyckicia.  Ectbhidishaerr   urotlag pri-cipolIycut--
GNP PER CAPITA (ilS) -GNPPtpe  capita ostinatra at c-r-t sorte  prices..ca-                         dla  cor are1  I-t icluded.  cocci hospitls  ieeror,i-olido health
ccfotod by  ...r ce eioe method or acrId Rok Asl.a  (1973-9  basirl; 1960,                        admiclcorrorp-r et-o etoffo  bya phy.iicba (hu  by
17.ad 190I     t.mdclaiiot  os_ie  rfdaifo  ore.) I .hc  cf-o topoo   ucsc
d-rico aod P-ocdr a  al.ted r-ge of redic-.  faciltt,r   tar arati
EHERGY C9iNSt9lTT19  tic CAP1fA A-     -  .....l.cssupolo of co-eria1 -ragy (coal                   tic-l popoorcea  hospital  inclde  ROlIl  prcr_iylfgrcto  hoptas
aed ligolte. yatraleom   , caoe   gas aod hydo-, colear aed geothermal : nec                      ad rural hocyftala. loca  or coral  -pitalt acd medicot -d ca-eisy
tcnty   .5hl-g-a   of coal oqaIv-lo  Pe capitc; 1990. 1970. osd 1919                         __ror .iSpoicliord h-iccyoc    cot iloeld- c-ycoe1            ntl
dor.                                                                                            dfst sic  per  Eiropal fed - Tota  -urSr 0y  dacoic-i   eo di-ci-go-
trcm hcttapilsadicidrd hy the  -uco  of hed.
POPULATIlOt ADOl VITAL STATISTICS
.TatolP1  usic.Mid-Yea  ftohc-sds) - As of Jaly I; 1969, 190, 0-sd 19th                       HOUSINGi
fatsP.ai_Average glee  f gaieqhold (por.e.c Prr h-caihld) - tcta1, -rbo.  aod rue1l
Utlrao peclio        _yrc_  ct totol) - Ratic c  ones to  .tota  yryta.tios                       A hccsoholdcoit  of a grop of loftvhdcsl c'h.  ...tr Ii...g ...artr
iflf-orot dotititico   of   ha  aera  aay affect  -op-eaility of data                           and their cab   -Ial.  A hoarder oe ledger aiyn  mayou   hetoludd lv
magocre;1960  1970, ard 1989 data                                                     tha ..c.ohod for attst        -l p-ra-n
coral pepolocice hy age ood tao ad thoir maroalty e.d feerility  cocoa              d-elige, r-spe-teely.  Dw..--g  ocldnoyocncorctrao
Pr-j-trf- yara...r t     or m_erot1ty rtran   -pri-t of tbr-e Iree1 a_s-coc iyd ypot..
fog  1fira aepoccoccy at  !ph,irthtouraciog with  -ccoty's Par  _0ita irro.o               Accoito ElecticIty  y-c-o  of d-llifogi) --ctl1ro,  0   uo 
laro, ad foalelfferopc broyooiiag at 77.5 years.  Tie Pora-                           C.....rtooo  dselllgselsi locrfc..            ilte   qa-r  a   ecna-ge
sotars fur  -tlortly rote ab   hon  three le.elcacc__isg  do ire  ico.rtl  or an                                  d r-ra  dooll legs- resp-ee-ly.
fo tity a_c-divg to   __am  lj_l ord Post tinIly ploo...    pefosace
loc  tuc-y I henosiged one of three  Jor voni,atlara of  -ertaliy                        EDUCATION
oa. frid   e   Itrods  o   rjrbo    opi                                                    Adj-nted lo-11o-t  latiuc
S-olear ..     aoce   - Ie 0  tti_oIeay popolotlos charti looor-oh   ora                       PrLrac  school -  uc,tal  cud frol~  r-lrcs teol  raft and fvral
tba bIrth r_ro ioequal- no  ia deth.rota  a.d alcseag   ncccoe                                   rrime  of all egec - as cl  prlnof roe  an. .ectacvctot
cafes costact.  T is_cahleord ca ly atre  f_etnfy rare  feefI  re                         primay  ohoul-age poyoloci-v;  -ur.o1y ivlodrr chfld-e  ogod 9-Il
the rayoveceo  fend   f     tolocerdciortet,  h.. oat-h geo-a-ta-                        yoarc bct adj-ore" e  difffeoo - fegtha of pele-y edc-tlo-; far
onetvyhcea cci   uatly.'  The  nt.tor-y popola-i- sieoa_cut itolh a-ivo_ol  fuatb--i oo-ltv-ct-youc d 100 pot--
eeimbacd 00 tha boson of the p-oj-ocd chara-innico ef tir  ypapotc-                            cir- soot yapilo am  hbo1 ye ecb- the efticial school ago
hethe yar, 001, and the - oso   of follr of f-irblhty t'ac 1Ic o-yba-                       ircord-eycbo  - curb, tube  -rd femal  - Cenyotef. osoev;o--od-ry
sootlove.                                                                                       odocalor reqoin-  or1- frotto  raars  ft acyrued prImay Isrcio
loarcosIcuoy ppoltios in reahed - Th. year wIse  -oo o-y perhahe                           ye-fs  env I_.. vosiuo    rlec  reb                       -_nsjtrut -o too  "Pels
ocee  -lI  erahed.                                                                             -oely uf 12 to, 10  rrs  ago;                           -rrr-rdo uet   ore g--arofy
aPubtu  coos Icy Mieappciud-ef. il                        -(0  h,..).1                                                  p-         Ls         )~ .t  .     4 i~i.
1ea    to   9hf, 190 ad 1979da.                                                        io-bsdr ntnhoico, fdsnhf,             tter yrgsn hief.           -t eo `.bdepor-8
Foro.   a   agriesl-uro  li.d - Conps-d  0 aton  far ag                  1-fcal d              eary or ao depor--t  ef  -acodary foot  -Ltel.,
oy;19601, 1900  -rd 1909 data.... Prf__rhrca  o   e_ay  andIecuda...rn -  'tob  -cuotr  -or1bd t
l'cpuitiun  ge nouctert(percon) -Childrea   14-l y--rl, -orhig-ofe  110-               p~irymapadse-t-oyfoo     dfodd b   ubc   fcehosInb
Sb  -er).cd reired (S5 Fratt -od ...) a  por-etnar  of all-poor pops-                           vorra.podiogbo .
lafo   191. 01970. and 1932 data,                                                        fAult lit-r-c  r1ar  loor-ee   -hiterarrodol-o (bIl   ora  sdnio
yvc.enio  Irollo  Ip-rc-    - tota  - dorsal grob e-e  o   oalad                                a per-eotge oftotal adult peyoatiuo ago.[ 11  er   o   nr
yea  .PoIfti.o fur 1950-60, 1960-70, ood 1970-80.
Puplolo  iret  tno  poeot)    sha -aeu     gcoenh case  of -rha  pays-           lOiOffTtIff
lani.oo ret 1900-60, 1960-70.aad9'0-30.                                                      Panege  Coa (proorsMpplto,  --aooercr   opriceocu
Crude irtl bce(net rhoood   A  .oss1 loo-Sloths Per thousand of aid-year                conti -eglt  than eight perc-no   _1ldsarat             hsot. hrsno
pparc;1~950. 1970,..cd 1980 da-o.                                                        o1i car  -ehil-l
Crdo Doanh loie fyrqtchooand 9- Ac.cf Ideahs per ohooc..od  of r~id-y-a                       radio tev-oor  (pe  t.vtad  opo_tr    - All fype  of rei-er  let radio
pouain '960. -91  ard199  data.                                                          broad-trr  to  eoa  public per tbh-do   fPypuloi-n; von  d.o  u--
iroosfoyrooctic Rtot-Average ourhr of fooghtersa            1 ammar ol>ber it                licrond rocrinc  ;Ic n-cir ir -ad in yea   h. e  roglara coo of radio
err ocoal opcodunioe priod  f oheopreiroon  pesertege-eec ftu  for-Otto  aa ioeffeu; datafur rneot  earn  o, toohe coporahdataf
_ifp  at; _uual.  fv-ya  artgcrfo    c  91              =oI   o  1980.                    ros  osrre   abolished l rig
or ilcl-ceteelfonieo seor aipive  of orooi.-   failty pilo-icg pr-groo.             geealpblic pe - ctar   Ieoate;  -oluo  ofcod                      TVlr..rivero
F-oiln Placnlsno-tlo-vo (pooceo  of ratld cmo    Por-otage or married                             in  --ct riro cod be' Ipeon  chro rfhnro     fnToV          o   io  foc
cae   f nhild-bh...iog age fl544y-hfpat  rho oar b hrt-_-u 1  d-i-o.o                     Nro-pper Ci-colai-o_(ea2- oon  pufcof-beSh.  rho uerogo oli-
al --nld  aurgnsme00 -0p.                                                                    ulteof "doiLy gt--1icrs   noppt.dtod  sarooia
pheaiedenotd primarilyT enr-eding  -enrca  crs   It -o oldrod
FOOD AND0 9fT111019                                                                                 cc he "fiLy" if in opycoco   Ito    uormu     rh
U,od-of to-d P'doc-ion net Capit  f1969-71o1100  - lfd- of per -opita  --1oa                   Ctec  fo-nl Atreodo-n  oar Cooft  per  Y r-due   oro  uhro
profdncio  no oil  on  cood       -es    rdc-l-rr-Lodea. -eod ood feed and                      tinioc   sold dube5 rho yran  bIefding odni-n..o be drio-Iccinosa
In -o coono  yea   ot   Coseairte- cove  pri-ay poodo fe.9. sog-...o.                          aof mbilecelts.
hotuaf ef -g-t) saich ore edibht and  -ooiaoocti-ot   (e.. -ofeosuf
to _ae  orlded).   A,, b0ge dt af-ioc of eah c..oocy hobSod 00L10001  FO010
--ros1seogo poodun- price  -nlghta; i961-Si  1970, and 1930 dota.                       TonIalblSe  Foote~   .. ftsroaf) -inc         f   achi-r yrcu-- Iredo
Pot nuyra suppy of noorles (orneoc  r teicienoica)- Coap-td ftoe                  aredoreIaf'll,ee  Strrfsn                       hoivln-  onof.....o..,
otrtqv vqlvcfrnt  O oor foo  ooppfhe  ovaiiahb  hocou--y Eoo  -aPitrerngotolr of_i                        oil aioc.   Ioit-tioo    ft - vooleu.     nrr
;rdoy.  Araiibila  _upplf-c-prisa fdmeoic p-d-tcnfo, iPorni Ott                              nut  -oparblo; 1961f, 1970 atd 1900 data.
.ocn . an   -ocgosboi er...   OttN~  _eppllt  _unide aoiIm   fref, orede        ~         F-. f'ni(p-orno-) - P.tmat  1b-bo  l-cco aspro--ncgo  icrlao    ot
q      -nufo    od lo feud Pren..siog, oaf bor  to  ~i  di-ibelhstlc  Raqoit-            Agri-of--r (p-r-e) - LaSe  farce  In t..eiog    __ro  tr, _otIg  n
-ot   aanlian-d by FAO ba..ad 00 phyoilulgf-l credo for co-teo   -i-                       firhirg 00 pe-c-cae  f totl faberfrce  1969, 1900 sod 1990 iot..
-od cooOfsrfsib-o of poy_anic,. rd  ll -io  10 Perceo  forr-             r  at.                  ao   lciifp  orrsd  a   s  rtioa.                    borlltr fame;
hvu.....f fone; 19ff-hi, 1900 acd 1971 fats.                                                     1960, 1970 aod 190  data.
toy revcia suply yr  racelo  groan  er fop)- ro_irovoorvt of Jet _aPiri           Po-tlipatico last (fy__er) -  a alcab, ocd fosol n-trt iciyti-no
non ouplyl  u  food  erday.  Ncr oepply of food in foflo-oa  ahovo.  Re-                       -civtty cares ore  -opstof so -nro, ode, and frcl              b-h fum.r-s
fu..    r clI      I -ovrls  ntblisbe d by USIA Prov.idefor tiars                           te-oa  of tta, al  sod tucl-              plofr  fall oges r-aoptinely;
oflaue   at  O gEr  o  cra   prtin Per fop  rd 20 gr-  of -nina  osi                           1960, 19701  aed 1990 daco.  TOrso ore lacd or 110,a'ora rtiiol            oe
-s1- ?rotnin. of ohinh L.grom  should So oolml p-osic.   -hc  os-d-                            t-fl-tirg  ga-oat- --cutreo   h  pylo.  a-d ln-g rise- Id
ore.  boar I   so Ooo o- f7 Ph _roo   of _tta  proreic ood 03pim    f                       feoe tlsasr      -ao  from  r-ica o.u.cI
00 average Jfor the  -1d,prosdhPA  to cro  hira                           Ecr...ie Depeodeoy Izlirl  - tati.foa  population  -'d- 10 aod 65 -odoe
lucId feud   cruro; 195-60  190sd 1977 data,                                             cc tie  tota  1aSbc f-r-o
tat ce'sIli     rl                       Zdp_2ro   cia .0~ 1)ie-P--toi  supply of food de-
hciIrson.         l an   onnfrgnper day; 1961 -f5, Ir1970 ad..lYOP dcta.                   COCIMi OIS7IITIOHM
Chilfd fogs I-u) lothRroforhnaf  -a .oss1 foothsper  hocad to                                  Pecotg f Pri--c Innoa.  (barb lv  oh -f hind) - loc-iod by rbiec-
000 000s  i-4, pooc-  to ohildr-  It chic age o-so  f-t soot develp ing nco                        potst   ichs"      0ptrc"trs   0yrnr.adpoirlre
,rlec. d_r  dnivod Iro  life roSIer; 1960, 1970 aod 1980 dota.                                 of hb...ebhlde.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVEIRPY TARGET GRCOUPi
orbrh ,90  1910 ad 1930 dste.                                                          ad ahoo1d he Jnot-p-ero  wth ...ooide...bleaui
loso, to- ain   Mt, (por thaocuf 9- Aa.iecai  tho of inftn  ardor or  1000                     Estimated Abslto roc-ty 1oone Lnvnl (010  -tt uo lt   - -tb- cod  --1o  -
of ao .pe   obaod Itd  birchs; 1960. 1970  o  1990 data.                                 balto poverty irnie lve  is  hthor           . .o..e avI bolos' Phobb   ia oic
fot-c  to  af  W-te (pretes  of popolathor) - total, urban  .sd  -uva  - HN-                      ctrtitios.slby adoq_co diot PIc ..     onii  o-ie.oq.nm.c.s  c
her of people foora1. arbao, ord --o)  iob o..a.ooable a-cea  te  -fe                          affordable.
-aonrpyhy flo-lodn   noae         farestr  oanttE- a  oBeottditd                          itietod te.i-nv  P-vt- lnm  Iao   olos                   lo   urban codtoa-
-aacshoa  1tho  f-a   rnce  borholo,  prisgoan   ci-yc wells) at.                           R-ro  rlari-e po-err  lc-s  lro  1o ore-nbird of a-oag  pro u-pi-
pecoso   of  hoir  -epoonlt  poalooc        . _I eohsae  a ySbllc                       prero-l Iose  of- thtro-onry.  'Irhas bene  lo dtivdef-ts  the  -uta
fosotalo or sO-dp-st Iocaced nor mer  thao 200 metres Peas a hoc- ty be                        leve  efth afjcctm t for higher ...n oPt         o f  ocrharavro1..
coraideraf a  befog ainbi   --ssmble  cerof rit  bce.l  crl ara                              Etimated PolairBelow Abecoetoct   ooeL-vlferet   - srh
-eacnabL,oce ield  npi  nha-  the b-omarier  es-be_  of`the tah-eld                            and total  P-nPrce  of  pEaolaorohacd cral) who  rna vab.oate
do  a  ho  to apod a disyrpoctia...ne poet of eh. day  J.  efoblhsf the                         oo"
faily' o        _ae   edo.
lfoo   ofpople(tta, sbar. a-d -ara) s-nnd by  . cooet  diepeaal as
pe-cetgage  af rheir nasptire pepaloti-s   Ho-eta dinpna  map faroinde
oh. ealot         d es diapa..l, with en hitbet teeaaeta, af home  _aeea
and  wsemleby wareeb-hec  sptos  ae the ass ef pit petiesa sed simi-
tar taalcss
P.,ltle  a  Physicim   - Pepaltiac divided by scArc  at plattfie.g phynt-                                                       fEmeeide and harlot Data DtiWac
otame qoalifid fetm a sdisal soheal at aetvsrItp Ieet.                                                                        goa Airglyate.. ofteajesta.. DePeeset--
PPselatior pee HaU-ln  P-e-e  - Pepulasias divided by esthr ef peo..eisieg                                                                         Myt 1982
male and female gradse  -a.a.e.  .aisset scnt   prootisL esese  and
--rotg ame i-nia.



ANNEX I
-  33                          iPage 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981/82 1/                         (D, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.    Z          1977/78-1981/82    1977/78-1981/82
GDP at Market Prices          8,876.0   100.0                8.0                 0.1
Gross Domestic Investment    1,597.0    18.0                11.4                 4.4
Gross National Saving            405.0     4.6             - 2.6               -24.8
Current Account Balance      -1,191.0    13.4              -30.6               -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS            788.0     8.9             - 2.7                 1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         2,246.0    25.3                9.8                11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981/82
Value Added 2/      Labor Force 3/         V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    Z        Mla.        %        US$   % (of average)
Agriculture       2,990    36.6       3.97      68.7        753        53.3
Industry          1,121    13.7       0.37      6.3       3,030       214.6
Services          4,052    49.6       1.44 .  24.9        2,814       199.3
Total       8,163   100.0        5.78    100.0       1,412      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1981/82
(LSd. Mln.)       % of GDP 4/
Current Receipts                   916              12.7
Current Expenditure              1,046              14.5
Current Surplus                  - 130             - 1.8
Capital Expenditures 5/            416               5.8
External Assistance (net)          416               5.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               77/78   78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                           669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government    593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                         490.8   652.9      814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)         17.0    25.6       25.9      28.1     24.9
Bank Credit to Central Government       27.4    54.0       23.8      23.7     13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                      13.5    33.0       24.7     37.4      39.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average effective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Bank staff estimates.
2/ The last year of officially published national accounts is 1977/78; the data
presented here are the Government's own estimates presented in Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development; 1982/83-1984/85.
3/ Total labor force (est.); unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal!
occupation.  "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their
first job.
4/ At market prices.
5/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other
public entities).
EA2DB
April 1983



SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                    MERCIIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82                                      US$ Mln.        _
(Millions US$)
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798        801        788          Cotton                     193.9           40.6
Imports  Goods, NFS              1,321      1,564      1,827      2,246          Sorghum                     68.2           14.3
Resource Gap                     - 622      - 766    -1,026    -1,458            Gro andnuts                 42.3            8.9
Interest, MLT Debt (net)          - 72       - 60       - 79       - 75          Gum Arabic                  39.6            8.3
Other Factor Payments (net)          3          2        - 9        - 8          Sesame                      38.8            8.1
Private Transfers                  240        209        305        350          Other                       44.2           19.8
Current Balance                  - 451      - 615.    - 809    -1,191                   Total               477.0          100.0
Public Grants                       17         84        122        174          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982                            l
Direct Investment                  --          10         20         70          ETN
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618        615        540        420
Public MLT Loans, amort.            30         42         52         68                                                 US$ Mln.
Total Public Net                   588        573        488        352          Public Debt, DOD, MLT                  5.096.01
Net Credit, IMF                     58        115        165        --                                                           _
Capital Flows (incl. errors
and omissions)               - 162         113       - 52        400          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82
Change in Net Reserves
(- indicates increase)        - 50       - 54          66        195
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             18.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annual Averages             End Period                IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82
IBRD      IDA
Official:
LSd I = USS         2.000/1.250  i.250t/.111    1.11l        0.769            Outstanding and Disbursed             46.8    339.6
Effective:                                                                       Undisbursed                            2.6    259.0
LSd 1 - US$             1.580         1.230       1.111      0.769            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         49.4    598=6
Free Market:
LSd I - us$              ---           ---        0.769      0.556                                                                         >
Not available.
1[  Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitarv debt) is, however,
estimated to US$7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
EA2DB
April 1983



-  35  -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                    Undis-
Credit No.      Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Ban k    IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and twelve Credits fully disbursed:          127.2   144.9
Credit 364-2   1975   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                20.0    1.0
Credit 547      1975   Sudan      Education II                    10.0    1.8
Credit 614      1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance              4.0    0.1
Credit 727      1977   Sudan)                                       8.0    0.5
Loan 1467T      1977   Sudan)    Railway IV               12.0             0.4
Credit 781      1978   Sudan      Port                             22.0    2.0
Credit 782      1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing             25.0   12.3
Credit 804      1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III           16.0    8.6
Credit 834      1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research            15.0    8.5
Credit 882      1979   Sudan      Highway II                      41.0    8.1
Credit 904      1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture           15.0    8.4
Credit 1000    1980   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program            65.0    5.4
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan       Third Power                      65.0   37.7
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan       New Halfa Rehabilitation         40.0   36.1
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.            32.0   26.0
Credit 1119 /1 1981   Sudan       White Nile Pump Rehab.           35.0   28.1
Credit 1153 /1 1981   Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance           6.0    4.9
Credit 1181 /1 1981   Sudan       Western Savannah                 13.0    8.4
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan       Agricultural Services            18.0   16.4
Credit 1233 /1 1982   Sudan       Second Port                      25.0   20.2
Total                                         139.2   619.9  234.9
of which repaid                              92.0    11.2
Total now outstanding                          47.2   608.7
Amount sold                     5.8
of which repaid               5.8              -      -
Total held by Bank & IDA                       47.2   608.7
Total undisbursed                               0.4   234.5  234.9
/1 IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 6 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million and
SDR 21.5 million respectively.)



36  -
A_NEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                  Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972           Textiles                                 1.9    0.3      2.2
1976           Cotton Textile Mills                       8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.              11.0    1.2    12.2
1978            Gezira/Managil T'extile Co. Ltd.          6.7    1.4      8.1
1980            Promotional Cement Company                 -     0.2      0.2
1982            White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.              -     0.3      0.3
Total gross comuitments                  28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                   6.7    0.4       7.1
Total commitments now held by IFC        21.6    4.3    25.9
Total undisbursed by IFC                  1.1    0.4      1.5



-  37  -
ANNEX II
Page 3
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1/
As of March 31, 1983
Credit No. 547     Second Education Project: US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some
change in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these
difficulties. Physical execution of the project has improved in recent
years and major educational objectives are being achieved.
Credit No. 781     Port Project: US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project provides for expansion of the capacity of the
existing berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and
movement, improvement of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of
bulk, container and roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management
assistance and training. Civil works are essentially completed and
procurement of equipment is being finalized.
Credit No. 782     Livestock Marketing Project: US$25.0 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides rolling stock, market and transport
infrastructure , technical assistance, headquarters building and additional
staff for the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (IMMC), which is
implementing the project.  Construction of the LMMC headquarters is
complete, and ten locomotives with 68 wagons to carry livestock have been
purchased and have started operating. The Sudan Railways Corporation has
contracted to build nine livestock railway yards. Contract to build ten
livestock markets will be awarded later this year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 804      Third Mechanized Farming Project: US$16.0 million Credit
of July 1.3, 1978; Effective Date: August 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The third project was specifically designed to strengthen
extension services, carry out a program of adaptive trials and related
research, an access road building program, provide agriculltural machinery
spare parts and strengthen and restructure the Corporation.. In addition,
funds were provided to establish a machinery hire unit for smallholders and
also to create a center to develop mechanized crop production systems for
use of the sandier soils of the west. Project implementation has been slow
and suffered from three major constraints: (a) management, (b) provision of
local funds, and (c) failure of Government and MFC first to come to a firm
decision of MFC's role in the agricultural sector and then to pursue its
implementation.
Credit No. 834      Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 maillion Credit of
July 27, L978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new
Khartoum headquarters. The research program includes integrated livestock
and crop production systems, pure livestock production systiems and water
and land use management. USAID is cofinancing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have
been agreed.  Construction is scheduled for completion January 1984.
Credit No. 882      Second Highway Project: US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Dalte: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of
agricultural production through construction of the Jebel Atulia to Ed Dueim
road along the White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but
isolated areas; provide access to new areas of agricultural development;
develop appropriate organizational, planning andl technical skills in the
Roads Department of the Southiern Regional Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Roads, particularly with respect to highway maintenance; and
provide detailed engineering for future priority roads.  Construction work
is proceeding and technical assistance to the Southern Region is under way.
Credit No. 904      Southern Region Agricultural Project: US$15.0 million
Credit of Mlay 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14,
1980; Closi.ng Date: June 30, 1984
This project, a follow tup to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), is assisting the Southern Regional Government ito implement
part of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening
agricultural services, planning capacity and management and improving
physical infrastructure.



-  39  -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 1000    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of April 4, 1980 and EEC Special Action Credit
No. EEC 57-SU; Effective Date: May 12, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project provided foreign exchange financing for high priority
imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase utilization of
productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from which Sudan
derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project also
encouraged macro-economic and agriculture sector policy and institutional
reforms and provided financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11.0 million is
supplementing the program. This program has progressed well. All funds
have been fully committed and studies have been completed.
Credit No. 1006    Third Power Project: US$65.0 million Credit of April 24,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and dicsel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand
through 1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and
the Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are
cofinancing this project.
Credit No. 1022    New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40.0
million Credit of May 23, 1980; Effective Date:
February 18, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1118    Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project: US$32.0
million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase
cotton export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing
irrigation schemes. The project would, over a five-year period,
rehabilitate the Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation
(BNAC) and provide agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton
cultivation in the rest of the BNAC area. The African Development Fund is
cofinancing.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 1119    White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project: US$35.0
million Credit of March 27, 1L981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts under the irrigated subsector.  It is designed to support the
Government's Export Action Program. The'White Nile project would help
achieve this objective by rehabilitating, over five years, some 174 ongoing
pump schemes along the White Nile south of Khartoum.
Credit No. 1153    Second Tec'hnical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of July 2, 1981; Effective Date:
December 22, 1981; Closing Date: March 1, 1985
The Second Technical Assistance Project builds on the first but
is significantly different in that in addition to assistance for project
preparation, it provides a wider range of assistance for project
implementation and macroeconomic management. Specifically, it provides
assistance for improving accountancy training, for improved tendering and
procurement operations for debt management and national accounts.
Credit No. 1181    Western Savannah Project: US$13.0 million Credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: August 20, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This will be a pilot: development project for the long-term
development of the Western Sudan. It will: (a) test strategies for
improving livestock and range production; (b) identify and test agronomic
packages and extension methods for crop production; and (c) test approaches
to settlement and soil conservation. This project replaces the Savannah
Development Project (Credit 7].8-SIJ), the balance of which was cancelled
upon effectiveness of this Credit.
Credit No. 1201    Agricultural Services Project: US$18 million equivalent
Credit of March 11, 1982; Effective Date: October 28,
1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
This project would strengthen the institutional structure of the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan and provide a package of credit, essential
inputs and services to private farmers in three selected areas.
Credit No. 1233    Second Port Project: US$25 million equivalent Credit of
August 20, 1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982;
Closing Date: J'une 30, 1986
This project would improve physical handling capacity and
operational productivity, enabling Port Sudan to meet project:ed traffic
until 1987. This would supplement the first Port Project (Credit 781-SU)
through berth modifications, improvement of grain and edible oil handling
facilities, and increased efficiency in general port operations.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: 12 months
(b)  Preparation by:  Euroconsult Consortium under contract to
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: (June 1979)
(d) First Bank Mission: June 1979
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: June 1982
(f) Completion.of Negotiations: April 15, 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1983
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
US$600,000 Advance from PPF so that lead elements can get under
way as early as possible (para. 42).
III. Special Conditions
Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness are listed in Part V
of this report. Major conditions of this credit, either included
in the conditions of effectiveness or otherwise agreed with the
Government, include:
(a)     GOS would provide adequate funds for works identified
during the 1982 detailed inspection of Roseires dam and
ensure that MOAI carries out these works before June 30,
1985 (para. 50);
(b)     The dams at Sennar and Roseires would be inspected and
maintained by GOS according to an action program prepared
no later than December 31, 1983 and acceptable to IDA
(para. 50);
(c)     GOS would furnish, no later than December 31, 1983, a
ten year program for investments in the irrigation
sub-sector (para. 51);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2'
(d)     GOS would establish the RPMU and make it fully
operational no later than September 30, 1983 (para.
48);
(e)     GOS would makce arrangements for the supply of fuel in
accordance with ,estimates incorporated in the Annual Work
Program (para. 56);
(f)     Cotton and wheat prices for producers set on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Association would be
announced, ai-ter consultation with the Association, no
later than December 1 and November 1 respectively each
year (paras. 52 and 53);
(g)     Machinery hire rates and land and water charge rates
would be based oni criteria acceptable to the Association,
and land and water charges would be announced each year,
no later than May 1, after consultation with the
Association (para. 54); and
(h)     The SGB will prepare and submit annual work programs, and
a comprehensive joint review of project progress will be
conducted at mid-term of the project (para. 47).
(i)     Cofinancing of at least US$50 million equivalent will be
required to be available for disbursement as a condition
of effectiveness, and the remaining US$23.4 million
equivalent will be required to be available for
disbursement by December 31, 1983 (para. 46).



-25'                                                                                                                                                   25,~~~~~~~~2'0
-25   S  U  D  A  N                    ~~~~~~MILES,  TO    1    00       2          000\                               =; t :                        25
GEZIRA REHABILITATION                                                  23       00      00      00
PROJECT                                                                                    $
Location  of Project Area                                                                                 1                          00             N
01?L0(>T ON 0F ER000 0000RA/   /=X 
W    100000105 5000000                                                ARAB        REPUBLIC    O             EGYPT                    - 
~~~ 00000. 000000,OL,00000020L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.1
ooi, Wo00                                                                          42+1 2)   2   
P--REOOINOIOL 00000200.00          j                                                                       -lt I\                                 :t  
-        ITERNO0IONOL 300N00RIES  j2"                                                         <                                              1  
j                O   R   T  H                                             / R  A/
-J - - - - - - - - - - - - -~S                                       B    A             Rot S0or
CHAD               i                                                             K \rher                                             001000
i ] \ \~~~~~/                                               N  /   LDDr/
i----   ----e"                                                                           )
,5- ~~~ i                   H        5     Re- /VL?/_                                                      U           Nw btm,  
'tJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~\   C'   T  H,.> .R A/t RA> %        31E GNA{,
\5  0  U  T /W        E             -        U T H E R ~ I              0                         0N    I E0 
el,       Z)  D                  R f                    K  R                                                              Gd .. F       ,/Et t       
v~~~~~E F,          ,  z71                  -                                               -        
)    B  A,/fA                                                                          0 0l0 0t  NeKIfK         - .   L               V F
C    (T  NOLAFR TIgE                N          E  A Nd
R E P U B L I C   !  7  >    ,eB UR8mbEekOY R A  Tg  Z  U  L7 -ZAV
;        -7   3               ,                            L          T  *' / R  N   Al )        t          TERN           -
L X                                  <\N A       F H  E  RN                      E%ooo                  A t>
0'         9      <                                  '<     x \./   \                 8       To i A-H-R     Z
;  XA F ReA  .z                                                          <.  Osel      S        _. , 9        o A Z A   
CE           D RA     R        F              ZI    R    -         iE  Z                      e N,G.'deret'-,
Geeio{-02                    Otsestderoo 3e        Krrw#hEUa@str (9   R   0   0    F  A    N   ,     00o000 t    f               4                           |
7   /    D.sozengeis  'V.               7o s  OME n N etWold  ElP Oted  b   U AOO00  N     i\02KENY  
/SOUTHERNX                        Bobonus~~~~'E 5TEk                             A TR
f~~~~ ,0                            S /0r9to                       .       ..                               7/                            '-t..,,.,,. hOr ..   mvS -  ~         
=  '----3'    BA>.            ..........                            ....... E0'  rj)  \3'  1 
CENTRAL AFRICAN                                                         JUNO~~~6 7  EUArRI
REPUBLIC                            ~~~~~~OF ZAIRE        RT 
kE&I9TOR/A~~~~~~~~~              ~ N           OR/AAKENYA
u                        M     f N.-~~~~~          C



