Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4218-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 15, 1983
Eastern Africa Project Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pound           =        100 piastre
LSd 1.00                 =        US$2.0 (official 1980/81)
LSd 1.00                 =        US$1.25 (parallel) 1980/81
LSd 1.00                 -       USi$1.1 (Nov. 1981-Nov. 1982)
LSd 1.00                 =        US$0.77 (since Nov. 1982)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan (fd)      =   0.42 hectare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton)        143 kilogram(kg)
Kilowatt ('w)   =   1.36 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS           Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARC           Agriculture Research Corporation
ARP           Agricultural Rehabilitation Prog:ram
AWP           Anlnual Work Program
BNHP          Blue Nile Health Project
CPC           Cotton Public Corporation
EAP           Expcrt Action Program
:EC           European Economic Colmmunity
ELS           Extra Long Staple Cotton
EMC           Earth Mioving Corporation
FOP           Field Outlet Pipe
GLPR          Gezira Light Railway
GOS           Gcvernment of Sudan
IBRD          Irternational Bank for Reconstruction & Develop.
IDA           International DevelopiMent Association
M40FEP        Hinistry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOAI          Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation
I>IA I()      MCAI Irrigation Department
Moil          Ministry of Health
MS            Medium Staple Cotton
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PMC           Project Management Committee
PPC           Project Procurement Committee
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RPMU          Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
RWA           Rural Water Administration
SCPO          Sudan Company for Processing of Oilseeds
SGB           Sudan Gezira Board
SOC           Sudan Oilseeds Corporation
SOE           Stateiaent of Expenditures
SPTC          Sudan Public Telecommiunications Corporation
WHO           World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



-i-                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILIATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page
I.      BACKGROUND
A. General  .........           .............................   1
B. The Agricultural Sector .......................  1
C. Recovery Strategy and Project Rationale .......  3
D. Bank Group Role ...............................  5
II.    THE PROJECT AREA
A. General Description ...........................  6
B. Agriculture ...................................  8
C. Irrigation and Drainage .......................  11
D. Infrastructure ................................  13
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Project Description ...........................  15
B., Project Components ............................  16
C. Status of Engineering .........................  22
D. Cost Estimates ................................  23
E. Financing Plan ................................  25
F. Procurement .............                                       27
G  Disbursement ..................................  28
H. Information Systems, Accounts and Audit .......  29
I,, Water Demand and Availability .................  30
J. Environmental  Impact ..........................  32
K. Mid-Term Review ...............................  32
IV.    IMPLEMENTATION
A. General .......................................  33
B. Project Execution .............................  33
C. Annual Work Program ...........................  34
D. Sudan Gezira Board ............................  36
E. Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation (Irrig.).  37
F. Agricultural Research Corporation .............  38
G. Blue Nile Health Project ......................  38
H. Rural Water Administration ....................  38
I. Sudan Public Telecommunications Corporation ...  38
J. Private Sector Machinery Operations ...........  38
K. Monitoring,  Evaluation and Reporting  ....               .....  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Agricultural Production ........................ 39
B. Marketing and Pricing .. 41
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND TENANTS' INCOME
A. SGB's Cost Recovery System ..... ............... 43
B. SGB's Financial ResuLts .45
C. Other Project Entities' Financial Results.        45
D. Government Cash Flow .46
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUST:tFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production Benefits..                            46
B. Other Benefits .....................              46
C. Economic Analysis .47
D. Project Risks ...................... 48
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED .49
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table  1:     Gezira:  Project Cost Summary
Table  2:     Gezira:  Financing Plan
Table  3:     Gezira:  Financing for Different Categories of Goods and
Services
Table  4:     Gezira:  Area, Yield and Productioii
Table  5:     Gezira:  Input Application Rates with and without the Project



- iii -
ANNEXES TO STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES
1          Project Components by Time
2          Current Financial Prices
3          Financial Analysis - Supplementary Tables
1. Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates
2. Gezira Board Income and Expenditure Account
3. Gezira Board - Projected Cash Flows
4. Gezira Farmers' Incomes
5. MOAI(I) - Projected Cash Flows
6. Government Incremental Cash Flows Under the Project
7. Government Incremental Foreign Exchange Earnings under
Project
4          Disbursement Tables
1. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2. Categories of Expenditure
5          Agricultural Data - Supplementary Tables
1.  Area, Yield and Production 1972-82
2. Area, Yield and Production With and Without Project
3. Meteorological Data
4. Monthly Water Requirements at Sennar Dam
6          Research Program Objectives
7          Annual Work Program
8          Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services
9          Studies
10          Training
11          Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
I.      Gezira Rehabilitation Project:  Project Management
II.     Gezira Rehabilitation Project - Simplified Organigram
III.    Sudan Gezira Board
IV.     Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Irrigation Department)
V.      Crop Rotations
VI.     Implementation Schedule
MAP S
Map of Sudan with Project Location (IBRD No. 16493)
Map of Project Area - Irrigation and Drainage Systems (IBRD
No. 16494)



. E



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CHAPTER I
1. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01       The Government of Sudan has requested Bank Group assistance for
financing the rehabilitation of the Gezira Irrigation Scheme, where
production has fallen sharply during the last decade.   The Project area,
covering 2.1 million feddans (fd) equivalent to 0.9 million hectares, lies
between the Blue and White Nile in Central Sudan and is managed by the
Sudan Gezira Board (SGB), a public corporation. Production responsi-
bilities are divided between SGB, the Central Government Irrigation
Ministry and the 102,000 tenants on the scheme. The main crops are cotton
(Sudan's major export), sorghum, wheat and groundnuts. The proposed
Project would aim to increase production and productivity of the principal
crops grown on the scheme. Measures would include rehabilitation of the
irrigation and drainage systems and infrastructure, better land preparation
and improved input delivery systems, strengthened management and
appropriate producer incentives. The financial solvency of SGB would be
restored through adoption and enforcement of suitable price and cost
recovery policies and there would be a substantial increase in the
Governxtent's foreign exchange earnings and revenues, principally from
expanded cotton exports. During the Project period, studies and trials
would be undertaken for upgrading technology and restructuring
institutional arrangements, setting the stage for further modernization of
the sch,eme. The Project was prepared by Euroconsult (the Netherlands) in
association with Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (UK) and TCS (Sudan). The
preparation was financed jointly by the Kuwait Fund and IDA and supervised
by a Project Steering Committee established by Government. This report is
based on findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Sudan in May/June 1982 and
a follow-up mission in October 1982. The missions included J. Shivakumar,
S. Barghouti, M. Bromhead, G.A.V. Buttex, G. Clarkson, I. Foik, A.
Hartmarn, R. Masthagan, A. Raza, C. Smith and B. Woods (IDA) and P. Sell,
O.A. Ballal, N. Prescott and B. Shawki (consultants).
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80% of the population and contributes about
40% of GDP and 95% of exports. The Bank published a survey of the
Agricu:Ltural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a review of the
sector is included in the Bank economic report "Sudan-Investing for
Economic Stabilization and Structural Change" issued in February 1982
(Report No. 3551a-SU).



-2-
The Irrigation Subsector
1.03       The first large-scale gravity irrigated project in Sudan was
started in the 1920's at Gezira, initially for the cultivation of cotton as
an export crop.  There are now five major irrigation schemes:  Gezira-
Managil (2 millIon feddans), New Halfa (0.4 million feddans), Rahad (0.3
million feddans), and the Blue and White Nile Pump schemes covering 0.7
million feddans. About 50% of agriculturaLl export earnings were derived
from cotton in the 1970-80 decade, mostly from the irrigation schemes.
The most striking feature of agricultural export patterns in the seventies
was the sharp decline in the volume of exports of Sudan,'s traditional cash
crops, long staple (ELS) cottorn, sesame and groundnuts. The annual export
volume of these three crops averaged only 81,000 tons, 41,000 tons and
43,000 tons, respectively during the 1979-81 periDd, compared to 168,000
tons, 70,000 tons and 99,000 tons in 1972-74. Only because the terms of
trade were in Sudan's favor during the period, bo:h for cotton and for
oilseeds, was the decline in value not more dramatic.  Nevertheless, the
reduction in agricultural exports has played a major part in Sudan's
current economic difficulties.
1.04      There are many causes for this decline.  The maintenance of
existing irrigation schemes has been neglected in favor of new expansion.
Crop diversification and intensification in the early seventies placed a
strain on delivery of inputs and management. The flight of skilled
manpower to neighboring oil-prcducing countries compounded the problem.
Perhaps most important, the Governments its weak i-iscal base strained for
cash to finance new investments, held the producer price for cotton low so
as to maximize short-term budgetary revenues. Cotton ceased to be an
attractive crop for tenants, who increasingly devoted more attention to
other crops and off-farm activities, while producing corporations were
unable to cover maintenance costs and replace equipment. Declining exports
also led to shortages of the foreign exchange needed to buy spare parts and
inputs. These inputs were delivered late, cultivation techniques
deteriorated, and yields of all crops fell.
1.05      The pattern of production relations developed at Gezira, the
oldest and largest scheme, has served as a model for the others. After
attempts to use wage labor and a rental system failed, a partnership was
developed based on the traditional allocation of crop shares on lands
adjacent to the scheme.  Profits were divided betwreen the Government,
responsible for developing and providing irrigaticn to the land, a
corporation responsible for agricultural services, and itenants, responsible
for supplying labor, seed, tools and farm animals. Under this system, most
of the items of expenditure incurred by agricultural corporations for the
different crops grown on the tenancies were deducted from the total
revenues received from cotton sqles by the corporation concerned.  The net



revenues from cotton were then distributed in Gezira (and along a similar
pattern in other schemes) as follows: 36% to the Government for land use,
dam and canal maintenance and provision of water; 10% to the corporations
for meeting overhead costs; and 47% to the tenants.  A further 2% was set
aside for a local government tax, 3% for a Social Services Fund and 2% for
a Tenants' Reserve Fund. The tenants' share was then divided by total
scheme production of seed cotton to arrive at a price per kantar of seed
cotton payable to each tenant. The Joint Account created a strong bias in
the minds of tenants against cotton.  Input costs were recovered per kantar
of cotton produced rather than per feddan of area planted. This penalized
the more productive cotton growers, whose actual per kantar costs were
lower. Over the years the tenants' share increased from 40% to 47%
although increasing responsibilities, for instance sowing and fertilizer
application, had been transferred to the corporations. Consequently, the
corporations increasingly lacked revenue to discharge their
responsibilities effectively. The most serious consequences of the Joint
Account System, however, were felt when cotton yields fell at the same time
as other crops became increasingly important. These crops are privately
marketed and input costs cannot be recovered at sale. Therefore, land and
water costs for these crops were recovered from cotton revenues. Cotton,
bearing the burden of these other charges, therefore became less and less
attractive to tenants.
C. Recovery Strategy and Project Rationale
1.06       Recognizing the severity of the problem, the Government, with the
Bank, drew up the Export Action Program (EAP) in 1980 designed to restore
production to the levels of the early 1970s. The EAP contains provision
for: (i) urgently needed investments aimed at satisfying requirements for
spare parts, machinery and equipment in order to arrest decapitalization
which has plagued the subsector; (ii) allocation of foreign exchange to
finance larger imports of current inputs of which there has been a serious
shortage; (iii) a series of rehabilitation projects, with IDA support, to
be carried out in the 1980s, principally in the major agricultural schemes
where cotton is grown; and (iv) policy reforms and other actions such as
institutional reforms and revision of the incentive systems intended to
stimulate greater production. In line with the strategy embodied in the
EAP, IDA also financed projects for the rehabilitation of the New Halfa
(Credit 1022-SU), Blue Nile Pump (Credit 1118-SU), and White Nile Pump
(Credit 1119-SU) schemes. All rehabilitation projects include measures to
improve management capabilities, such as the design of regular work
programs and improved financial management, technical assistance and
training.
1.07      The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program of US$76 million (IDA
Credit 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Program of US$11
million) financed urgently needed requirements for spare parts, machinery
and equipment in order to arrest the decapitalization of the 1970s.  This
credit was disbursed over a two-year period. Three reports of particular
importance to irrigated production have resulted from ARP financed



studies .  They are.  (i) "Study' of Cost Recovery in the Irrigated
Agricultural Sector"; (ii) "Study of Cotton Markel:ing"; and (iii)
"Administrative Review of the Irrigation Sector".  These studies drew up
recommendations for policy reform which may be grouped under four main
headings:   (i) Improvement of cost recovery and reform of accounting
systems; (ii) Reform of cotton pricing mechanisms; (iii) Improvement of
cotton processing and marketing systems; and (iv) Improvement of Government
support and supervision of parastatals.  Progress towards implementing
these reforms is described in the following paragraphs.
lo08       In June 1980, the Government announced that the Joint Account
System would be abolished and replaced by an individual accounting system.
Tenants would be charged for each input for each sindividual crop.  Accounts
would be kept separately for each tenant, and debts would be recorded for
cash advances, inputs, services and land and water charges primarily on a
per feddan basis.  On this basis, farmers would receive a much. larger share
of their marginal increases in production, thus increasing the incentive to
produce.  With effect from 1981/82, the individual account system has been
introduced on all schemes.
D309       Also in June 1980, the Government announced two other reforms.
The first was to announce publicly, each year before harvest, a producer
p-rice for cotton.  The second was to pay tenants l-heir cotton incomes
promptly on delivery of seed cotton on the basis of the new individual
account system. As a result, tenants were, for the first time in over half
a century, able to estimate incomes from cotton reliably since distortions
caused by uncertainty over prices, unpredictable cashflows, and adjustments
of non-cotton charges against cotton sale proceeds were eliminated. This
gave them the opportunity to make rational decisions on allocation of
efforts between tending the cotton crop and other competing claims on their
time and has contributed to the remarkable improvement in productivity
achieved in the last two years. Cotton prices for the 1980/81, 1981/82 and
1982/83 seasons were announced in early December each year and provided
adequate incentives for growers.
1.10       Cotton is exported by the Sudan Cotton Public Corporation (CPC)
-which generally obtains favorable prices for cotton exports. However,
tecthnical and institutional improvements are needed so that it can operate
on more commercial lines.  These issues are being addressed during the
preparation of a Cotton Marketing Project currently under way.
1.11      An important decision taken by Government in November 1981 was to
amalgamate the ministries of agriculture and irrig;ation into a single
Ministry for Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI). Another notable
accomplishment was the establishment, through the ARP, of a strong
procurement capability within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
with the establishment of a Program Procurement Committee (PPC).  Plans are
now under way to establish a unit in the MOAI, staffed with competent
specialists, to review and revise ministry accounting, to monitor and
evaluate performance of all parastatals, and to extend technical assistance



and evaluate the impact of governmental policies on them.  This unit will
be supported under the Blue Nile Rehabilitation Project.
1.12       On the whole, available evidence indicates that physical
rehabilitation efforts and policy reforms have reversed the downward slide
in production and productivity. After a further decline in 1980/81,
irrigated cotton production increased 59% in 1981/82 compared to the
previous year, and another 21% in 1982/83 compared to 1981/82. Yields have
doubled in the past two years but it should be remembered that yields in
1980/81 were at an all time low. Other irrigated crops also have made
impressive gains in the past two years.
1.13      Gezira makes a major contribution to the national economy and its
rehabilitation would be a significant element of Sudan's program for
economiLc recovery. During the 1970's it produced about 60% of the nation's
cotton,, 35% of its groundnuts, 75% of its wheat and 10% of its sorghum. In
1979, its total share in export earnings, largely from cotton, was 47%.
Although production has declined on Gezira for the reasons already
described (para. 1.04), it still has the strongest management of any of the
irrigation schemes, and has been less affected than other Government
institutions by the flight of manpower to the Gulf. The reforms summarized
above have provided the necessary policy conditions for investment of the
scale needed to rehabilitate the scheme.
D. Bank Group Role
1.14      Agricultural Credits form a large proportion of total Bank
lending to Sudan, averaging half the lending through the 1970's, including
six irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, three
smallholder development projects (two in the south and one in the west), a
livestock marketing project, an agricultural research project and the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program. The Bank was involved with the
financing of the Roseires Dam (Loan 258-SU and Credit 2-SU) completed in
1960. A Project Performance Report was completed on the Roseires project
and circulated on July 10, 1974. This was followed up by an Impact
Evaluation Report on the Roseires Irrigation Project (No. 3051 dated June
30, 1980). This report conlcuded that the economic rate of return of the
Project was 14% and that the net socio-economic impact of the project, for
the country as a whole and for most of the population directly affected,
was positive. The use of Roseires storage in the Managil extension of the
Gezira scheme and in new irrigation under the Rahad Project was also
supported by the Bank (Loan 258-SU and Credits 364-SU and 364-2-SU).
1.15      Project implementation in Sudan, for agriculture as for most
other sectors, has faced bottlenecks. There has been difficulty getting
key materials such as cement, fuel and imported farm inputs on time and in
sufficient quantities because of foreign exchange shortages and transport
difficulties. Disbursements have been slower than scheduled, closing dates
have .Erequently been extended, and gestation periods have been longer than
expected, leading to a lag in benefits.



- 6 -
CHAPTER II
IHE PROJECT AREA
A. General Description
Climate, Topography and Soils
2.01      The Sudan Gezira is a vast plain lying between the White and Blue
Niles, sloping gently from south to north-west; the Project area (Map IBRD
No. 16493) would be the wrhole of the Gezira Irrigation scheme lying in this
plain. The climate is semi-arid with a short rainy season from July to
September in which 85% of the annual rain falls. There is a cool dry
winter from November to February and a hot summer from April to June. Mean
maximum temperatures are 330C in January and 410C in May, while mean minima
are 140C in January and 250C in June. The average annual rainfall varies
from around 400 mm in the south to about 200 mm in the extreme north of the
area and varies widely from year to year.
2.02      The soils are fairly uniform, cracking, self-mulching clays which
have a loose granular surface structure. Although the organic content is
low, the physical properties and behavior of these fertile impermeable
clays under irrigation make them well suited to good yields. Despite 60
years of irrigation, salinity is not a problem.
Production Relations
2.03      Production responsibiLities on the scheme are dividedl between
SGB, the Central Government and the farmers. SGB determines crop
rotations and prepares the land.   For cotton, SGB is responsible for
application of fertilizer and pesticides, seed propagation and distribution
and ginning. It has 13 ginneries with a daily production capacity of over
900 tons of lint. It is responsible for the maintenance of the
infrastructure, which includes a railway network (1,055 km) known as the
Gezira Light Railway (GLR) used mainly for transporting cotton. SGB is
also responsible for field level water management including the operation
of field outlet pipes (FOP) from minor canals.  SGB is thus a Large,
centrally managed corporation. The Central Government, through the
irrigation department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
(MOAI[I]) is responsible for water delivery, and the operation and
maintenance of headworks and the canal systems.
2.04      Farmers do not own their land but are tenants.  The area is
divided into 102,000 tenancies with an average area of about 20 fd.  The
size of a regular tenancy in Gezira was originally 40 fd, but a number of
tenancies have been converted to half-tenancies over the years. The area
of the Managil tenancy is 15 fd. In total, about 1.5 million people
(nearly 10% of Sudan's population) are dependent on the Scheme for their
livelihood. Tenants supply or hire the labor, tend the crops, pick seed
cotton and transport it to ginnery collection centers. After ginning, it



- 7 -
is handed over to the Cotton Public Corporation (CPC) for export. Other
crops are marketed privately, and tenants have more latitude in their
cultivation than for cotton.
2.05       The Joint Account System was in vogue until 1980, and the recent
reforms to replace it with an individual account have been described in
paragraphs 1.05 and 1.08. A Bank Report issued in June 1982 entitled
"Sudan: Incentives for Irrigated Cotton - Progress Towards Reform" (Report
No. 3810-SU) describes in some detail past and present production
relationships.
The Tenant System
2.06       The tenant system, designed in the 1920's, has become
increasingly unsatisfactory as social and economic changes have evolved.
Given the institutional constraints, present average tenancy sizes of 20 fd
are generally too small to allow economies of scale through use of capital
intens:ive technology and too large for efficient application of labor
intens[ve technology. Enlargement of tenancies is prevented by a legal
ceiling of 40 fd per tenancy while scope for formal sub-division into
smaller units is limited because tenants cannot legally mortgage, sell or
sub-divide their holdings, but must pass them on to their heirs. Tenants
continue to have little say in what they grow or how they grow it.
Inadequate land preparation by SGB and difficulties with irrigation water
supply may have an adverse effect on yields however diligently the tenant
discharges his own responsibilities. Thus for the tenants, the link
between effort and output is weakened, while the limited control they have
over production may now be less than their experience and skills warrant.
2.07       Tenancies were originally designed to be worked by the tenant and
his family; but hired labor has always been important on the Scheme.
Currently, about 15% of labor requirements are met by family labor, 29% by
resident hired labor, and 56% by migrant labor.  Sharecropping arrangements
are comnmon for the groundnut crop. Tenant participation in agriculture has
fallen over two generations of rising living standards and better
education, and it is estimated that over half of all tenants are now no
longer directly involved in farming.  There is need for major structural
reforms in the nature, size and pattern of holding of tenancies. However,
this is a sensitive area and considerable study and analysis would be
needed before revision can be proposed.
Service Institutions
2.08       The production responsibilities of SGB and MOAI(I) have been
described in para. 2.03.  In addition, SGB is responsible for procurement
of inputs and preparation of annual budgets which are submitted to the
Minister (not the Ministry) of Agriculture, to whom it is directly
responsible. Desilting and other earthworks are contracted out by MOAI(I)
to the Earth Moving Corporation (EMC), a commercially run parastatal
attached to MOAI(I). The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC), a



- 8 -
national body, is responsible for all research conducted on the Gezira
scheme and has a research station at Wad Medani. The CPC (para. 2.04),
established in 1970, is responsible for cotton marketing and exports. The
Rural Water Administration (RWA), under the Regional Ministry of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities, is responsible for rural wrater
supplies. The Blue Nile Health Project (BNHP), established under the
Ministry of Health (MOH) with World Health Organizatioa (WHO) assistance in
1979, coordinates efforts to control the major water related diseases on
the Gezira and Rahad schemes. The Sudan Public Telecommunications
Corporation (SPTC) is responsible for the telephone network throughout the
country.
2.09      A number of factors have combined to place heavy stress on
trained manpower employed on the scheme. These include the country-wide
skilled manpower shortages; the declining pre-eminence of SGB as a first
choice employer; a backlog for foreign training resulting from the
country's increasing foreign exchange difficulties; an unusual age profile
of SGB staff in which a large number of staff would reach pensionable age
during the proposed Project period; the change tc the system of individual
accounts; and new skills needed for new equipment and practices being
introduced.  Training expertise and training mechanisms within SGB are
Inadequate to handle the large volume and wide range of training required
at all levels.
B. Agriculture
Production and Yields
2.10      The main crops are cotton, wheat, groundnuts and sorghum.  In
1981/82, the total cropped area was 1.3 million fd, of which 435,000
were devoted to cotton, 247,000 to wheat, 344,OOC to sorghum and 262,000
to groundnuts. Annex 5.1 illustrates changes in production, yields and
area during the period 1972-82. The total area under cotton declined
substantially because of increasing management, physical and financial
constraints. Sorghum and groundlnut areas, depending less on SGB
interventions and being crops for which tenants could obtain attractive
prices, increased substantially. The wheat area also increased as part of
the Government's import substitution drive. Yield declines were dramatic
for cotton, less so for the other crops.  The recent improvem,ents in yields
are worth notice and reflect the impact of policy reforms and investment
under the ARP (paras. 1.06 to L.1l).
Farming Systems
2.11        Cotton, groundnuts, wheat and sorghum are cultivated in a
four-course rotation including a fallow in Gezira and a three-course
rotation without fallow in Managil. Vegetables are grown on 40,000
fd. Though fodder is not included in the rotation, substantial areas
(40,000 fd) are grown through summer irrigation. For operational purposes,



- 9 -
the scheme is divided into 107 blocks, under 14 groups. Crops are grown on
90 fd fields, known as "numbers", each divided into five feddan fields
known as "hawashas". SGB provides land preparation services, fertilizers
and treated seed for cotton and wheat. Tenants are responsible for land
preparation for the other crops.
2.12       Current input application rates are low for wheat, groundnuts and
sorghum (para. 5.03). Herbicides were introduced on a commercial scale in
1979/80, mainly for cotton, and more than 0.5 million fd were treated in
1981/82. Private contractors carry out pesticide application by aerial
spraying.  Government has generally regarded allocation of foreign exchange
for these imported inputs as a high priority, though delays and shortages
have hampered field operations on occasions.
Farm Machinery
2.13       For cotton, mechanization is limited to land preparation.  For
wheat, land preparation, planting and harvesting are all done mechanically,
with the private sector providing most of the services. Sorghum and
groundnuts are cultivated manually, except for land preparation which is
mechanized and usually carried out by the private sector. Harvesting and
threshing of sorghum is done manually. Attempts are being made to
mechanize planting for cotton and harvesting for cotton and groundnuts, but
investments in these areas have so far been small.
2.14      The Agricultural Engineering Department of SGB has a fleet of 80
crawlers of 125-150 kw, 100 wheel tractors of 110 kw, and 280 tractors in
the 50-60 kw range, together with associated implements. This fleet
includes 25 crawlers, 188 tractors and associated implements procured under
the ARP. Estimates on the number of private sector tractors vary.
Tractors owned by scheme inhabitants may be as many as 1,000; however, they
are frequently sent to the rainfed areas where tractor hire rates are more
attractive than on the scheme. Lack of fuel has hampered efficient
operations, and shortage of private sector tractors has seriously delayed
field operations. It is estimated that only 350 tractors may actually be
available on Gezira at present. However, the private sector fleet strength
is being augmented by 225 tractors supplied to tenants by the Agricultural
Bank of Sudan. The credit arrangement restricts the use of these tractors
to the scheme area and has been extended with the help of French
assistance. While there are 350 to 400 combined harvesters available, fuel
shortages and high hire rates resulted in some of the wheat crop not being
harvested in 1982.
Research and Extension
2.15      ARC is responsible for the development and testing of new
varieties related to Gezira. SGB has a small extension department which
handles advisory services, demonstration plots, "contact" farmers, and the
preparation of literature. However, there are only 11 extension
officers working at group level. Field and block inspectors are not



- 10 -
trained in extension, and the link between applied research and the
development of new farming systems and cultivation techniques is weak.
This has seriously affected yield improvement at farm level.  ;For instance,
cotton yields (1,300 kg/fd of seed cotton on experimental stations) average
400 kg/fd on tenants' fields. Likewise, wheat yields (1,500 kg/fd on
experimental stations) average 340 kg/fd in Gezira, while groundnut yields
(2,200 kg!fd on research stations) average 700 kg/fd on the scheme.  Again,
sorghum yields under field conditions average 500 kg/fd, though the
potential under irrigation is as high as 2,000 kg/fd.  There has been
little work done on development of improved varieties for non-cotton
crops.
2.16      Low yields for cotton are caused by uneven seeding rates and
tardy introduction of new varieties. For wheat, they arise from late
planting, irregular stands, weed and pest infestat:ion, and the fact that
heat-tolerant varieties adapted to the short growing season are not used on
the scheme. For groundnuts the main problems are poor land preparation,
too wide spacing, inadequate watering, shortage of fertilizers, weed
infestation and lack of development of new varieties. For sorghum, grown
extensively with few inputs and little attention, land preparation is poor,
irrigation neglected, weeds are abundant and the crop lacks nitrogen,
resulting in yields which are very low for an irrigated crop. All these
problems need to be addressed through an improved applied research and
extension program.
Livestock
2.17      The livestock in the scheme are owned by tenants and seasonal
labor. While some herds remain on the scheme, others move in and out from
the rangelands outside the scheme, which have deteriorated due to over-
grazing. Livestock owned by the nomads cause considerable damage,
particularly during the dry season. The level of animal husbandry is
generally low. On the average, scheme tenants own eight livestock units
but data for livestock on the scheme are unreliable. Unofficial figures
estimate the total heads crossing the scheme on an annual basis at half a
million units. Despite the large number of livestock units (1.2 million)
dependent on the scheme, the problem of better integration of livestock
into the farming system has yet t1o be addressed. The animals feed on crop
residues, stubble and weeds grown on canal banks. Fallow lands are usually
irrigated to encourage the growth of weeds for grazing purposes. The value
of livestock as an agricultural enterprise increases in blocks close to
main towns where it is easy to market milk, meat and poultry. There is
good potential for improving livestock production through better
integration within the cropping system, and upgrading the veterjinary
services. SGB has recently recognized the importance of livestock and has
established an Animal Production Department. The information base for this
sub-sector has not yet been adequately developed.



- 11 -
Credit
2.18       SGB provides practically all services and inputs for cotton.
The cost of these items is recovered after harvest and credit is thus
extended for them. SGB also provides cash advances for labor operations
performed through tenants, which again is adjusted when crop proceeds are
paid to tenants. For other crops, tenants rely on the "sheil" or private
money lending system, which provides timely credit albeit at high rates of
interest. Medium term credit is extended to tenants for purchase of
agricultural machinery by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) which has a
branch in Wad Medani. No comprehensive review of credit operations on the
scheme h-ias ever been carried out.
C. Irrigation and Drainage
Diversion and Storage
2.19      Water for the Scheme is diverted mostly by gravity from the Blue
Nile at Sennar (Map IBRD No. 16494). Because the flow of the Blue Nile
during the months of December to May is insufficient, storage capacity is
required to meet the irrigation demands of Gezira and other schemes
(920,000 fd) on the Blue Nile. Storage is provided on the Blue Nile at
Sennar (net capacity 0.57 milliard m3) and at Roseires (net capacity 2.58
milliard m3) some 200 km upstream; this is adequate for present needs.
While the live storage capacity at Sennar has now attained equilibrium,
that for the Roseires dam is being reduced at the rate of 20 million
m3/year. Hydropower is generated at both dams but the reservoirs are
operated strictly to irrigation requirements. Both dams were inspected in
1982 by their original designers and certain recommended remedial
maintenance is to be carried out.
Pumping Stations
2.20      Four pumping stations draw water directly from the Blue Nile to
command 87,000 fd and nine stations divert water from the gravity canals to
serve high lift areas totalling 105,000 fd. Most stations require
rehabilitation. The pumping station at Mezagila would need replacement.
Irrigation System
2.21      Water, conveyed by two main canals with a total nominal capacity
of 31.05 million m3/day (347m3/sec), is distributed through a system of
branch, major and minor canals and water courses known as Abu Ishreen (Abu
XX) and Abu Sitta (Abu VI)1/. The Abu VI are maintained and operated by
1/ Arabic: literally "father of 20" and "father of six" respectively for
courses governing 20 or 6 field channels. The Abu XX conveys water to
the "numbers" while the Abu VI caters to the "hawashas" (para. 2.11).



- 12 -
the tenants.  Flow from minor canal to Abu XX is regulated by field outlet
pipe (FOP). Minor canals and Abu XX are operated by SGB whith also carries
out the maintenance of Abu XX,  Maintenance of the minor canals and
operation as well as maintenance of the rest of the system is the
responsibility of MOAI(I).
2.22       The design of the system is based on night storage in minor
canals and day field application using angaya (basin) system with hand
constructed bunds. It is a well designed system allowing precise control
and measured supply to minor canals. In recent years, mainly as a result
of financial constraints, the maintenance of the system and timely
replacement of physical resources declined leading to a reduced efficiency
of the system.  The main problems are. (i) a completely broken down
telecommunications system witlhout which water indenting and control has
become extremely difficult; (iLi) deterioratiorn of canal regulators and
structures which need repairs and in some cases complete replacement (the
valves and gates of most of the FOPs are missing and have to be replaced by
suitably designed gates); (ii:i) accumulation of a backlog of silt in canals
due to inadequate provision oi- maintenance funds by the Government; (iv)
serious weed problems in cana:Ls and reluctance of laborers to weed the
canal because of implicit heaLth hazards;; and, (v) inefficiency caused by
the split in responsibility on minor canals, i.e. operations by SGB and
maintenance by MOAI(I). However, if restored to its original condition and
operated and maintained adequately, the system could be experted to work
weii, as it did in the past.
On-Farm Water MIanagement
2.23       The field irrigation system is well designed; the topography and
soils are well suited to efficient irrigation and there is no pressing need
for sub-surface drainage. Howqever, poor on-farm water management is the
rule throughout the scheme. This is caused mainly by: (i) breach of
irrigation regulations includiing widespread night irrigation (contrary to
design) as a result of weak control over minor canals; (ii) inadequate
attention by farmers to ~.ield irrigation, particularly to surface drainage
during heavy rains; and (iii) poor upkeep of both Abu XX and Abu VI. The
present situation results from lack of capability X thin SGB to foster
irrigation ,Uiscipline and to educate the farmers in efficient water
management techniques. Measures to remedy this are called for.
Drainage
2.24       The drainage system maintained by MOAI(I) se:.-ves only to remove
the surface runoff or irrigatiLon wastes.  The original drainage system
proved to be reasonably effective but the whole system has decayed because
of inadequate raaintenance.  This has resulted in an increase in the
frequency, duration and seriousness of flooding in the fniumbers." As a
result, cultivation operations and planting schedules are disrupted in the
rainy seasons causing a fall in yields.  Poor drainage also creates serious
health hazards



- 13 -
2.25      Most of the inverted syphons which convey drainage water
underneath a canal are structurally sound but heavily silted.  Several
hundred road crossings on major drains and check weirs at the outfall of
every minor drain need to be renewed or reconstructed.  At five locations
within ithe Gezira scheme, drains discharged into large local depressions
from which water was pumped into nearby canals by means of permanent
pumping stations. All five stations have broken down and mobile pumps are
being used temporarily.
D. Infrastructure
Roads
2.26      The road system within the Gezira scheme is extensive; it
comprises some 18,000 km of roads along the canal system and 30,000 km of
farm access tracks. However, all roads are unsurfaced dirt roads and are
almost impassable when wet. Lack of adequate maintenance of drains and
deterioration of roads which run alongside these drains have been mutually
reinforcing. Increasing population and use of motor vehicles have resulted
in much heavier traffic than the road system was designed for. There is a
need for intensive maintenance of roads between major population centers,
and for upgrading the heavily trafficked road between Gezira and Managil
into an all-weather road.
Gezira Light Railway (GLR)
2.27      Transport of goods to and from Khartoum and Port Sudan is by
Sudan Railways or by road. Within the scheme they are moved by the GLR,
whose network covers about 75% of the scheme area. It is operated by SGB
and conprises 900 km of narrow gauge track serving 119 sidings and cotton
collection centers. Between 1976/77 and 1980/81 the GLR transported an
average of 126,000 tons of inputs, 50 million litres of fuel, 237,000 tons
of seed cotton and 555,000 tons of foodcrops annually. In fact, it
presently carries half the volume of goods carried by the main Sudan
Railway network.
2.28      However, of a total stock of 101 locomotives, only 51 are
serviceable. There are 1,844 wagons of which over 400 are out of service
largely because of a shortage of wheels and axles. New locomotives and
tyres for 160 wagons are expected to be provided under the ARP (para.
1.08). There are some weaknesses in the track, and certain branch lines
have rails of less than the standard 17.4 kg/m; this increases the wear on
wagon wheels.
Telecommunications
2.29      The original telephone system, the essential means of
communication on the Gezira scheme, has broken down, except for a few
places along the main railway line. As a consequence, for the control of



- 14 -
irrigation water supplies, management of field operations and
administrative affairs, messages are conveyed by motor vehicle: this is
costly and inefficient. Private radio networks have been established by
SGB and MOAI(I) but sound quality is poor, operators are lacking and there
is no link between networks.
Ginneries
2.30      There are 13 roller ginneries under the control of SGB, with a
daily capacity of 19,400 kantars of ELS cotton. Four factories are
mechanized and nine labor-intensive. Recently there have been frequent
factory stoppages from equipment breakdowns and power cuts.  Labor has been
in short supply and productivity has been low in the labor-intensive
factories. Lack of pre-cleaning and humidification equipment has lowered
cotton quality. With the introduction of MS cotton on the scheme priority
should be given to establishing saw-gins.
Handling and Storage
2.31      There are handling problems with seed cotton both at field
collecting centers and in the ginning factory yards. The storage areas
within the ginning sites and access routes from these areas to the ginning
factories are not surfaced; the seed cotton sacks pick up sand and dirt
and this lowers the quality of the cotton lint.  The manual stacking and
storage of cotton lint bales, cotton seed and fertilizer in the open is not
efficiently organized.  Fertilizer and insecticide storage facilities are
being extended under the AR:P and would be adequate; however, fuel storage
facilities remain insufficient.
Vehicles
2.32      SGB maintains more than 1,000 vehicles, including pick-ups,
cars, buses, lorries and tankers.  The economic life of a vehicle under
Gezira conditions is five years, and half the Gezira fleet is overaged.
MOAI(I) operates a fleet of 150 vehicles, of which only one-third are
operational.   Vehicles have been procured under the ARP for
both these fleets, but in the absence of a satisfactory public transport
system, some further augmentation of fleet strength is essential for
efficient operation of the scheme.
Workshops and Maintenance Facilities
2.33      The SGB workshops are situated in seven different locations.  In
addition there are facilities at all Group headquarters. The MOAI(I)
maintains scheme workshops at Wad Medani and Gorashi which carry out
maintenance and repair work on vehicles, pumps and plant and where certain
spare parts are manufactured. Field maintenance is carried out by mobile
crews at the main irrigatiorL pumping stations.



- i5 -
2.34      Workshop buildings of both MOAI(I) and SGB have insufficient
workspace or standing room area. Many machines are obsolete. Tools are
lacking and in the absence of standby generators, machines cannot be used
during the frequent power cuts.
Housing and Utilities
2.35      Housing is provided for SGB and MOAI(I) staff since many are
stationed in areas where rented accommodation is not available. Utilities
are satisfactory at Managil but less so at Gezira, particularly for lower
grade staff and many homes lack water, electricity and sanitation. Housing
for GLR maintenance gangs is insufficient but is in good condition. There
is also a shortage of suitable housing for water "gaffirs" (canal gatemen).
Health and Water Supply
2.36       The development of irrigation has adversely affected the health
of the population on the scheme. Malaria was confined to the rainy season
before irrigation was introduced; now it is endemic throughout the year.
Schistosomiasis, previously absent, has become a serious health menace.
Its prevalence has risen from 9% in the late 1940's to present levels of
over 50%. While the prevalence of schistosomiasis continues to climb, the
incidence of malaria is under control and is presently low.
2.37       Schistosomiasis is a parasitic worm infection of humans requiring
an intermediate snail host for spread of the disease to other humans.
Transmission of the disease occurs through the shedding of the eggs of the
parasite through feces and urine from infected persons who use canals as
latrines.  The canals, particularly when overgrown with weeds, provide an
ideal breeding ground for snails. Poor drainage compounds the problem.
The disease is transferred to those who come in contact with the water
courses. Safe water supply is provided to 75% of the villages in the
schem,e area; however, there are still 800 smaller villages without safe
drinking water and dependent on the canals for drinking and washing. In
the absence of sanitation facilities, defecation into canals is common.
Lack of clean water supply is also partly responsible for the high
incidence of diarrheal diseases. Manual weeding of canals exposes laborers
to particularly serious risks of schistosomiasis infection.
CHAPTER III
THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      Over a five year period the Project would be expected to raise
crop yields and production and thereby increase foreign exchange earnings.
The P'roject would also be expected to broaden the existing information base



- 16 -
in preparation for restructuring of production relations and for
institutional change on the scheme.  The expected phasing of implementation
is shown in Annex 1 and Chart VI.  The components are described below.
B. Project Components 2/
Irrigation System (US$21.6 million)
3.02      Canal Regulators arLd Structures (US$14.3 million).  As most of
the canal regulators are still in working condition, the proposed Project
would focus mainly on repair of damaged and worn out structures and gates
in addition to overdue maintenance. However, replacements are also needed
and would include 16 roller sluice gates on main canal cross and head
regulators and 66 on branch a,nd major canals; and 680 steel pipes and 475
regulator doors for the night storage weirs and pipe regulators on the
minor canals, the most widespread control structures on the schemes. Funds
would be provided to install vertical slide gates at all 24,000 FOPs. The
Project activities would include installation of 2,000 water level gauges
and repairs to masonry, bridge parapets, stone pitching and earthworks for
bridge ramps.
3.03      Canal Maintenance  (US$7.3 million).  The present program of silt
clearance in the irrigation canals carried out by EMC under contract with
MOAI(I) is satisfactory and would continue to be financed by Government
independently of the proposed. Project. To facilitate annual maintenance of
canal banks and drains by MOAI(I), six loaders, 18 tipper lorries and 12
elevating graders would be provided under the Project (US$3.6 million).
Manual weeding of canals entails health hazards and alternative systems
would have to be devised. Mechanical weed clearance by weecl cutting
machines is currently being undertaken on two pilot areas of: 50,000 fd each
under a Netherlands Government Technical Assistance Program   Initial
results appear promising but the costs are yet to be evaluated. The
Project would support research (US$2.2 million) into chemical and
biological weeding methods, using herbicides and Chinese grasscarp.  The
results would be evaluated during the Project mid-term review (para. 3.60)
and the most appropriate method introduced. In the meantime, the present
manual system would continue to operate. The Project would provide
technical assistance for upgrading the irrigation operation and maintenance
organization and overseas training for MOAI(I) staff (US$0.4 million).
Incremental maintenance costs would amount to US$1.1 million.
Drainage System (US$23.0 million)
3.04      The proposed Project is expected to restore the drainage systems
to original design standards.  The drainage worlks would consist of
2/ All amounts in this secticn are shown at baseline cost in March 1983
prices.  Incremental operatirg costs are given for the five year period.



- 17 -
excavation of silt (3.0 million m3) in 1,480 km of major drains, excavation
of 190 km: (1.2 million m3) of new main drains to complete the system and
reconstruction of 4,000 km of completely silted-up minor drains to standard
design sections.   Five new drainage pumping stations would be constructed
to replace the existing derelict stations and mobile pumps would be
provided to serve areas where installation of gravity drainage is
impossible or uneconomic. Two new syphons would be constructed, and six
hundred road crossings along major drains would be installed. Incremental
maintenance costs (US$2.7 million) are included in Project costs.
Pumping Stations (US$6.5 Million)
3.05      In order to improve water supplies to areas dependent upon
pumping stations, provision would be made for: (i) the rehabilitation of
pumps (total capacity 51.2 m3/sec) at Wad Haddad East and West, Tambul, Hag
Abdulla, Shawl 1 and 2, Rabaa, Gundal and Guneid pump stations; and (ii)
replacement of the existing Mezagila pumping station by a new electrically
driven pumping station (12.4 m3/sec).
Sennar Dam (US$4.2 Million)
3.06      The repair and maintenance works (US$4.2 million) at the Sennar
dam would be financed as part of Project activities. This work includes
repair of gates, overhauling of cranes, and upgrading of mechanical
equipment and workshop facilities.  Assurances were obtained from GOS
during negotiations that an action program would be prepared no later than
December 31, 1983, satisfactory to IDA, for the inspection and maintenance
of Sennar dam.
Agricultural Machinery (US$12.3 million)
3.07      The Project would provide required farm machinery for SGB to
enable it to carry out prescribed farm operations for cotton and clearing
of Abu VI and Abu XX on the scheme.  The Project would provide the services
of an internationally recruited agricultural machinery specialist (US$0.3
million) to improve performance in this area. Experimentation on improved
cultivation techniques would also be carried out, including gradual
replacement of disc and root ploughs and ridges by chisel ploughs.
3.08      A total of 150 tractors (55kw) would be provided to SGB (in
addition to the 98 tractors provided under ARP) at a cost of US$2.5
million. Farm implements, mainly disc ploughs, ridgers, levellers and
strippers would also be provided (US$7.2 million). Incremental machinery
operating costs of SGB would amount to US$2.3 million.
Extension, Farmer Training and Research (US$5.6 million)
3. 09     Project staff would assist SGB and ARC to develop and introduce
improved production technology. Adaptive research would concentrate on
improving local cultivation practices and the introduction, where possible,



- 18 -
of high yielding varieties suitable to the main production zones.  In
addition, ARC would develop agronomic research programs for the improvement
of the above crops (Annex 6).  This would be supported by two pilot schemes
in which on-farm trials would be carried out on selected crops (US$1.6
million).   The pilot schemes would cover two blocks, Al Gadid and Abdul
Rahman, in the Musallamya and Almunsi groups.  Equipment and expenses for
ARC and local research stations would be provided together with eight 55 kw
and four 100 kw tractors, implemtents and laboratory equipment (US$2.2
million). Incremental operating, costs of ARC would amount to US$1.3
million.
3.10      A training and visit extension system would be introd[uced on a
phased basis in two groups of the Gezira Scheme through restructuring the
existing inspectorate system. The field inspectors would assume most of
the extension responsibilities tnder the supervision of an Exte!nsion
Coordinator (para. 4.12). Provision would be made for overseas training of
eight field inspectors besides the Extension Coordinator, a training center
with office for the extension department of SGB and for training of field
staff through 30 training courses conducted over the five year
implementation period. Project activities would include regular training
of field staff, establishment of stronger links wit:h local research
stations, and a continuous flow of relevant messages and field
demonstrations. Farming communities would be reached through samads (local
leaders) and "contact" farmers.  Again, the Project would strengthen and
improve farmer education and training services by supplying the Extension
Department with new audio-visual and printing equipment, strengthening its
agricultural information and education staff, and improving the transfer of
agricultural knowledge to both tenants and field workers through revamping
the community television network operating from Wad Medani.
3.11      Project activities are expected to strengthen the Seed
Propagation Department of SGB. The seed quality of cotton, wheat, sorghum
and groundnuts would be improved through provision of equipment and
strengthening of the role of ARC in field operations. Technical assistance
would be provided and overseas training would also be available for four
seed specialists (US$0.5 million).
Workshops and Fuel Supply (US$16.3 million)
3.12      Project activities would include upgrading and extending the
facilities of SGB and MOAI(I) workshops located throughout the scheme.
Group tractor service centers would be established and group service
centers extended. Financing would be provided for extension and
hardstanding to existing workshops (US$2.8 million), equipment and spares
for all workshops (US$10.7 million), standby generators and fuel storage
(US$2.3 million).
3.13      Assistance in the form of overseas training, an applied research
unit and an internationally recruited workshop management adviser would
also be provided (US$0.3 million). Incremental operating costs would
amount to US$0.2 million.



- 19 -
Motor Vehicles (US$19.0 million)
3.14      Motor vehicles would be provided to ensure mobility of field
staff and supervision and delivery of services to farmers. Estimates of
requirements for SGB comprise 211 light and four-wheel drive vehicles, 61
two-wheel drive vehicles, seven lorries (7 ton), 15 fuel tankers and nine
fire lorries. Motor vehicle requirements for MOAI(I) would be 75 light and
four-wheel drive vehicles and 26 lorries (7 ton). Six lorries (7 ton) and
four light mobile maintenance (1/2 ton) units would be provided for RWA.
Roads (US$4.6 million)
3.15      Spot repairs and deferred and annual maintenance on 6,000 km of
roads which are used frequently by lorries (US$3.2 million) would be
carried out. Most of these roads lie along canals or drains. US$1.4
million would be provided for procurement of road graders.
Telecommunications (US$11.8 million)
3.16      An independent network consisting of three telephone exchanges
and a multi access rural system would be installed for the use of
SGB/MOAI:(I). The network would have a capacity of 1,500 lines. The
existing exchange at Barakat would be expanded to 1,000 lines and switching
centers installed at El Gorashi and Abu Usher. The network would be linked
to the public system at Wad Medani through Barakat, and would be integrated
with it as the SPTC masterplan is implemented. Funds (US$0.1 million)
would be provided under a PPF for the detailed survey necessary to
determine final design and sources of power for each subscriber. The
network would be owned, operated and maintained by SPTC and the cost of
services paid for by SGB and MOAI(I).
Gezira Light Railway (US$5.0 million)
3.17      Within the Scheme, GLR would remain the prime transporter of
cotton and inputs. The Project would provide for:(i) three motorized and
three hand pump trolleys, two elevating motor graders and hand tools for
corrective maintenance of tracks (US$0.7 million); (ii) replacement of 38
km of 12.4 kg/m track by 17.4 kg/m rails(US$0.9 million); (iii)
rehabilitation of the wagon fleet by replacing worn-out wagon running parts
and providing 20 new tanker wagons (US$2.2 million); (iv) re-engining of
10 Hunslet McLaren locomotives (US$0.6 million); and (v) technical
assistance for GLR to improve operations, track maintenance and workshop
capabilities (US$0.6 million).
Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage (US$21.3 million)
3.18      Three (Nos 4,5,6) of the nine labor intensive factories would be
fully mechanized (US$6.7 million). This would increase total ginning
capacity of these factories by 106 bales per day. These three and the
existing mechanized factories (Nos.10,12,14) would be fitted with



- 20 -
pre-cleaning and humidification equipment to raise lint grades (US$1.6
million).  Factory workshops and factory and yard infrastructure would be
improved (US$1.9 million).  Two new saw-gins would be installed to handle
the increased output of medium-staple cotton on the scheme as well as a
seed dressing plant (US$7.5 million).  Funds would be provided under a PPF
for preparing specifications and engineering requirements for ginneries
works to be implemented in Project year 1 (US$0.1 million).
3.19       Improved storage and handling facilities would also be provided
for cotton awaiting ginning. Hard surfaces would be constructed (US$1.3
million), equipment would be provided for mechanical handling (US$1.8
million) and provision made for incremental operating costs of US$0.3
million.
Schistosomiasis Program (US$6.0 million)
3.20       The Project would include measures to reduce the prevalence and
intensity of schistosomiasis infestation.  Better water management
practices would be introduced (paras. 3.02 and 3.03) and safe domestic
water supplies installed (para. 3.21).  Major health education measures
would be launched. BNHP (para. 2.08) would mount a program to kill snails
through the repeated application of chemicals (focal mollusciciding) at
sites in canals and Abu XX's where people frequently come in contact with
water.  Concurrently, the population would be given mass treatment
(praziquental) tablets with a clare rate of about 90%.  The program will
start in one area of the scheme initially, but would be extended during the
Project period to cover approximately 70% of the scheme. Mass chemotherapy
would be followed by active scresening annually and treatment of children
among whom prevalence is high. Passive case detection and treatment would
be extended to approximately 70% of the population on an ongoing basis.
These measures should reduce the prevalence and transmission of the
disease. The praziquental tableats would cost US$3.5 million, chemicals
US$1.9 million and vehicles US$0.2 million.  Incremental operating costs
would amount to US$0.4 million.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$15.3 million)
3.21      The Project would provide improvements and extensions to rural
water supply systems in the scheme area under the jurisdiction of the RWA
(para. 2.08). Sixty already drilled and capped wells would be provided
with pumps and storage tanks.  One hundred slow sand filter treatment
plants in the Managil Area would be rehabilitated through improvement in
plant operating controls, expansion of filtration capacity and construction
of larger sedimentation basins. One hundred and forty five borewells
equipped with handpumps would be provided to unregistered villages. Four
regional maintenance workshops wzould be constructed and equipped, and
lorries andsmall mobile maintenance units provided.Incremental maintenance
costs would amount to US$0.8 million. Project staff would ass:ist the
activities of BNHP in community participation and sanitation by
establishing four slab manufactuiring units at regional maintenance
workshops of the RWA. These would provide 50,000 latrine slabs for
families in the Project area.



- 21 -
Staff Housing and Utilities (US$9.3 million)
3.22      Funds would be provided for essential additional housing.
Priority would be given to field staff. A total of 24 T-I houses, 54 T-2
houses and 21 T-3 houses would be provided for SGB staff (US$3.4 million).
New MOAIVI) housing would comprise two T-I houses, three T-2 houses, 15 T-3
houses and 50 canal gatemen houses (US$1.4 million). These would
accommodate staff at the new MOAI(I) sub-division of Wadel Ber and some
water "gaffirs."   Other improvements would be made through provision of
electricity, water supply and sanitation to existing staff housing (US$4.3
million), while incremental maintenance costs would amount to US$0.2
million.
Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (US$4.4 million)
3.23      Under the Project, a Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
(RPMU) would be set up in MOAI (paras. 4.02 to 4.04) and a Project
Procurement Committee under MOFEP. The Project would fund the technical
assistance positions in the Unit and supporting staff and services.  The
office would be established on September 1, 1983 using a PPF (US$0.1
million).
SGB Management Information System (US$3.9 million)
3.24      The Project would provide data processing equipment and
facilities and vehicles (US$1.7 million) for SGB's Management Information
System to be strengthened under the Project.  The incremental operating
costs including technical assistance consisting of three specialists
totalling US$2.2 million would be provided. Technical assistance costs
would be initially met by a PPF advance (US$0.1 million) and assurances
were obtained from GOS at negotiations that an action program, acceptable
to the Akssociation, to strengthen existing systems would be finalized no
later thaan September 30, 1983.
Training and Other Technical Assistance (US$6.0 million)
3.25      The Project would strengthen training capability within SGB and
MOAI(I) and provide training for most levels of SGB and MOAI(I) employees
on the scheme. The Project would fund the services of an internationally
recruited training specialist to assist SGB management in implementing
training programs described in Annex 10. Most training of lower level
personnel, including the 2,000 workshop staff, 1,800 water gaffirs, 1,200
agricultural machinery operations, 700 clerks, and 750 stores and
accounting staff would be through in-house training programs. There would
be a special focus on supervisory and management training to take account
of the unusually high age profile of existing SGB senior staff. Where
training cannot be provided through suppliers contracts and Sudanese
training facilities are not available, training and study tours would be
provided abroad, especially in engineering (electrical, mechanical,
irrigation, telecommunications and railway), water management, agriculture



- 22 -
and accounting. Additional training facilities would be provided to
accommodate Project needs. Funds would be provided under a PPF for
engagement of a training speciLalist for three months to draw up a detailed
training program based on an analysis of job definitions and tasks
necessary to achieve Project objectives. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the detailecd program would be submitted to IDA for review
no later than September 30, 1983.
3.26      The Project would strengthen SGB's media production capability to
support information and training programs, and would help local training
institutions through their involvement in project training activities.  The
Project would also provide for carrying out of on-farm water management
tests and through a PPF fund l:he continuation of the on-farm water
management consultancy carried out at present at Rahad under the Rahad
Irrigation Project 3/ (US$0.2 million). The latter consultancy has
relevance for the Gezira because of the similar geo-climatic conditions and
tenancy arrangements in both areas.
Studies (US$2.4 million)
3.27      The aim of the studies component (Annex 9) would be to provide
the information base and condtuct the policy analysis necessary to consider
long term structural changes in the existing tenurial and production system
of the Gezira scheme. After a desk study on existing information (financed
by a PPF), an initial survey covering about 750 households aid an intensive
survey covering about 200 households would be carried out over a crop
year. This would provide the farm level data base necessary for additional
specialized studies on the tenancy system, credit, marketing, livestock and
agricultural machinery use.  Policy analysis wouLd be completed by project
mid-term review (para. 3.60), planned for end 1986. The project would also
provide funds for preparation of a modernization program for the Gezira
scheme. The studies would be coordinated by an :internationally recruited
agricultural economist in the RPMU and would be carried out in accordance
with terms of reference and contractual arrangements with individuals and
institutions acceptable to IDA.
C. Status of Engineering
3.28      Basic maps and photographs of the Project area are available at
the Sudan Survey Department.  The whole irrigated area is mapped at a scale
of 1:10,000 with 0.5 m contour interval and spot height accuracy of 0.1 m.
Detailed drawings of dams, headworks, pumping stations and all major
structures are also available. The needs and design requirements for
rehabilitation work for canal regulators and structures have been prepared
by the Consultants. Provision has been made under the Project to carry out
the final designs and tender documents for the proposed drainage
3/ Credit 364-SU and 364-2SU, closed on December 31, 1982.



- 23 -
improvement.  Consultants (Coode and Partners, UK) carried out a detailed
inspection of the Sennar dam before preparing the requirements for the
remedial works of the dam.
3.29      The specifications for office buildings and houses are based on
standard GOS designs. The proposals for renovation of existing ginneries
were prepared by the Consultants in adequate detail. Funds would be
provided under a PPF for preparing specifications and engineering
requirements for the new saw gins and works to be implemented in Project
year 1 (para. 3.18).
3.30       The design for the telecommunication and rural water supply
systems, prepared by consultants, were modified by IDA specialists during
appraisa:L. Further design of the telecommunication system would be
financed by a PPF.
3.31      The general specifications for agricultural equipment, machinery
and motor vehicles, prepared by consultants, were reviewed and modified
during appraisal. Detailed specifications are being prepared by SGB and
MOAI(I) and would be reviewed by the Project Procurement Committee (para.
4.04) before inviting bids. This task has been facilitated by the
experience gained during the recent ARP procurement operations.
D. Cost Estimates 4/
3.32      Total Project cost is estimated at US$263 million (LSd 399
million) with a foreign exchange component of US$150 million (LSd 227
million) or 57%. Taxes and duties amounting to US$37 million (LSd 56
million) or 14% are included. Project investment cost would be US$216
million (LSd 328 million) while incremental operating costs would amount to
US$47 million (LSd 71 million). Baseline Project costs (excluding physical
and price contingencies) are US$199 million (LSd 258 million). Estimated
costs are summarized in Table 1.
3.33      The cost estimates are based on June 1982 prices updated to end
March 1983 estimated baseline price levels and are derived from recent
quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingency rates on Project
components are 10% on all items, except for weed research (part of the
irrigation system component), earthworks for the drainage system, road
upgrading, and certain engineering work to be carried out for the GLR. The
physical contingency rate in these cases is estimated to be 15%.
4/ Current cost estimates reflect anticipated adjustments in the value of
the Sudanese pound against the United States dollar (Annex 3.1).



- 24 -
Table 1
SUDAN
BEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRI3ECT COST SUMMARY
(LSDI Million)                              'USS Million)
% of                                        ; of
Foreign  Z of Total                         Foreign  X of Tot2l
Local  F3areisn Total  Exchange Base Costs Local  Foreign Total  Exchange Base Cos5t
A, IfRRIGATION                                    13.9    14.2   2861      50.6        10.   10.7    10.9   21.6       50.6        10.9
P. DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                15.3    14.6   29.9      48.8        11.6   11.8    11.2   23.0       48.8        11.6
C. PU5HFING STATIONS                               2.6     5.9    8.5      69.1         3.3    2.0      4,5    6.5      69.1         3,3
D. SENNAR DAM                                      2.2     3.3    5.5      59.4         2.1    1,7      2.5    4.2      59,4         2,1
E, SEB AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY AND ERUIPHENT        2.9    13,1   16.0      82,0         6.2    2.2    10.1   12.3       82.0         6.2
F, EXTENSION,FARMER TRAININO? AND RESEARCH         2.7     4,5    7,2      62.B         2,6    2.1      3.5    5.6      62.8         2.),
Gl WOR'KSHOPS AND FUEL SUPPLY
SGE                                            3,9      8.7   12.6      69.2         4.9    3.0      6.7    9.7      69,2         4-9
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT MOAI                     3.6      5,0    8.7      58.0         3.4    2.8      3,9    6.7      58.0         3,4
Stb-Total WORKSHOPS AND FUEL SUPPLY                7.5    13.7   21.2      64,6         8.2    5.8    10.5   16.3       64.6         8t2
H. VEHICLES
SCB                                           10,0      7,5   17.6      42.8         6.8    7,7      5,F   13.5      42.8         6 i
IRRItATION DEPARTMENT MOAI                     4.1    3I1    7.2        43.4         2.8    3.1      2,4    5.5      43,4         2.5
Sub-Tclt-al VEHICLES                              14.1    10.6   24t7      43.0         9.6   10.8      8,F2   19.0     43.0         9,6
I. ROADS                                           72.     3.8    6.0      62.7         2.3    1.7      2,9    4.6      62,7         2.3
J. TELECOMMUNICATIONS                              4+1    11.2   15.3      73,3         5+9    3.1      8,6   11,8      73.3 I,9
K. 6E71RA LIGHT RAILWAY                            1.B     4,6    6.4      722.         2.5    1.4      3.6    5.0      72'2         2t5
GINNERIES. COTTON HANDLING, AND STORAGE        9.4    18.3   27.7       66.1        10.7    7,2    14,1   21.3       66.!        1i0.
N, SCHISTOSOMIASIS PROGRAM                         0.6     7.2    7.8      92.l         3.0    0,4      5,6    6.0      2,8         3,0
N  RFURAL WATER SUPPLY                            10.7     9,2   19.9      46.4         7.7    8"2      7.1   15.3      46,4         7,7
0l STAFF HOUSING
S-.l3                                          5.6      3.3    8.9      36.8         3,4    4.3      2,5    6.8      36.8         7 .4
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT MOAI                     2.0    !3    3.2        39.1         1.2    1+5      1.0    2.5      39.1        1.2
Sub-Total STAFF HOUSINC                            7.6     4,5   12.1      37.4         4,7    5.8      3.5    9.3      3774         4,7
P. REHABILITATION PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT         3.5      2.2    5.7      38,7 -22    2.7              1,7    4,4      38,7
0, 558 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM               1.8     3.3    5,0      65,1         1,9   Ili       25.   3.9       65.1        1t,
R. TRAINING                                        2,4     3i.    5.5      56.9         2.1    l8       2.4    4.2      56,9         2j?
S, OTHER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      0,4     2.0    2,4      82.i         0.9    0.3      1,5    18       B2.1         a,?
Ti STiUDIES                                        1.6     1.6    3.2      50,0        12    1.2       1.2    2,4      50.0         1.2
Total SASELINE COSTS                               107.2   151,0  258,2      58.5       '00.0   82.n   116.2  198.6 -  58.5         1t000
Rhesical Corntingercies                          11,,?    15,5   26.6     58.3        10.3    8.5    11,9   20.5       58.3        10.3
P ie- Cnntinrrcie5                              54.1    60,0  114.1       52.6        44.2   21.9    21,7   43.6       49.8        32,'
T-tai PF'2jEI.T COSTS                              172.4   226,6  398.9      56.8       154,5  112,9   149,8  262i7       57,       132'3
- -- --- -- - - -- -- - - -- -- - --- - -- -- -- ---- - -- - --- - - - --- - --- - -- ---- -- -- - --- -- -- -- - ---==  _=__= = = =-==========-=== ==-=__= =_= -====== -==_===== -=====_ -



- 25 -
3.34      Price contingencies total 20% of base costs plus physical
contingencies in US dollars and have been estimated as summarized in Annex
3.1.
3.35      A PPF of US$0.6 million has been proposed to cover the costs of:
(i) preparing the detailed survey for the telecommunications component
(para. 3.16); (ii) preparing specifications and engineering for
requirements for ginnery work to be executed in Project year 1 (para.
3.18); (iii) establishment of RPMU office (para. 3.23); (iv) technical
assistance needs for strengthening management information systems
(para.3.24); (v) technical assistance for preparation of a detailed
training program (para. 3.25); (vi) continuation of studies of on-farm
water management in the Rahad project (para. 3.26); and (vii) appointment
of an internationally recruited agricultural economist (para. 3.27).
E. Financing Plan
3.36      Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:
Table 2
Gezira: Financing Plan a/
% of     x of
Local        Foreign                Total    Net
Currency    Exchange    Total       Project   Project
Costs        Costs                  Costs    Costs
----   US$ million   -------
1.  IDAi Credit           3.6          76.4       80.0        30         34
2.  Other Co-
Financiers
(a) Arab Fundb/                    50.0        50.0        19         22
(b) Government of
Italy           -            7.0         7.0         3         4
(c) Others                         16.4        16.4         7          8
3. Government of
Sudan               72.4            -         72.4        27         32
Net Project Cost         76.0         149.8      225.8         86       100
Taxes & Duties           36.9            -         36.9       14
Total Project Cost    112.9           149.8       262.7      100
a/ Amounts include contingencies.
b/ For Social and Economic Development, Kuwait.



- 26 -
3.37      The IDA Credit would finance, jointly with GOS, the following
components: SGB Agricultural Machinery and Equipment, Extension, Farmer
Training and Research, Workshops for SGB and MOAI(I), part of the vehicles
for SGB and MOAI(I), the Gezira Light Railway, the Schistosomiasis Program,
Rural Water Supply, Staff Housing for SGB and MOAI(I), the RPMU, the SGB's
Management Information System, Training, Other Technical Assistance and
Studies. The other components would be financed by cofinanciers, jointly
with GOS, as follows: the Government of Italy would finance certain
machinery and equipment for Canal Maintenance (part of Irrigation
component), mobile drainage pumps for the Drainage System and the civil
works and machinery and equipment for the Mezagila. pump station (part of
Pumping Station component); the Arab Fund would finance the remainder of
the Irrigation, Drainage System and Pumping Staticns components, as well as
the Sennar Dam, Roads and Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage
components; and cofinancing for the telecommunications component and the
balance of vehicles would be secured from other scurces..
3.38      Project financing by the financing agencies for the different
categories of goods or services is set out in the followiing Table.
Table 3
Gezira: Financing for Different: Categories of Works, Goods and Services a/
US$ million
Other Co-
GOS     IDA           Financiers            Total
Arab  Govt. of
Fund    Italy    Other
Civil Works                  38.0    11.2    16.6       0.5                66.3
Machinery and Equipment    32.2    32.9    22.2         6.5        --      93.8
Vehicles                      6.4      2.0     0.1      -          5.6    14.1
New Ginneries                 3.5      -       5.4      -          --      8.9
Telecommunications System   2.3        -       -        -         10.3    12.6
Technical Assistance          0.4    10.5      1.2      -          --     12.1
Studies                       -        2.8     -        -          --       2.8
Training                      2.7      1.8     0.1      -          --       4.6
Incremental Operating Costs
Materials                    0.5      9.0     0.2      -          --       9.7
Farm Inputs                  0.1      0.3     -        -          -        0.4
Spares                       3.6      6.0     0.2      -          -       9.8
Other Vehicle Operating
Costs                      7.3     1.0      -        -          -       8.3
Other Operating Costs        6.9      1.9     3.1      -          0.5    12.4
Salaries and Wages           5.4     -        0.9      -          -       6.3
PPF Refund                   -        0.6     -        -          -       0.6
TOTAL                     109.3    80.0    50.0       7.0       16.4   262.7
a/ Amounts include contingencies.



- 27 -
3.39       The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOS.
US$24.0 million of the IDA Credit would be passed on as budgetary
transfers/grants to the MOAI(I) for workshops and housing, SGB (as equity
contribution) and ARC for research activities, MOH for the schistosomiasis
program and RWC for the rural water supply component. A further US$6.2
million would be kept by Government for the RPMU and for studies. GOS,
which would bear the foreign exchange risk, would onlend the balance of
US$49.8 million of the IDA Credit to SGB under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SGB would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness. It is GOS policy to move gradually
towards positive real interest rates. The existing lending rate in Sudan
is 9% for non-commercial enterprises and 12% for commercial entities.
Onlending would be for 20 years at 14% interest. The proposed rate
reflects some movement towards the goal of positive real interest rates and
has to be viewed against the current inflation rate of 25%, which is
however likely to come down to about 15% in 1987/88. GOS share of
expenditures on components financed by IDA (para. 3.37) would be passed on
to Project entities on the same basis as IDA's contribution.
3.40       Funds provided by cofinanciers for various Project components
(para. 3.37) would be passed on to Project entities on terms and conditions
satisfactory to such cofinanciers, as would the GOS share of expenditure on
such components.  Evidence satisfactory to IDA on the availability of funds
of not J.ess than US$50 million from such cofinanciers would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.   Assurances were obtained from GOS during
negotiations that the balance of US$23.4 million would be secured from
cofinanciers no later than December 31, 1983.
F. Procurement 5/
3.41       Items to be financed by other agencies are set out in para. 3.37;
procuretaent procedures of the concerned agency would apply to these items.
Items to be financed under the IDA Credit would be procured as follows, and
assurances to this effect were obtained from GOS during negotiations.
3.42       Goods.  Vehicles, machinery, equipment and spares totalling
US$52.3 million would be grouped into appropriate bidding packages of
US$100,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines
(issued July 1980) for works and goods. Qualifying domestic manufacturers
would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Annual requirements of spare parts for vehicles,
machinery and equipment procured under the Project and totalling US$9.6
million would be procured directly from the manufacturer of the equipment
or by quotations if there is more than one established supplier.
5/ All amounts in this Section include contingencies.



- 28 -
Miscellaneous items in packages of less than US$100,000 but totalling no
more than US$1 million would be procured under local competitive procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. For contracts under US$20,000, but totalling
no more than US$100,000, local shopping or purchasing off-the-shelf after
obtaining at least three quotations would be used. In total, ICB would
account for about 70% by value of the purchases of goods.  Purchases of
materials, consisting of medicines and molluscicides (US$9.0 million) would
be by negotiated contract, or by quotation if there is more than one
established supplier, while farm inputs (US$0.2 million) for the research
component would be procured in accordance with the normal existing
procedures of the Government acceptable to IDA.
3.43      Works.  Civil works construction at SGO, MOAI(I) and ARC
Headquarters and main areas as well as installed track for the GLR
totalling US$3.7 million would be procured by ICB in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines as above. Civil works would qualify for 7 1/2% domestic
preference under ICB procurement. Civil works for SGB and MOAI(I) housing
(US$8.5 million) which would be dispersed and in remote areas would be by
LCB procedures (which would allow foreign firms to participate). The civil
works for rural water supply (US$17.1 million) which, because of the small
unit cost, the dispersed and remote location of the sites and the existence
of a government unit already engaged in this work, would be by force
account.  In total about 12% by value of the civil works would be under
IGB, while a further 30% would be under LCB.
3.44      Contract Review.  A1L bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$0.5 million equivalent would be made subject to
prior IDA review of procuremenit documentation. This would result in a
coverage of about 50% of the total estimated value of the contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after
contract award.
3.45      Consultants.  The Consultants listed in Annex 8 (with estimated
manmonth rates) would be hired in accordance with the Bank guidelines
(issued August 1981) on the use of consultants. They would have terms of
reference, qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained from GOS
during negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.46      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over six years
(Annex 4.1) on the basis of 100% of foreign expenditures, or its equivalent
percentage of total cost if locally produced or expended, for all
categories of expenditure except for technical assistance and studies which
would be financed 100%. These details are outlined in Annex 4.2. The
disbursement profiles for Bank--wide irrigation and drai'-,6: s;:bfector
projects and for Eastern Africa crop processing and grain storage subsect-
projects are eight and nine years respectively while for all Sudanese



- 29 -
projects, the profile shows that full disbursement has taken an average of
nine years with about 82% being disbursed over the first six years.  The
shorter disbursement period of six years assumed for the proposed Project
is justified by the relatively strong management of the two major
implementing agencies, the preparatory steps already completed in respect
of major procurement items and the further steps being financed prior to
Project start under a PPF (para. 3.35).
H. Information Systems, Accounts and Audit
3.47      The financial and management accounting regulations of the Board
are an adequate basis for the operation of the accounting systems of SGB.
The financial accounting system as it works in practice follows the
established regulations closely. However, accounting information is not
issued in a timely fashion, because of a shortage of trained and qualified
staff, inadequate supervision, out-of-date manuals and poor communications
between the Blocks, Groups and Headquarters. Project activities would aim
to remedy the first three problems by providing for the establishment of a
training center with two trainers in bookkeeping, accounting and auditing
and supply/inventory management; a strengthened management information
systent (including upgrading of existing data processing equipment); and
advisors in finance and supply and inventory management who would work
under the Finance Division manager and direct their attention to the more
immediate problems of that Division. Communications could be expected to
improve when the telecommunications network is established (para 3.16)
3.48      Budgetary control exists within SGB but consists only of
monitoring actual major departmental expenses with budget at the point of
postirng into the ledger. Timely performance reports are not prepared. A
detailed and comprehensive management information system comparing physical
and financial goals to results does not exist and technical assistance
would be provided to set up such a system (para. 3.24).
3.49      Audited annual financial statements have been issued up to June
30, 19I80 only. The audit for the statement for the year to June 30, 1981
is expected to be completed in June 1983. Thereafter, unaudited financial
stateraents would be provided to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year and an independent auditor's opinion and report
satisfactory to the Association on such statements would be provided within
nine months of the close of the fiscal year.  Assurances were obtained from
GOS that SGB would maintain its accounting system in accordance with sound
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to
IDA.
3.50      The ARC, BNHP, RWA, and MOAI(I) all at Wad Medani, and SPTC at
Khartoum, would maintain separate Project-related accounts. Experience
with other projects, namely the Rahad Irrigation and the Western Sudan
Agricultural Research Projects, as well as review during appraisal of the



- 30 -
different project entities' accounting systems and accounting staff
capabilities, shows that thase organizations are able to maintain separate
records of their organization's share of project costs. Thus assurances
were obtained at negotiations that these Project entities would establish
and maintain separate accounts to be operational from the beginning of
implementation and that such accounts would be maintained in accordance
with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA to enabLe these organizations to provide annual
financial statements to ref:Lect the financial performance and position of
the Project components.  Unaudited financial statements would be provided
to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year, and an
independent auditor's opinions and reports satisfactory to IDA on such
statements would be presented within nine months of the close of the fiscal
year.
3.51      The supporting documents for Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
would not be submitted for review but retained by MOAI(I) and SGB for
inspection by IDA supervision missions. These documents would be audited
separately by auditors acceptable to IDA and the audit report submitted to
IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. An assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations. The staff and institutional
capabilities of Project entities are adequate for the preparation of such
SOEs.
3.52      The Auditor General is, by law, the auditor of project entities
and has been accepted by IDA in other recent Credits6/ as an independent
auditor.  The quality of the Auditor General's staff is adequate to carry
out the annual audits of SGB.  However, due to the increasing workload
placed on his staff, it is unlikely that audits could be carried out on a
timely basis in the future.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
if the Auditor General reports that audit cannot be completed within three!
months of receiving the accounts, then other independent auditors
acceptable to IDA would be engaged forthwith to carry out the audit work
required.
I. Water Demand and Availability
Water Requirements
3.53      The total demand at Sennar for the Project and other greenbelt
and domestic requirements would be 6.24 milliard/year. The monthly water
requirements (Annex 5.4) at the Sennar dam to meet the irrigation and other
demands in Project year 5 have been estimated. The highest monthly
6/ Includes New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1022-SU), Blue
Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1118-SU) and White Nile Pump
Schemes Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1119-SU).



- 31 -
(October) demand on main canal head would be 937 million m3 (30.2 million
m3/day) and within the capacity of main canals. The annually irrigated
crop area would be limited to 1.55 million fd by the existing capacity
(31.05 million m3/day) of the main canals.
Source of Water Supply
3.54      Irrigation water for the scheme is derived from the Blue Nile
which has a mean annual flow of 50 milliard m3 of which 80% flows in the
months of July to October. The discharges vary from 6000 m3/sec in flood
to as little as 130m3/sec in the dry season. The heavy silt load (mean
annual concentration 5000 mg./l) carried by the river is the source of
reservoir and canal sedimentation. The quality of the Blue Nile Water,
CISI (USDA classification) for most of the year is excellent for
irrigation. The detailed inspection of the Roseires Dam (para. 2.19) was
completed in 1982. About US$2.5 million would be needed to rectify minor
faults detected at the dam. Assurances were obtained from GOS during
negotiations that these funds would be made available to MOAI(I)
independently of the proposed Project and that the remedial works would be
carried out before June 30, 1985 according to an action program,
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were also obtained that the Roseires Dam
will he inspected and maintained in accordance with an action plan prepared
no later than December 31, 1983 and acceptable to IDA.
Water Availability
3.55      The total quantity of water Sudan may divert from the Nile
System, according to the Nile Water Agreement of 1959 between Egypt and
Sudan, is equivalent to 20.55 milliard m3/year at Sennar. The current
water requirement in Sudan is estimated at 17.7 milliard m3/year including
the projected demand. The reservoir operation studies, carried out to
assess the storage needs in the base flow period taking into account the
progressive siltation in the Roseires reservoir, indicate that the existing
storage capacity would suffice until 1990. The options to meet the
situation after 1990 are: (i) heightening of the Roseires dam in stages or
in fu:Ll (the dam has been designed and constructed to meet this situation);
or (ii) if heightening of the dam is delayed, reduction of the wheat area
at the rate of 550 fd for loss of each milliard live storage capacity of
the Project.
3.56      Heightening of the Roseires dam would be ultimately needed to
ensure continued irrigation in the Blue Nile region. However, there are
competing claims within the irrigated sub-sector for the medium term
investment funds available including Upper Atbara Project and the
modernization of the Pump Schemes. A study to assist in determining such
investment priorities is therefore important and funds for this purpose
have been provided under Technical Assistance II Project (IDA Cr.
1153-SU). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
would furnish, not later than December 31, 1983, a ten year program for
such investments.



- 32 -
J. Environmental Impact
Water Management
3.57       Irrigation in the Gezira Scheme has been responsible for the high
incidence of schistosomiasis in the area and has contributed to the
prevalence of malaria (para. 2.36). The Project activities would aim to
improve water distribution, drainage and canal maintenance and restore
thorough drying out of minor canals.  These measures should reduce breeding
grounds for these diseases. The Project would extend safe water supply to
villages presently not covered, further reducing the risk of
schistosomiasis. The disea.se would also be controlled by mass treatment and
follow-up programs, and by use of focal molluscicides in canals.
Pesticides
3.58      Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticicle has been
extensively practised in Sudan for the past '30 years. Al1 sprays currently
used are tested by residue analysis for compliance with prescribed
specifications and registered with the Pesticide Committee of the MOAI.
Application is by aerial spraying.  Techniques that minimize drift would be
studied on the pilot schemes (Annex 6) so that risk of di'rect contamination
of the human population can be reduced further.  Although extensive use of
chemicals would continue to pose long term risks, it would not be
commercially feasible to produce cotton without chemical pest control.
Ginneries
3.59      Byssimosis (chronic cough) is present among workers in the cotton
ginneries. It is due to exposure to cotton dust from inadequate protective
measures and poor hygiene within the factories.  The proposed mechanization
program introduces equipment that should reduce its incidence.
K. Mid-Term Review
3.60      Assurances were obtained from GOS during negotiations that a
Project mid-term review will be conducted jointly by GOS and IDA no later
than December 31, 1986.  I'he primary aim wilL be to synthesize the
knowledge gained through the studies to serve as a basis for preparation of
the modernization program- The review will also cover performance under
the proposed Project, including: (i) access of SGB and other Project
entities to foreign exchange and local currency; (ii) replacement of assets
and provision of spare parts; (iii) fuel availability and distribution;
(iv) public and private sector agricultural machinery operations; (v)
adequacy of cotton and wheat prices; (vi) the responses of tenants to
Project activities; (vii) debt recovery; (vi:Li) pilot schLeme and on farm
trials; (ix) research conducted by ARC; (x) l:he efficiency of pest control
packages; (xi) evaluation of alternative weed control systems, including



- 33 -
mechanical weed control trials; (xii) progress on the introduction of the T
and V extension system; (xiii) the impact of the Project management
information system; (xiv) the Project manpower situation; and (xv)
evaluation of the effectiveness of the interventions for schistosomiasis
control. Based on such a review, and other supporting work, issues such as
selection of technology for weed clearance, selection of appropriate
ploughing equipment, delineation of the respective roles of the private and
public sectors in farm machinery operation and most importantly, the scope
of change in the tenurial system in the scheme area would be addressed.
Project components would be modified where required and reallocation of
funds worked out. Preparation of an investment program for the scheme for
the period 1988-93 would also be taken in hand with technical assistance
and consultancies for this purpose financed under the proposed Project.
CHAPTER IV
IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
4.01      Six government organizations would be involved in implementing
the proposed Project: the Sudan Gezira Board, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation, the Agricultural Research Corporation, the Rural Water
Administration under the Central Regional Government, the Blue Nile Health
Project under the Ministry of Health, and the Sudan Public
Telecommunications Corporation.
B. Project Execution
Rehabil:Ltation Project Management Unit (RPMU)
4.02       In order to ensure smooth implementation of the Project, it would
be necessary to establish an effective unit in the MOAI, which
would deal with external donors and government agencies, handle
procurement, monitor project progress, provide technical support to the
implementing entities, administer studies and supervise preparation of the
modernization program. This unit would be modelled on that established
for the Rahad Irrigation Project (Cr. 364-SU) where it proved fairly
successful. The acknowledged defects of the arrangements at Rahad, in
particular lack of technical and secretarial support staff, have been
addressed and corrected in the proposed unit.
4.03      The Director of the unit would report directly to the Minister.
He would have the necessary status to coordinate the work of the
implementing agencies and would extend technical support to them. He would



- 34 -
be the convener of a Project Ilanagement Committee (PMC), headed by the
Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation and comprising the heads of the
implementing agencies, the Under Secretaries' of the Ministry of Health,
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Ministry of Transport and
Communications and Regional Minister of Housing, Construction and Public
Utilities, Central Region (whc is in charge of RW4A). The PMC would meet
quarterly and would inter alia review and approve Annual Work Programs
(AWPs), monitor progress of the Project and reso:lve interagency conflicts.
The Director, RPMU, would be assisted by a localLy recruited agricultural
specialist, and an internationally recruited agricultural economist. The
agricultural specialist would assist the Director in supervising
implementation and would provide technical support on agricultural matters
to the Project entities. The agricultural economlist would assist the
Director in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, training and technical
assistance, and would administer and be responsible for quality control of
the studies component.
4.04      Procurement for the Project would be handled by a Project
Procurement Committee (PPC) comnprising technical specialists from the
implementing entities. This committee would be mtodelled after a similar
committee established under the ARP Credit which proved highly
successful. The committee wou:Ld be the final authority in Government on
Project procurement decisions and would be headed by an official of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The implementing iagencies would
be responsible for drawing up initial technical specifications for all
ICB's; further processing of all ICB's would be undertaken by the PPC. The
PPC would also extend technical assistance and enforce quality control on
other forms of procurement which would be undertaken by the Project
entities themselves. An internationally recruite,d procurement adviser
would assist the PPC in its tasks. Government has given an assurance that
RPMU, PMC and PPC would be established no later than September 30, 1983;
the appointment of the Chairman, PPC and the Director, RPMU would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
C. Annual Work Programs
4.05      The Annual Work Program (AWP), which would cover all Project
components, would be a key project implementation mechanism and is
described in Annex 7. It would include (i) a review of progress in the
current year, (ii) a detailed description of the ivork to be performed in
the forthcoming year, including objectives, deployment of equipment and
staff, (iii) requirements of additional staff, eqtipment and fuel, (iv) a
budget, and (v) a financing plan including foreign and local currency needs
and subventions required from G0S.  The AWPs would enable GOS to review
progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs and provide the necessary
budgetary and other support needed for the Project. The AWP mechanism has
been successfully applied in ongoing IDA irrigation projects.
4.06      For the first year of implementation, an AWP would ba prepared
by August 31, 1983, and submitted to IDA by September 30, 1983.  AWPs for



- 35 -
1984/85 onwards would be submitted to Government by April 1 and to IDA by
May 1 each year for acceptance, to cover the ensuing financial year
beginning July 1.  Assurances were obtained from GOS during negotiations of
acceptance of these arrangements.
Financial Flows to Project Entities
4.07      SGB.  Secure access to adequate flows of foreign and local
currency is critical for Project success. Foreign exchange needs for
capital and recurring expenditures would be determined through AWPs.
Assurances were obtained from GOS at negotiations that timely allocation of
fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and other necessary recurrent inputs in
sufficient quantity would be made to project implementing agencies and that
quarterly reports on such allocations would be made available to IDA in a
format acceptable to it. It was also agreed at negotiations that GOS would
prepare and submit to IDA no later than September 30, 1984 an action
program emanating from studies conducted by it on ways and means required
to ensure adequate and timely financing of foreign exchange recurrent costs
of the agricultural activities included in the Project.
4.08      Local currency needs would also be determined through AWPs.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that transfers to a local
currency account maintained by SGB in the Bank of Sudan would be made in
four quarterly installments in accordance with the AWP. Thus SGB would
have direct access to local currency for investment. The line of credit
already available from the Bank of Sudan would be extended to cover working
capital needs of the Project and an assurance to this effect was also
obtained during negotiations.
4.09      MOAI(I).  During Project implementation, operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation and drainage system would be the
responsibility of MOAI(I) and financed by GOS independently of the
Project. MOAI(I) has existing arrangements with EMC (para. 3.03) for
performing the silt clearance on canals and drains. EMC has plant and
support facilities at site to perform annually seven million cubic meters
of maintenance earth work, adequate for the Project needs. However,
adequate and timely funds, fuel and foreign exchange must be provided to
MOAI(I) by the Government in order to maintain the silt and weed clearance
program. MOAI(I) would submit: (i) the annual irrigation and drainage
maintenance program; (ii) the contracted arrangements and rates negotiated
with EMC for performing the silt clearance; and (iii) annual requirements
of local currency and foreign exchange for ensuring satisfactory operation
and maintenance to IDA for review and approval in the AWPs. Assurances
were obtained from GOS at negotiations that financial transfers would be
made in four quarterly installments to an account opened in the name of
MOAI(I) Gezira in amounts agreed to in the AWP.
Access to Fuel
4.10      Fuel scarcity has seriously impaired the efficiency of scheme
operations in the past. Assurances were obtained from Government during



- 36 -
negotiations that necessary and timely allocations of fuel would be made.
Fuel supply requirements wouldi be estimated and monitored through the AWPs.
D. Sudan Gezira Board
4.11      The present centralLzed management structure of SGB would be
retained and the bulk of Project activities would be handled by existing
SGB staff (Chart III).  They would continue to be responsible for
determination of rotations and delivery of services to tenants, on-farm
water management, machinery maintenance, operation of the GLR and the
ginneries, cotton delivery to the CPC and cost and debt recovery.
4.12      In order to supervise the Project efficiently, SGB has created
the post of Deputy Managing Director, who would be responsible for all
Project operations within SGB. He would be assisted by a Research and
Extension Coordinator whose responsibilities would include coordination
between ARC and SGB, and introduction of extension techniques on the scheme
with Project support. An internationally recruited training specialist
would assist in implementing training programs (Annex 10). I)ay-to-day
operations would be supported by improvements in the management information
systems (para 3.24). The establishment of a telecommunications network
(para 3.16) should also strengthen SGB operations, while mobility of staff
would be improved through provision of motor vehicles (para. 3.14).
Water Management
4.13      There is a need to establish a Water Management Advisory Unit
under the Agricultural Department with a field irrigation engineer at each
group level. This Unit would be responsible for: (i) training and
organizing the farmers in irrigation management and, where extension pilot
works are established, to act as subject matter specialists; (ii) technical
inputs on crop irrigation planning and preparation of water indents, and
monitoring the delivery of water to "numbers"; (iii) ensuring group action
by farmers in proper water management and upkeep of field channels
according to prescribed rules; and (iv) engineering surveys and designs for
maintenance of Abu XX, land levelling and field drainage as required.
Graduates from the faculty of Agriculture of the University of Khartoum,
and experienced SGB field inspectors would be available to fill the posts.
Technical assistance (24 man-months of consultancy service) and overseas
training (42 man-months) to heLp establish the Unit would be made
available. Assurances were obltained during negotiations that the Unit
would be established no later ithan December 31, 1983.
Legal Status of SGB
4.14      The Gezira Scheme Act: of 1960 would be revised to reflect certain
alterations in the operating structure and procedures adopted by SGB in
recent years. The proposed revisions include: (i) altering the
composition of the Board of SGBE and reformulating its responsibilities and



- 37 -
functions; (ii) definition of the responsibilities and functions of the
Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director of SGB; (iii) inclusion of
a provision in the Act, making it obligatory for SGB to recover fully all
its costs from tenants (departure from this principle would only be
possible after explicit approval by the Government); (iv) provision of an
adequate capital structure for SGB; (v) description of production
relations between SGB and tenants; and (vi) details of financial
relationship between GOS and SGB. The enactment into law of the necessary
revisions would be a condition for Credit effectiveness.
E. Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Irrigation)
4.15      The overall responsibility for implementing the irrigation and
drainage components of the Project would rest with the Director-General of
Irrigation Affairs. In this, he would be assisted by Directorates of
Projects, Electrical/Mechanical works, Irrigation Affairs and Dams.
Horizontal coordination amongst these agencies is well established and is
satisfactory for Project implementation. The design and construction
supervision of Project works would be carried out by the Directorate of
Projects. While the present structure of MOAI(I) (Chart IV) would be
retained, a new road construction and maintenance unit would be established
for roads of significance to Project activities. This unit, under an
experienced Engineer assisted by four technical officers, would be
responsible to the Director, Irrigation Affairs.
Operation of Minor Canals
4.16      Water is conveyed to and delivered into minor canals by MOAI(I)
according to the indents prepared by SGB field agricultural staff. The
involvement of SGB in the operation of the irrigation system commences at
the upstream end of minor canals. The water control on minor canals and
water distribution to "numbers" is performed by the Agricultural Department
of SGB through "gaffirs", though MOAI(I) is responsible for the maintenance
of minor canals. Operation of minor canals is poorly supervised by SGB,
FOPs are not controlled, waste of water occurs in many areas at the cost of
water slaortage in other areas, and misoperation of minor canals causes
serious maintenance problems. Government has agreed to transfer operation
responsibilities to the MOAI(I), which has the capacity to enforce the
necessary water control and regulation mechanisms.
4.17      The operation of minor canals would be transferred from SGB to
MOAI(I) in a phased manner during the first four years of the Project.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The transfer
of responsibility for the first sub-division to MOAI(I) would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 38 -
F. Agricultural Research Corporation
4.18      ARC would be responsible for identifying and resolving major
problems, SGB for applying recommended solutions to tenants' fields. A
joint research and production committee has been established.  This
committee would be responsible for designing production targets, selecting
areas to be brought under upgraded technologies and defining associated
extension and field activities. ARC would be involved in evaluating and
monitoring production practices carried out by SGB, tenants and the private
sector. Research objectives are summarized in Annex 6.
G. Illue Nile Health Project
4.19      BNHP, which is part of MOH, would be the implementing agency for
the chemotherapy and focal molluscicide campaigns.  Drugs, c:hemicals and
related supplies would be procured through WHO. The use of drugs and
chemicals would be monitored through the AWPs and at the micd-term review
(para. 3.60). BNHP would provide technical ass:Lstance to RWA, to implement
the rural water supply and sanitation component (para. 3.21).
H. Rural Water Administration
4.20      The Gezira Province Rural Water Admini.stration would execute the
water supply and sanitation component, under the regional water directorate
within the Regional Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public
Utilities. Existing staff would be sufficient fior the proposed borewell
program.  Some additional technical staff required to supervise
rehabilitation of the filter systems and build up filter maintenance teams
is provided for under the Project.
I. Sudan Public Telecommunications Corporation
4.21      The telecommunications system under the Project would be provided
specifically for the Gezira scheme.  It would be owned and operated by SPTC
for SGB and MOAI(I). Design criteria, specification and tender documents
would also be prepared by SPTC. Training would be provided through the
suppliers' contract. Assurances were obtained from GOS during negotiations
that it would cause SPTC to enter into an agreement, no later than
June 30, 1984, with SGB and MOAI(I) on the tariff, which should be
acceptable to IDA and applicable for the period up to June 30, 1988.
J. Private Sector Machinery Operations
4.22      SGB would, during the Project period, provide machinery services
for most cotton operations. Most non-cotton operations, as in the past,



- 39 -
would be undertaken by the private sector.  In order to secure private
sector services, machinery hire rates would have to cover fully fuel and
operator costs, maintenance, interest, depreciation and a margin of
profit. Assurances were obtained from GOS during negotiations that the
rates for SGB be reviewed annually on the above basis since private sector
rates are influenced by the rates fixed by SGB.
4.23      It is estimated that augmentation of the private sector fleet by
300 tractors with required implements should be adequate to cater to demand
for such services during the Project period. Government has obtained
assistance from the French government for financing 225 tractors for sale
to tenants in Gezira through the auspices of ABS. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GOS would provide funds (either through bilateral
assistance or from its own resources) to finance purchase by tenants
through ABS of an additional 75 tractors and associated implements not
later than June 30, 1984. The level of services provided by the private
sector would be carefully monitored through the AWPs and would be reviewed
during the Project mid-term review.
K. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.24      The Director RPMU, assisted by the internationally recruited
agricultural economist in the RPMU (para. 4.04) would have overall
responsibility for monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Monitoring and
evaluation would be carried out principally through the AWP mechanism
(para. 4.05) and the proposed mid-term review (para. 3.60). In addition,
baseline and other studies supported by the Project (para. 3.27) would be
used to monitor and evaluate areas such as tenants' behavioral responses
and the efficiency of the T and V extension system. The strengthening of
management information systems (paras. 3.24, 3.47 and 3.48) would augment
SGB capability to monitor operations on a day-to-day basis and evaluate
results, with particular emphasis on concerns such as cost-effectiveness of
operations. The RPMU would furnish IDA with monthly telex progress
reports, in a format satisfactory to IDA. It would also prepare the
Project Completion Report no later than six months after the completion of
the Projject. Government assurances on these reporting procedures were
obtained during negotiations.
CHAPTER V
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Agricultural Production
5.01      Table 4 summarizes the expected cropped area, yields and
additional production expected under the Project.



- 40 -
TABLE 4
Gezira: Area, Yield and Production
Present   Future without Project  Future with Project
Year 0              Year 6                Year 6
LS Cotton
Area ('000 fd)             320                310                    310
Yield (tons/fd)            0.5                0.54                   0.7
Prod. ('000 tons)          160                167                    217
MS Cotton
Area ('000 fd)             120                150                    150
Yield (tons/fd)            0.57               0.61                   0.83
Prod. ('000 tons)           69                 92                    124
Groundnuts
Area ('000 fd)             200                220                    240
Yield (tons/fd)            0.65               0.7                    0.95
Prod. ('000 tons)          130                154                    228
Sorghum
Area ('000 fd)             300                300                    300
Yield (tons/fd)            0.45               0.5                    0.69
Prod. ('000 tons)          135                150                    207
Wheat
Area ('000 fd)             275                400                    400
Yield (tons/fd)            0.36               0.39                   0.65
Prod. ('000 tons)           99                156                    260
Vegetable Area ('000 fd)  40                   40                     50
Fodder Area ('000 fd)       40                 50                    100
TOTAL AREA ('000 fd) 1,470               1,470                  1,550
5.02      The total area cultivated would rise mnarginally from 1.47 million
fd to 1.55 million fd. There would be small increases in area under
cotton, with fodder being introduced on an additional 60,000 fd. The area
under groundnuts would rise b>y 40,000 fd while that under sorghum would
remain unchanged.    The relative area to be planted under ELS and MS
cotton would be decided while finalizing the AWP each year, having regard
to the international price situation and other relevant considerations
(Chart V).
5.03      Yield increases are expected from improved water delivery, better
drainage, better land preparation and land leve:Ling, timely seed-bed
preparation and sowing, proper weeding and crop husbandry, aLnd gradual



- 41 -
introduction of certified seeds of high yielding varieties for all crops,
especially groundnuts and sorghum. They would also be due to larger doses
of fertilizer and pesticides which at present are used only for cotton and
wheat (Table 5).  The proposed program of extension and applied research
would allow for improvement and development of production technology of the
main four crops.  The capabilities of SGB field personnel would be
improved, and the links between ARC, SGB, MOAT(I) and farmers would be
enhanced. Improvements of incentives for tenants would play a central role
in raising yields.
Table 5
Gezira: Input Application Rates with and without the Project
Cotton        Sorghum       Groundnuts       Wheat
with without with without with without with without
Seed (kgs/fd)         10      10       4      4      50      20     50      50
Urea (kgs/fd)        140    120       40     --      --     --      80      80
TSP (kgs/fd)          --      --      --     --      40      --     40      --
Pesticide(a)gms/fd.  60       50       8      2    100      40    100    100
Herbicide(b)            1      1       1     __       1       1      1      __
Spraying(b)            8       7       1     --      __     __       1       1
(a) Pesticide is "Abavit" for cotton, "Dieldrex" for groundnut and wheat
and "Fernazan" for sorghum.
(b) Number of times applied.
5.04      Production of seed cotton would increase from a projected 259,000
tons in Year 6 without the Project, to an expected 341,000 tons with the
Project. Wheat production would be expected to increase from 156,000 tons
to 260,000 tons, and should meet about 30% of projected consumption needs
by 1988, compared with 20% in 1981. Groundnut and fodder yields would be
expected to increase by about 40%.
5.05      Yield estimates are based on (i) analysis of historical data;
(ii) interpretation of cross-sectional data on yield variations between and
within the various blocks in a particular year; (iii) assessment of the
likely impact of Project actions on yields; and (iv) recognition of
macro-economic, management and institutional constraints that affect the
scheme.
B. Marketing and Pricing
Marketing
5.06      SGB's responsibilities are limited to the production, handling,
ginning, and transportation to Port Sudan of cotton lint bound for export.
All marketing and export activities are carried out by the CPC. Four



- 42-
separate companies, all under the control of CPC, export lint.  Cotton lint
is sold on a tender basis or at fixed prices. Lint for the local textile
industry is sold at the ginnery gate. In the ?ast, CPC has taken more than
a year to pay SGB after receiving the lint, anl this system has been a
disincentive for the cotton producers. Since the 1980/81 season, CPC has
been buying all the seed cotton at prices fixecd at the gin gate for cotton
seed and at Port Sudan for lint, allowing for t;he cost of ginning and
transportation to Port Sudan. All cotton seed is presently sold to the
local oil industry or is used to produce soap. Cotton seed and oil exports
are prohibited.
5.07      Since the 1980/81 season, private merchants are allowed to sell
groundnuts on the world market, along with the Sudan Oilseed Company (SOC),
which previously was the sole exporter. Since this change, prices to the
farmers have increased.  Private merchants and the newly formed Sudan
Company for Processing of Oi:Lseeds (SCPO), which is controlled by SOC,
export groundnut oil, cakes, and meal. The local trade in Gezira is
carried out by the local village merchants and by agents working for
merchants and oilcrushers in Khartoum and Port Sudan.
5.08      The official marketing system for wheat requires all producers to
deliver up to half a ton per feddan of the crop to an authorized flour mill
at a fixed price.  The rest can be sold in an active free market created by
demand in the Northern Region, which offers prices 20 to 30% higher.
5.09      Sorghum is a subsistence crop in the Gezira, used for consumption
and as a payment in kind for cotton pickers. Any surplus production is
sold in the local market. Sudan as a whole is a surplus producer of
sorghum; however, the Gezira has in recent years has been in deficit,
compensated by imports from rainfed areas.
Pricing
5.10      Annex 2 details current cotton price projections.  Cotton prices
in general show considerable annual fluctuation. For the last 14 years,
the international price of Sudan ELS grade G-5B has averaged 27% above that
of SM 1-1/16" cotton. Projections are based on IBRD commodity price
forecasts, adjusted by a 20% quality premium for ELS over Mexican Middling
1-3/32" cotton, assuming para:Llel price development. Local prices are
fixed by CPC for each quality and type of lint, based on production and
demand projections, and calcuLated delivered to Port Sudan.  Each year on
or before December 1, after consultation with IDA, prices would be
announced by GOS based on crileria which would be parity with international
market prices, also taking note of (a) cost of production of the crop and
adequate remuneration for growers, (b) long-term stability in growers' net
returns from the crop and protection of growers from short-term
fluctuations in international prices, (c) relative prices and returns from
competing crops, and (d) level, of land and water charges recovered from
growers. Assurances to this e!ffect were obtained during negotiations.



- 43 -
5.11      SOC sells groundnuts through direct negotiation or an invitation
of bids, and competes on the local market for export of nuts with private
merchants. SOC does recommend a floor price for farmers to the Ministry of
Finance but local merchants, who also provide credit, generally pay below
this price to Gezira tenants. Groundnut projections are derived from IBRD
forecasts, with a 16% quality premium, reflecting average price
differentials over the past five years.
5.12      Government policy is to fix domestic wheat prices on the basis of
import parity prices.  However, as a result of devaluation announced on
November 15, 1982, the official wheat price of LSd 280 per ton for 1982-83
is now below import parity price equivalents.  Assurances were obtained
from Government during negotiations that wheat prices would hereafter be
announced after consultation with IDA no later than November 1 each year
and would reflect import parity prices taking note also of longer-term
stability in growers' net return from wheat. Projections for wheat are
derived from IBRD forecasts, with a quality adjustment of -10%.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND TENANTS' INCOME
A.  SGB's Cost Recovery System
General Principles
6.01      The cost recovery system for the Project would enable SGB to
recover fully production costs incurred under the Project - for investment,
inputs and services - from tenants over the Project life assumed to be 20
years.
Costs - Identification, Measurement and Means of Recovery
6.02      Costs incurred within the scheme area would include: (a) SGB's
investment costs; (b) SGB's direct agricultural production costs such as
farm inputs and machinery costs; (c) SGB's indirect costs such as
overheads (known as Chapters I and II expenditures); and (d) irrigation
water supply costs such as dam capital and operating costs and canal and
drain operating and maintenance costs incurred by MOAI(I) on behalf of the
Scheme. The financial and management accounting systems of SGB do not
presently measure these costs either accurately or on a timely basis.
Measures proposed under the Project (para. 3.47) would remedy such defects.
6.03       SGB's direct agricultural production costs would continue to be
passed on to tenants by direct charges to tenants' individual crop accounts
based on the quantum of goods supplied or services performed by the Board
for individual farmers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
SGB would recover the full cost of goods and services through such direct
charges and that the rates would be announced annually.  Cash advances for



- 44 -
hiring labor to perform agricultural operations would also te charged to
tenants' accounts.  Interest rates for cash advances would be reviewed
through the AWP mechanism (para. 4.05).
6.04       SGB's Project investment costs, indirect costs of operation and
its existing sunk costs as well as MOAI(I)'s costs would continue to be
recovered by a lard and water charge which varies at present by crop based
on the theoretical relative number of waterings each crop receives.  GOS
would notify tenants of the rates of land and water charges applicable for
each year no later than May 1, i.e. before commencement of irrigation.
Such rates would be based on principles acceptable to IDA for allocating
various costs among different crops raised in the Project area, reflecting
accurate unit costing to value all goods, services and cash loans and fixed
after consultation with IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
Ternants' Income and Ability to Pay
6.05      Tenants net returns, crop budgets with and without the project
and inacremental revenues, costs, cash incomes and net returns by crop are
shown in Annex 3.4. These figures reflect the expected increase in yields
over the Project period; and i.n summary, net returns (average net return
per tenancy assuming a tenant"s family contributes 20% of the total tenancy
labor requirements) would increase on average from LSd 1135 to LSd 2205(or
95%) for tenants in the Managil Southern Group; from I,Sd 1099 to LSd 2562
(or 130%) for tenants in the Gezira Southern Group; from LSd 988 to LSd
208 (or 110%) for tenants in the Northern Group; and from LSd 745 to LSd
1870 (or 150%) for the remaining (mainly East Bank) tenants.
Credit and Debt Recovery
6.06      SGB would provide seasonal credit to tenants in kinid (machinery
services, pesticides and their application, fertilizer, seeds, sacks and,
in the case of cotton, marketing and processing), and in cash (labor
advances). All cash advanced for labor would be against certificates
signed by Field Inspectors that the work had beeni satisfactorily
coapleteed.
6.07      All credit in cash and kind (services and inputs) extended to
tenants would be recovered through the individua:L tenants' cIrop accounts.
Recoveries would be made in cash or in the case of cotton deducted from
each tenants' gross revenue from the crop. Once overdue, amounts owing on
non-cotton crops would be deducted from disbursemaents made for cotton to
tenants. The debt situation would be reviewed in the AWP's and a detailed
review of the performance under tenant debt recovery would be held during
the Project mid-term review (para. 3.60). SGB collects MOAI(I)'s costs on
its behalf and in principle is supposed to pass such collections to
Government which incurs the expenditure in the fi.rst instance. In the
past, no amounts have been passed on but such transfers would be made under
the Project. To the extent that there were short:falls in actual debt



- 45 -
recovery during the Project period, such shortfalls would be reflected in
the transfers between Government and SGB and would be depicted in
Government accounts as a subsidy to SGB.
B. SGB's Financial Results
6.08      SGB's financial results to June 30, 1980 include tenant debts of
LSd 43.7 million which had risen by the time of appraisal (i.e. May 1982)
to over LSd 70 million. These have been consolidated by Presidential
Decree and rescheduled for recovery over a ten-year period.  There is some
doubt as to whether or not all of this amount will be collected, yet no
provision has been made in the accounts for possible loss. Also included
are amounts totalling LSd 38.8 million due to GOS which had risen by the
time of appraisal to over LSd 60 million. The amount represents
Government's share under the Joint Account and the accumulated deficit of
the Board. In view of Government's decision to place a moratorium on
tenants' debts it would be financially prudent to offset the uncollectible
debts against the amount owed to Government. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the financial statements for the fiscal year 1982/83 of
SGB would be reviewed and amended after consultation with IDA to reflect
only those useful assets and related liabilities necessary for its future
operations.
6.09      It is projected that SGB would be able to meet all its financial
costs through land and water charges by Project year 5 (Annex 3.2), with
the result that cash inflows would equal cash outflows. The latter would
include annual replacement of assets and repayment to Government of the
loan for the Project over 20 years (Annex 3.3). In the initial years,
Government subventions would be necessary to meet deficits in cost recovery
caused through farmers defaulting in repaying debts. This would amount to
LSd 30.6 million during the first four years of the Project until yields
and farmers incomes are built up sufficiently. If the Project was not
undertaken, GOS would have to provide additional subventions totalling LSd
44 million over a similar period and approximately LSd 190 million over the
first 10 years of the Project life.
C. Other Project Entities' Financial Results
6.10      MOAI(I).  MOAI(I)'s projected cash flows under the Project are
set out: in Annex 3.5 This shows an excess at the end of Project year 5 of
LSd 13.2 million and a cumulative 10 year excess of revenues over
expenditures of LSd 20.4 million. This reflects full collection of water
charges by SGB on behalf of MOAI(I) and the remittance of these amounts.
The excess would arise from depreciation charges on MOAI(I) assets included
in recoveries from tenants, and would be used to replace MOAI(I)'s assets
used on the Gezira scheme.



- 46 -
6.11      Other Project Entities.  BNHP, RWA and ARC would obtain
sufficient cash inflows either from Government in the form of grants or
from an increased sugar tax and SPTC from user fees charged to SGB and
MOAI(I). The inflows would cover projected incremental cas,h outflows on
investment and operating costs.
D. Government Cash Flow
6.12      The Government cash flow is set out in Annex 3.6.  This shows
that over the first 10 years Government's cash inflows would exceed
outflows by LSd 447 million or an average of LSd 45 million per year. If
the Project were not implemented, the GovernmerLt would have to continue the
scheme on its present basis. This would result in annual subsidies to SGB
and MOAI(I) of about LSd 16 million in 1983/84 rising to LSd 24 million in
1988/89.
Chapter VII
A. Production Benefits
7.01      The area expansion, yield improvement and additional production
anticipated under the Project: is given in Table 4 and Annex 5.2. The
Project would generate net foreign exchange earnings of US$360 million per
year after completion (1988 constant prices). Annex 3.7 gives details of
GOS's incremental foreign exchange earnings under the Project. Project
activities could thus be expected to improve the balance of payments
situation substantially, and this is its primary justification.
B. Other Benefits
7.02      Project activities would directly benefit some 102,000 tenant
families. Anticipated tenant incomes are given in Annex 3.4.
7.03      The impact of the Project on the incomes of the 200,000 migrant
laborers and 80,000 permanent laborers and sharecroppers would be felt
through more stable employment and higher earnings from piece-work, rather
than from expanded work opportunity. Higher yields would enable cotton and
groundnut pickers to work more efficiently and earn more in a given time.
Annual opportunities for all types of farm labor would incre!ase from 37.4
million days (365 mandays per tenancy) to 40.0 million days (390 mandays
per tenancy). The increase would have been 1.8 million man-days higher but
for the introduction of herbicides for weeding, a change justified by their
better results over manual weeding. Some of the increase (50% or 1.3
million days) would be through improved crop husbandry and should be able
to be met from existing resident labor which at present is not fully
employed during the growing season. The remaining incremental demand would
be for crop harvesting and would have to be met mainly from increased



- 47 -
immigrant labor outside the project area. Recent experience has shown that
the supply of such labor responds to the payment of competitive wage rates
which the projected yields and crop prices under the Project would
provide.
7.04      The Project would also contribute to the reduction of
schistosomiasis and malaria through reducing breeding sites for snails and
mosquitos by better water management, improvement of irrigation and
drainage systems and provision of safe drinking water which would help
reduce direct human contact with canal water.
C. Economic Analysis
7.05      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 35.8%.  This
compares favourably with an opportunity cost of capital of about 12.5% in
the Sudan. The high economic rate of return reflects the large amount of
sunk capital in the Project area, and increased efficiency of operations.
7.06      The main assumptions used in the economic analysis are as
follows:
(a)   Without Project Situation.  Agricultural machinery delivered to
the scheme under the ARP is expected to result in an increase in
yields and cultivated area during Project years 1 and 2 in the
without Project situation. It is assumed that the increase would
be maintained, since replacements would be financed from these
increased foreign exchange earnings.
(b)   Prices.  Medium term export parity prices are used for cotton
lint, groundnuts, and sorghum; medium term import parity prices
are used for wheat, fertilizers, and pesticides. All prices are
based on the "World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts (updated
December 1982)". Fuel prices are based on import parity prices
provided by the General Petroleum Corporation. All foreign costs
and benefits are valued at the exchange rate of US$ 1.00 to LSd
0.9. The local currency component of all incremental costs and
benefits has been converted to a border price expressed in local
currency, using a standard conversion factor of 0.6. These
figures reflect the pre-devaluation (November 15, 1982) situation
and have been used since cost data were collected prior to
devaluation. The going market wage rate of LSd 2.50 per day has
been used for labor.
(c)   Project Life.  The economic life of the Project is assumed to be
20 years. Replacements of Project assets with economic lives
shorter than that period are included.



- 48-
D. Project Risks
7.07       The difficult economic situation in the country poses a major
risk to the Project. However, the main justification for the Project is
the contribution it would make to economic recovery and therefore such
risks would have to be faced . The Project includes measures to safeguard
against risks, such as: (i) lack of access for Project entities to foreign
exchange (paras. 4.05 and 4.07); (ii) lack of access to local currency
(paras. 4.08, 4.09, 5.10, 6.03 and 6.04); (iii) failure to replace assets
(para. 3.60); (iv) fuel shortages (para. 3.60 and 4.,10); (v) inadequate
cotton prices (para. 5.10); (vi) poor response of tenants and labor to
price incentives (para. 3.60); (vii) weak management of the scheme (paras.
3.47, 4.05, 4.11 and 4.12); (viii) lack of expertise within the country
(para. 3.25 and Annex 8); (ix) shortage of skilled manpower (para. 3.25);
(x) higher than anticipated siltation of Roseires Dam (para. 3.54 and
3.56); (xi) lack of coordination among project entities and timely
disbursement of donor assistance (paras.4.01 and 4.02); (xii) pest attack
(para. 3.09 and 4.07); (xiii) adverse trends in international cotton prices
(para. 5.10); (xiv) delay in securing technical assistance (para. 4.04);
and, (xv) delay or failure to secure needed cofinancing (para. 3.40).
Switching Values and Sensitivity Analysis
7.08       Notwithstanding safeguards provided in the Project, the risks
mentioned above could materialize in varying degrees. This might lead to a
shortfall in cultivated areas and/or reduction in yields. To estimate how
resistant the Project would be to such risks, a number of sensitivity tests
were carried out. These are summarized below.
Test                                   ERR
1.  Capital Costs up 30%                         22.6%
Operating costs up 30%
Benefits down 10%
2.  Capital costs up 30%                         19.7%
Operating costs up 30%
Benefits delayed 1 year
3.  MS. cotton benefits down 30%                 27.5%
ELS cotton benefits down 50%
4.  Benefits delayed 2 years                     18.8%
Benefits down 10%
A test for switching values indicated that capital costs would have to
increase by 172%, or benefi ts decrease by 49%, for the net present value of
the Project discounted at 12.5% to be zero.



- 49 -
Chapter VIII
Summary of Agreements Reached
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(i)   The dams at Sennar and Roseires will be inspected and maintained
by GOS according to an action program prepared no later than
December 31, 1983 and acceptable to IDA (paras. 3.06 and
3.54);
(ii)   SGB will prepare an action program acceptable to IDA to
strengthen its management information system no later tnan
September 30, 1983; SGB will prepare a detailed training program
which will be submitted to IDA no later than September 30, 1983
(para. 3.24 and 3.25);
(iii)   GOS will secure from cofinanciers the balance of US$23.4 million
to complete the financing plan for the Project no later than
December 31, 1983 (para. 3.40);
(iv)   GOS will carry out studies in accordance with terms of reference
and contractual arrangements with individuals and institutions
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.27);
(v)   GOS will follow the procurement procedures for goods and services
prescribed for the Project (para.3.41 to 3.44) and hire technical
services, in accordance with IDA guidelines (para. 3.45);
(vi)   GOS will cause SGB, ARC, SPTC, MOAI(I), BNHP and RWA to maintain
their accounting system in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting practices and principles acceptable to IDA
(paras. 3.49 and 3.50);
(vii)   GOS will cause SGB, ARC, SPTC, BNHP, RWA and MOAI(I) to provide
audited financial statements within six months of the close of
each completed Project year and an independent auditors'
opinion and report to the Bank satisfactory to IDA
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year (paras.
3.49 and 3.50);
(viii,\   GOS will cause MOAI(I) and RWA to make SOEs available for
inspection by IDA supervision missions, to have such accounts
audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and submit such audited
reports to IDA within nine months of the close of each financial
year (para. 3.51);
(ix)   GOS will make arrangements that, in the event the Auditor General
cannot meet Project audit deadlines, other independent auditors
acceptable to IDA would be engaged to carry out the work required
(para. 3.52);



- 50 -
(x)   GOS will provide adequate funds for works identified during the
1982 detailed inspection of Roseires dam and ensure that MOAI(I)
carries out these works before June 30, 1985 (para 3.54);
(xi)   GOS will furnish, no later than December 31, 1983, a ten year
program for investments in the irrigation sub-sector (para.
3.56);
(xii)   GOS will conduct jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the
Project no later than December 31, 1986 (para. 3.60);
(xiii)   GOS will establish RPMU, PPC and PMC no later than September 30,
1983 (para. 4.04); all Project implementing agencies will submit
AWPs to PMC by April 1 each year. These will be submitted to IDA
for acceptance by May 1 each year (para. 4.06). For Project year
1, the AWP will be furnished to IDA not: later than September 30,
1983 (para. 4.06);
(xiv)   GOS will make timely allocations of fertilizers, pesticides,
herbicides and other necessary recurrent inputs in sufficient
quantities to project entities and furnish quarterly reports to
IDA in a format acceptable to it; GOS will prepare and submit to
IDA no later than September 30, 1984 an action program emanating
from studies conducted by it on the ways and means required to
ensure timely and adequate financing of foreign exchange needs of
project activities (para. 4.07);
(xv)   SGB will maintain a local currency account with the Bank of Sudan
and GOS will make quarterly transfers cf funds to this account in
accordance with the provisions in the AWP (para. 4.08); likewise
for the MOAI(I) in respect of irrigation maintenance expenditures
(para.4.09). SGB wi:Ll have access to a line of credit from the
BOS to cover its working capital needs (para. 4.08);
(xvi)   GOS will make arrangements for adequate and timely supply of
fuel in accordance w.Lth estimates incorporated in tlhe AWP (para.
4.10);
(xvii)   SGB will establish a Water Management Advisory Unit no later than
December 31, 1983 (para. 4.13); the operation of minor canals
will be transferred f-rom SGB to MOAI(I) in a phased manner during
the first four years of the project (para. 4.17);
(xviii)   Machinery hire rates and land and water charge rates will be
reviewed annually and based on principles acceptable to IDA; land
and water charges will be announced no later than May 1 each year
after consultation with IDA (paras. 4.22, 6.03 to 6.05);
(xix)   GOS will cause SPTC t:o enter into a tariff agreement: with SGB and
MOAI(I) acceptable to IDA for the period up to June 30, 1988, no
later than June 30, 1.984 (para. 4.21);



- 51 -
(xx)   GOS will arrange for financing by ABS of credit operations for
purchase of 75 tractors and associated implements by tenants no
later than June 30, 1984 (Iara. 4.23);
(xxi)   GOS will furnish, during the Project implementation period,
monthly progress reports, by telex, in a format satisfactory to
IDA and a Project Completion Report within six months of the
completion of the Project (para. 4.24);
(xxii)   Cotton prices for producers based on criteria acceptable to IDA
will be announced no later than December 1 each year after
consultati.on with IDA (para. 5.10);
(xxiii)   Wheat prices for producers based on criteria acceptable to IDA
will be announced no later than November 1 each year after
consultation with IDA (para. 5.12); and
(xxiv)   SGB will ensure, in consultation with IDA, that its financial
statements for the year to June 30, 1983 reflects only useful
assets and related liabilities necessary for its future
operations (para. 6.08).
8.02      The following actions will be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(i)   Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOS and SGB
(para. 3.39);
(ii)   Evidence, satisfactory to IDA, of the availability of funds from
other cofinanciers of not less than US$50 million (para. 3.40);
(iii)   Appointment of Chairman, PPC and Director, RPMU (para. 4.04);
(iv)   Enactment into law of the proposed revisions to the Gezira Scheme
Act (para. 4.14); and
(v)   Transfer of the operation of minor canals for one sub-division
from SGB to MOAI(I) (para. 4.17).



- 52 -
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT                                     ANNEX  1
ProJiect Component by Tine
(LSD Million0
Total
Base Costs            ---------------
(US$
83/84 84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88  LSD   Million)
A, IRRIGATION                                    12.6    8.9   4.8   1.1   0.6   28.1        21.6
B. DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                2.1   11.6   7.7   5.2   3.3   29.9        23.0
C. PUMPING STATIONS                               1.7    2.3   4.5      -      -    8.5       6.5
D. SENNAR DAM                                     1.7    2,6   1.1      -      -    5.5       4.2
E. SGB AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY AND EGUIPHENT    1.7    3.7   4.0   3.8   2.9   16.0           12.3
F. EXTENSION,FARMER TRAINING, AND RESEARCH        2,3    2.2   1.5   ^.7   0.6    7,2         5.6
G. WORKSHOPS AND FUEL SUPPLY
505                                           8.9    3.5   0.2   D.0   0.0   12.6         9.7
TRRIGATION DEPARTMENT MOAI                    2.5    5.9   0.3       -     -    8.7       6.7
Sub-Total WORKSHOPS AND FUEL SUPPLY              11.3    9.4   0.4   0.0   0.0   21.2        16.3
H. YEHICLES
SGB                                           7.3    3.6   3,2   1.7   1.7   17.6        13,5
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT MOAI                    3.0    2.1   0.7   0,7   0,7    7.2         5,5
Sub-Total VEHICLES                               10.3    5.7   4.0   2,4  2,4   24.7         19.0
I, ROADS                                          1.8    1.1   2.1   1.1      -    6.0       4.6
J. TELECOMMUNICATIONS                            3,7    5.4   5,0   1.2       -   15.3       11.8
K. GEZIRA LIGHT RAILWAY                           2.3    2.4   0,5   0,6   0.6    6.4         5.0
L. GINNERIES, COTTON HANDLING, AND STORAGE    12.2    8.1   5,7   0.9   0.9   27,7          21.3
M. SCHISTOSOMIASIS PROGRAM                          -    0.8   1.3   2.0   3.8    7.8         6+0
N. RURAL WATER SUPPLY                             3,5    3,9   4.2   4.2   4,2   19.9        15.3
0. STAFF HOUSING
SGB                                           2.9    2.7   1.3   1.0   0.9    8.9         6.8
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT MOAI          1.1    2.1                -      -     -    3,2       2.5
Sub-Total STAFF HOUSING                           4.1    4.8   1.3   1.0   0.9   12.1        9.3
P. REHABILITATION PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT         1.8    1.2   1.2   0.8   0.7    5,7         4,4
0. SG  MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM             1.0    1.0   2.4   0.5   0.2    5.0        3,9
R. TRAINING                                       1.0    1.6   1.3   1.0   0.5    5,5         4,2
S. OTHER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     0.8    0.7   0.5   0.3   0,1   2,4          1,8
T. STUDIES                                        0.6    1.1   1.1   0.3      -    3.2       2.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                               76.2   78.5  54.6  27.2  21.6  258.2    198.6
Physical Contingencies                           7.5    8.3   5.6   2.8   2.3   26.6       20.5
Price Contingencies                              6.7   26.9  33.1  23.1  24.4  114.1       43.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                90.5  113.7  93,3  53,2  48.3  398.9    262.7
Taxes                                           15.8   17.0  12.5   5.6   4.9   55.8       36.9
Foreign Exchange                                55.0   64.1  51.8  213.8  26.8  226.6    149.8



aMlAN
GEZIRA REHA8IITATION PRUECT
Oar-ent Financial Prices
Project Year       Year 0                Year 1                    Year 2                 Year 3                  Year 4                 Year 5
1982/83               1983/84                   1984/85                1985/86                 1986/87                1987/88                  1990/91  a/          1995/96 a/
Financial             Financial                 Financial              Financial               Financial              Financia                 Financial             Flancial
ELS COI(DN
Price LLNT cif N. Europe (US$/tn)             2,460.0               2,747.7                   3,036.0                 3,276.7                3,522.1                 3,784.0                  3,899.1              3,899.1
Price LINr fob Port Sudan (")                 2,360.0               2,640.2                   2,921.0                 3,154.8                3,392.8                 3,646.9                 3,762.0               3,762.0
Em-Ginmery Price Lint (ISd/tn)                2,105.8                2,698.5                  3,340.5                 3,989.5                4,646.4                 5,435.0                 5,609.5               5,609.5
E-Ginnery Price Cotton See  C)                  105.8                 129.8                     169.4                   212.2                  224.8                   241.1                   250.4                 240.2
Fanrate Price Seed Cotton ()                    739.4                 950.5                   1,187.4                 1,428.5                1,654.2                 1,926.1                  1,991.1               1,985.0
MS Cotton
Price LLNT cif N. Europe (US$/tn)             2,050.0                2,289.8                  2,530.0                 2,730.6                2,935.1                 3,153.3                  3,208.1              3,208.1
Price LIN1 fob Port Sudan (")                 1,950.0                2,182.3                  2,415.0                 2,608.7                2,805.8                 3,016.2                  3,071.0               3,071.0
Ex-Ginney Price Lint (LSd/tn)                 1,729.0                2,218.6                  2,749.0                 3,285.0                 3,827.6                4,479.2                 4,562.3               4,562.3
Ex-Ginnery Price Cotton Seed ()                 105.8                 129.8                     169.4                   212.2                  224.8                   241.1                   250.4                 240.2
Faragate Price Seed Cotton ()                   578.9                 745.5                     934.7                 1,127.6                1,303.8                 1,516.4                  1,548.8               1,542.5
Sorgho- 
Price fob Mexdcan Gulf Ports (US$/tn)           152.1                 179.5                     209.2                   223.4                  238.9                   255.3                   259.3                 259.3
Price fob Port Sudan (")                        180.1                 209.6                     241.4                   257.6                  275.2                   293.7                   297.6                 297.6
Fanrate Price (LSd/tn)                          198.4                 231.2                     301.0                   356.0                  412.7                   480.3                   487.4                 487.4
Wheat
Prie fob Canadian Thunder (US$/tn)              166.5                 185.9                     206.1                   220.8                  236.6                   253.5                   258.6                 258.6
Price cif Port Sudan (")                        197.5                 219.2                     241.7                   258.5                  276.7                   296.0                    301.1                 301.1
Farn,te Price (LSd/tn)                          332.3                 370.5                     452.0                   531.1                  612.2                   709.1                   720.0                 720.0
Gcaudmit
Price cif Europe, SNloed (US$/tn)               521.6                 669.9                     833.5                   893.2                  957.6                 1,026.2                  1,048.0               1,018.2
Price fob Port Sudan (")                        477.6                 622.6                     782.9                   839.5                  900.7                   965.9                   987.7                 957.9
Faragate Price LrShell (LSd/tn)                 232.5                 310.5                     451.0                   537.0                  626.3                   733.5                   752.3                 726.7
Pesticide
Price cf Port Sudan (LSd/fd)                    40.0                  62.4                      81.6                   104.3                  140.6                   162.1                   207.4                  263.6
(Pt-Site Applfed Price (LSd/fd)                  60.0                  89.5                     116.4                   148.1                  196.3                   227.4                   281.9                  349.3
Urea 
Price fob N. Europe (US$/tn)                    196.2                 210.4                     239.3                   269.9                  320.1                   333.1                   377.6                 391.8      x
Price cif Port SEdan (')                        241.2                 255.4                     287.7                   321.7                  355.0                   391.3                   435.7                  450.0     ''
Fanrgate Price (LSd/tn)                         305.6                 437.8                     544.2                  665.3                   789.0                   938.0                  1,034.1               1,064.9
TSP
Price fob US Gulf (US$/tn)                      169.7                 179.6                     206.1                  225.7                   245.0                   265.8                   277.9                 277.9
Price cif Port Sudan (")                        214.7                 224.6                     254.5                  277.5                   299.9                   324.0                   336.1                  336.1
Farsgate Price (LSd/tn)                         268.6                 377.2                     470.4                   561.9                  653.5                   762.1                   787.0                 787.0
01/04/83        a= In 1987/88 constant prices.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.1
SUDAN
Gez:Lra Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates
GOS/Project Entities
Fiscal Year (FY) a/       1983/84b/  1984/85    1985/86    1986/87         1987/88
Project Year (PY)             1           2           3           4           5
Equipment, Civil Works
and Services
(a)  Foreign exchange       1.2.0         7.5         7.0         6.0        6.CI
costs
(b) Local currency costs
(i) Wages and Salaries
Public Sector    9.0           6.0         6.0         6.0        6.0
(ii) All Other           36.5        21.0         19.0        16.5       15.Ci
Estimated Exchange Rates
Rate - LSd to US$1            1.30        1.45        1.60        1.73         1.88
a/ July 1 to June 30 each year.
b/ The price contingency rates for 1983/84 are calculated from the baseline
date (end March 1983) to the mid-point of FY1983/84 (December 31,
1983). Thereafter, price contingency rates are calculated to the
mid-point of each fiscal year.
c/ Exchange rate of US$1 = LSd 1.3 effective November 15, 1982.



Mm
G3ZIRA R8AILrYAT1N PRWlCT
S8dan GCezira Bord's  e sn] E"  eeiture Acaomt
(LSd'' sCurrent) _
Projera Year        Year 0           Year I         Year 2           Year 3          Year 4         Year S
Fiscal Year b/      198ZV83         1983/84         1934/85         1985/86         1986/87         1987/88         1988/89         1989/90          1990/91           1991/92           1992/93
FARtMSR an9N AaAhT 
Sev     Fros Sale of Lint and Seed   155,360,010  198,000,000     276,332,400     357,582,500     435,893,400     551,479,290      603,842,200    608,989,600      613,858,100       613,684,100      613,510,100
Cotton Poduction Cast.
Lnt-ed by SGB
1. Lanod Prepration and Crop
CSlti,ation Casta:
Agri-Iltoral Mad,iimry           11,973,000     16,472,000      19,621,000       22,940,000     26,118,000       29,760,000      29,760,000      29,760,000      29,760,003        29,760,000       29,760,000
S.eds                            1,175,000       1,310,125       1,589,775        1,90,80D       2,160,OD0       2,419,2D0        2,419,2D0       2,419,200       2,419,2D0         2,419,200        2,419,200
Mailca.l for Seed Treatnt               -          132,000         159,000         187,000         215,000         246,000          246,000        246,000          246,000          246,000           246,000
Fertilize.e                     17,932,000      25,754,01)      33,728,000       47,552,000     60,930,03)       77,291,000      77,291,000      77,291,000      77,291,000        77,291,000       77,291,0:3
Herbidides                       5,762,000       9,276,000      14,541,003       22,012,000     29,494,090       34,023,000      34,023,000      34,023,003      34,023,000        34,023,103       34,023,000
Pestfides                       26,400,000      38,237,000      50,231,090      65,001,000      86,038,000      98,817,00        98,817,030      98,817,09       98,817,000        98,817,000       98,817,03)
Cotton Stalk Pull1rg             2,585,030       2,882,275       3,497,505       4,181,760       4,752,000       5,322,240        5,322,240       5,322,240       5,322,240         5,322,240        5,322,240
Water (haffinn                   1.269,000       1,307,070       1,385,748        1,499,472      1,590,192        1,6Y4,800       1,684,800       1,684,800       1,684,800         1,684,890         1,684,800
Total                       67,096,000     95,370,470      124,753,028     165,274,032     210,197,192     249,563,240      249,563,240    249,563,240      249,563,240      249,563,240       249,563,240
2. Seed Catton Expe-sen Incurreo by 982:
Cotton Pidckig Ado,-            11,680,000      13,023,200      17,580,882       22,143,528     26,569,083      32,465,261       35,158,435      35,158,435      35,158,435        35,158,435        35,158,435
Ademrtini,g for Pickers            425,820         438,595         464,995         503,156         533,598          565,344         565,344         565,344         565,344           565,344          565,344
Cotton Sacks and Tdne            3,769,600       4,449,040       5,954,857        7,556,437      9,138,989       11,443,360      12,392,651      12,392,651      12,392,651        12,392,651        12,392,651
ColUeciog Statioce                 939,840         968,035       1,049,630        1,136,822      1,205,601        1,277,329       1,277,328       1,277,328       1,277,328         1,277,328         1,277,328
Tranopoot of Seed Cotton to
Ginnerits                       3,856,192      4,5C4,126       6,037,853        7,651,505      9,240,860       11,521,263      12,477,016      12,477,016       12,477,016       12,477,016        12,477,016
Total                       20,671,452     23,382,996       31,08B,217      38,991,447      46,688,128      57,272,556       61,870,774     61,870,774       61,870,774       61,870,774        61,870,774
3. Girdn  arl SBaliOo Costa        15,132,082      17,772,621      23,072,825      238,732,262     34,082,664      41,385,886       43,723,763     43,723,763       43,723,763        43,723,763       43,723,763
4. Lint Cotton aqenoses - Trawsport
6 Hladliop to Port Suden        3,051,840      3,523,829       4,731,855        5,987,516      7,219,765        8,957,915       9,701,024       9,701,024        9,701,024        9,701,024         9,701,024
5. Cotton Seed Nqmoree -
Saaks    Twior                  1,984,123      2,341,600       3,134,135        3,977,072      4,809,994        6,022,821       6,522,448       6,522,448       6,522,448         6,522,448         6,522,448
6. Crop Irrsa-                        960,000        988,800        1,166,256        1,329,393      1,488,596       1,720,680        1,863,420       1,863,423       1,863.420         1,863,420        1,863,420
7. Other B,er-s:
Rat Cpsig,                         423,000        435,690          461,916         499,824         530,064          561,600         561,600         561,600         561,600           561,600           561,600
Mi-ollseea Production FpeKFee      292,200         300.966         320,502          346,869        367,855         389,740          389,740         389,740         389,740           389.740           389,740
Total                          715,200        736,656         782,418          846,693        897,919          951,340          951,340                         951,340          951,340           951,340
Total Cotton Production Costa
Ienawred by 8G                109,610,574    144,116,971     188,729,734      245,138,415    305,384,259      365,874,438     374,196,009     374,198,009      374,196,009      374,196,009       374,196,009  
Lend  d Water Charges o Cotto c/ 12,540,0CO     20,535,372      31,679,776       41,303,032     48,325,042       57,541,329      59,117,554      62,229,595       65,055,831       63,866.715        63,721,205
Total Reorivable on Cotton
PFre Fao,ers                  122,150,574    164,652,343     220,408,509      286,441,497     353,709,302     423,415,768     433,313,563     434,425,604      439,251,840      438,062,724       437,917,214
Net Payable to Farzers          33,209,426 c/   33,347,657      55,923,891       71,141,003     82,184,098      128,063,433     170,528,637     172,543,996      174,606,260      175,621,376       175,592,886
* Natwee en,, er



- 56 -
ANNEX 3.2
16 3                                                             ze 2 of Z
86m 89aira  elsms   7    6d rumLt,as e.,
B..d'OOO L-    t5 F   lt -        t
(1,5850D. 0-e.t ) 7
Projct Y_            Yer 0            Yr I           Y. 2             Yer 3            Yr 4            Y y   5
FicaL '6%r b/      19283            1963/84         1984/85          1965J86         1986/87         1987/88          1988/89         1989/90          1990/91           1991/92           1992/93
S0'. N6'f 8EV023E Aa21r
8-e  Fss, I.d ed Ibter Cher
A-  PeLoble Flu nl1 Cprs c/ 23,370,000           39,058,044       61,819,562      83,896,86       102,428,079     L22.5,88049      125,946,034     132,576,074      133,597,2Z3       136,063,872      135,753,872
L-a: eFdumetd LU-1acthble d/
-tr                         8,179,500      11,717,413      15,454,891       16,779,377      15,364,212       12,258,f85      12,594,609      13,257,609       13,859,721        13,606,387        13,575,387
Ne.t 8ee Fx Ld ed
8t4er C lase                   15,190,500      27,340,631       46,364,672       67,117,509     87,063,867      110,329,245      113,351,485     119,318,485      124,737,485       L22,457,485       L22,178,485
00025 0,ehea C-ot
1. COaptor I tss
Di-'. torP- tnineL                   70,0Z0         72,100           76,440           80,993          85,S8D           91,00           91,0Z0          91,00D           91,000            91,0ZD            91,000
Staff  alae,  1   asd
SALLs                           5,500,003       5,665,0Z         6,006,00D        6,363,502      6,748,50         7,156,03O        7,L50,0LD       7,150,O00        7,150,OM         7,150,0L0         7,150,000
O-er     lis                        500,013         515,0C0          546,0O          578,502         613,500          650,030          650,0L          650,000         650,0Z0           650,00D           650,0LO
y-sl1, Y4d Calntibtie               800,000         824,0C0         873,600          925,60D         981,600        1.04,000         1,040,000       1,040,000        1,040,000        1,040,000         1,040,000
7bt1                         6,870,0C0       7,076,100        7,502,040        7,948,590       8,429,490       8,931,000        8,931,000       8,931,000        8,931,000        8,931,000         8,931,000
7. Cp-ter II EY
VehicLe Ope-ati-, C-to            1,530,000       2,407,000        3,8%,003        5,761,0C0       8,063,000       10,705,0C        10,705,000      IC,705,0Z0       10,705,0C0       10,705,0_0        10,705,000
R0d imta                                  -              -         1.111,0L 0      2,611,000       3,018,000        3,418,000        3,418,000       3,418,000        3,418,000        3,418,000         3,418,DOO
,d11di,g M6loter-re                 860,090       1,032,00         1,165,000       1,418,000       1,780,0Z0        2,232,L10        2,232,030       2,232,00D       2,232,402         2,232,000         2,232,000
Utilitit                            650,000         702,375        1,517,050       2,476,475       2,716,075        2,956,325        2,956,325       2,956,325        2,956,325        2,956,325         2,956,325
A1it FP                              20,00          20,600           21,484           23,14D          24,584            6,OW           26,00           26,00 Z6,002                       26,0Z0            26,000
s,rci,tit- - Vebile               1,530,0C0       2,260,1O0       4,525,000        5,923,0D0       7,421,00         8,523,0D0        8,523,0C       8,523,000        10,190,200       10,557,000        10,745,000
- 951ldi0W              300,0C0         312,00D         336,300          399,7M0         381,300          403,500          403,500        403,50D          403,50D           403,520           403,503
IOtee0, 1 06rlWkt  Capital          595,8C0        674,165          907,376        1,214,292       1,441,866        1,696,100        1,696,100      1,696,100        1,696,100         1,696,L10         1,696,100
Total                        5,485,800       7,406,140       L3,389,566       19,786,607      24,845,781      29,959,925       29,959,925      29,959,925       31,626,925        31,993,925       32,181,925
TatL SG D1        Costa          12,355,820      14,482,240       20,891,606      .7,735,197      33,275,271       36,80,925        38,890,925      31,884,925       40,557,925       84,924,925        41,112,925
8ti- D99rt oe        f M15
Ctst                           10,750,0O       13,761,030       18,986,030      24,859,0Z0      29,573,00D       33,292,031       34,827,0C0      35,124,0C0       35,980,0OO       36,531,030        36,595,000
It-t CaB .   Project
L_  re 0        t                     _          62,000        4,679,000        8,362,000      11,568,000       12,8933000       13,777,000      13,777,00        U3,777,000       L3,777,000        13,777,000
Di0cd.d to G5                                            -                -                -              -         5,022,320        5,168,560       5,168,560       5,168,560         5,188,584         5,188,560
T7tal Clot.                      23,105,80       28,305,240      44,556,606       63,956,197      74,416,271       90,098,245       92,663,485     92,90,485        95,503,485        96,421,485        96,673,485
Eo  (Leflcit) e/ of ie9          (7,914,502)       (964,609)       1,808,066       li,161,312     12,647,596       20,231,03D       20,668,000      26,338,000       29,234,05        26,036,000        25,505,000
Orer Y4sss refor /mF6
COH]  6l.ti-
Z-t  6otJti-e/                    7,914,500       7,811,609       9,272,934        S,389,689       5,L21,404                                -               -                -                         -
ft       (09f0it) of FE                  -        8,776,218       11,081,0LO       1U,551,001     17,769,00          . 20,231,000   20,668,000      256,358,0D0      29,234,0D0       26,036,0OD        25,505,0CO
L-d ad 084eV Csa. by Cop (per fea)
ottl-                             23.5 f/          47,0            70.0             30.0           105.0            125.0            129.0           35.0            141.0             139.0             139.0
8assc                             140 f/          23.0             35.0             C5.0            53.0            63.0             64.0            63.0             71.0              69.0             69.0
Ct                                 18.0  /       29.0            44.0             i6.0            66.0             78.0             80.0           85.0             88.0              87.0              87.0
la                                  7.0  /         12.0            18.              12.0            26.0             31.0             32.0           34.0             35.0              35.0              35.0
V09-bl6                            28.0Of/         47.0            70.0             910.0          105.0            125.0           1L9.0            135.0           141.0             139.0             L39.0
PrIer          ,                    7D7.0         L2.0             18.0              2.0            26.0             31.0             32.0           34.0             35.0              35.0              35.0
at   Co.oc-tos-  f to a co.stat to curre-t fer Project years I thcough 5 Is itde ..ito  local cod ioe-rofti.oIlt   of   flti-.  Thereafter  --nt-t year 5 price-  -re   ed.
b/   Fiscal year r.o fro. J.uy I to Joo  30.
c/   The lnd aed eater rhargee are it,eaded tr ro-er eater costs, SGB overteed  o.sts (ieclodiog an a.somed 102 a                         bs,l had debt espeosel aodo :.to of capital.  It aso.  .lrlod.e
costs cf replacing eilstig .ssete .eces.itated  by i-s.ffili.ot depreciatinn charges in she pest.
d/   Ased bad debt rots I. project year 0 - 35:; Project year 1 - 307; Project year 2 - 252; Project Yeer 3 - 201:; Project year 4 - 157; Psoject year 5 - 10%.
Sad debts are assumed to be a repes..ibility of SGB fro. Project year 5 -soards.
e/   Until yields increase it is aesemed GOS  -etId provide sab-eoti..s nn the differe-re bet-ees  the assed bad del,t rate 00  Ied and eater charges for the applicable year
(see Nnte c/ sbove) and leb  bad debt rate 0a Project year 5 (.epersed to be 10).
f/   Land *ad eater raCes for 1982/83 vere annnnnced by GOS ir 1981/82.



ANNEX 3.3
GEZRA ROMMtIN    l ta
9zim Cezira Board
Protectd Cush Fm Lkder tte Projont
(ISdUtOt's Curteit) a/
FY      1               2               3               4               5
FY    1983/84        1984/85         1985/86         1986/87         1987/88        1968/89         1989/90           1990/91         1991/92         1992/93
-. Fr Gcr  .ent for
- Capital Costs b/
Paopi98 Statios                     -           2,000           3.99            3,366              -               -              -               _               _               _
Agriculturnl Machinery              -           1,804           4,723           5,576          5,716           4,196
*  Seed Proga                          -             403             337               -              -
Ptlot Schtes6                       -             436             524              -               -               -               -              _               _               _
Workhp                              -          10,386           4,760             179             47              50               -              -               -               _
Vehicles                            -           7,268           3,010          2,518               -               -
lads                                -           2,196           1,530           1,823              -               -               -              -               -               -
Ce-ira Light Rail-y                 -           2,733           3,503            864           1,235           1,'8
Ginneries                         205          13,443          10,03           8,304               -               -
Cotton HonUlirg ard Storage         -             781           1, 32          1,450           1,6'9           1,953
Staff Housin                        -           3,649           3,923          2,198           2,054           2,240
M1m0                              143             133             608           2,770              -               -               -              _               _               _
Training                            5           1,171           2,359           2,39           2,134           1,230               -
Other Technical Assistance        153             762           1,059            796             596             235               -
506         47,024          40,986          36,433          13,471         11,192               -                              -               -
- Fr. Sale of Cotton List
a.l Seed                      198,000         276,332         357,583         435,893        55,479          603,842         648,970         613,836        611,864         613,510
- Subwertions c/                    7,812           9,273           8,390           5,121                      -               -               -                      -               -
2. Fraz Fns   for LTad ant
Water Charges
on Non Cotton Crops (mot) d/      6,806          14,685          25,815          38,739         52,788          54,234          57,088          59,681         58,590          58,457
TOrAL INF101                      213,124         347,314         432,774         516,186        617,738         6f,268          666,0'8         673,539        672,274         671,967
1. On Investoert Cost for S9-             505          47,024         40,986          36,433          13,471          11,192              -               -               -               -
2. tn Replsc.t of SGB's isiatig         6,817          8,765          10,411          12,041          13,W47          13,847          19,517         22,413          19,215          L8,694
Assets
3.  For Cperatinrg EXpenes:
- Land Prepeastion and Crop      95,370         124,754         165,274         210,197        2Z,563          249,563         249,563         249,563        249,563         249,563
Cultivation Costs
- Seed Cotton Sepeeses           23,363          31,C88          36,991         46,698          57,273          61,871          61,871         61,871          61,871          61,871
- Ginnirg and Baling Ctsts       17,773          23,C73         23,732           34,013         41,366          43,724          43,724          43,724         43,724          43,724
-Other 8Xeones                    7,391           9,815          12,141         14,416          17,653          19,037          19,01          19,037          19,037          19,037
- Chapter I 5Epenses              7,076           7,502          7,949           8,429           8,931           8,931           8,931          8,931           8,931           8,931
- Chapter II Expenases            7,406          13,390          19,787         24,846            ,%960         2,960           3,960          31,6f7          31,994          32,182
150,599        2t9,622         272,874         338,6'9        404,766         413,t06         413,(B6         414,753         415,120        415,3t0
4. To Farners to settle                33,348         55,924          71,141          82,184         128,063         170,53)        172,544         174,606         175,621         175,393
Inlividuel Cotton Accessots
5. To Covernont as 8epey.rMt of Loan e/  92            6,995          12,52           17,236          19,277          20,98          20,98           20,S8           20,398          20,98
6. To OAkI Irrigation Delontoast       13,761          18,986         24,8'9          29,573          33,292          34,827         35,124          35,980          36,531          36,95
for Water C2rsrges
7. Capital Charge - Otvidend6               -              -               -               -           5,022           5,189           5,189          5,189           5,189           5,189
TOTAL OOIFIDH8                    213,124         347,314         432,774         516,186        617,736         669,38         666,036         673,53          672,274         671,967
*WNIAL t1SXt88 (DtFICfl3 tF                 -              -               -               -               -              -               -               -               -              -
REIM  OVER atirlTFl
a/ Cbonersion frne c-eta,t to cernt for Projont years I tlro,1h 5 is mae using local and international rates of inflatbcn. luredter Projat ypear 5 Inflation rate iU osed.
-/ A lag of I fiscal year is ase  in ttot cases beten cafitment sad dieburset.
e/ To cser bad debt losess in Projert years 1 to 4 abce the soealy mecFted 107.
N/ Set of all -emrerad lm-a,ts.
e/ Ca axtount lent repsyabin over 20 years at 147.



S DAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farnrs' Incrones
Constant 19_ 83 Cropping year LSd/'Tenancy
Year   1 !                                                Year 6 2/                                                    Year 6 2/
Without Project                                           Without Project                                                With Project
iNet Returns to Tenancies  3/                             Net Returns to Tenancies 3/                                  Net Returns to Tenancies 3/
Farm               Cropping              No. of        Operated by   Operated by                    No. of       Operated by   Operated by                      N.o. of       Operated by   Operated by
[8del              Pattem               Feddans        Hired Labor   Family Labor                  Feddans       Hired Labor   Family Labor                    Feddans        Hired Labor   Fanily Labor
1. Southern Group         ELS Cottao             5                4763            55()                      5               684            770                          5              1,226           1,357
_ >Xnagil             (Crnrodnts             2                 82             102                       2.5             188            218                          2.5              34S             375
(22,000 tenancies)  Sorghuan               3                 72              87                       3               124            151                          3                145             177
Vegetables             1                58              72                       1                 73            86                           1                173            211
Fodder                 1                26              29                        1               32        __ 47  __                       2                262    ___ 299
T(7iALS                                714             840                                      1,101         1,272                                         2,151           2,419
2. Southern Group          ElS Cotton            5                476             550                       5               684            770                          5              1,256           1,357
- Gezira              Wheat                  5                  5              18                                                      (26)                          5               330             345
(28,000 tenancies)  Groundnuts             2                 82             102                      2.5              188            218                          2.5              345             375
Sorgisn               3                 72              87                       3                124           151                          3                145             177
Vegetables             1                58              72                       1                 73            86                           1                173            211
Fodder                 I                26              29                       I                32             47__                        2            _    262            299
TI7FAis                                719             858                                      1,062         1,246                                         2,511           2,764
3. Northern Group         Eas Cotton              5               47S             550                       5               684            770                          5              1,256           1,357
%nagil and Gezira   'heat                     5                 5              18                       5                (39)          (26)                         5                330             345
(40,01iO tenancies)   Groundouts            2                 82             102                       2.5              188           218                          2.5              345             375
Sorghun               3                 72              87                       3                124           151                          3                145             177
TIIAlS                                 635             757                                        957         1,113                                         2,046           2,254
4. Rest, Neialy iEs!       Ig Cottoni             5               272             379                       5                414           553                           5               999           1,179
84nk           Jheat                  5                  5              18                       5               (39)           (26)                         5                313             345
(12,0(10 tenancies)   Crourdnuts            2                 82             102                       2.5              188           218                          2.5              345             375
Sorghunm               3                72              87                       3                124           151                          3                 145            177
Tortl Tenancies 102,0^0   TOTALS                                  431             586                                        707           896                                          1,819          2,376
n !0
1/  FY 1982/83.
2/ FY 1988/39.
3/  Uased an estirates of nardays required if labor hired aral supervised or if work done by family labor oily.  F.nally labor priced at LS,d2.5 per marray, ard therefore oet retouns to tenancies are arrived at after
deducting hired Libor and notional farily labor costs.



* 59 *                                                         ANNEX 3.4
2iT2bT Zf 3
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
ParserS' IscowS.
Parsers Sediets By Crop I - Su_ary
(Led 1983 ConSt.nt)
EXTRA LONG STAPLE         HEDIUM STAPLE
COTTON                    COTTON             W  N E   T        CROUNDNUTS             DURA           VEGETABLE             FODDER
(5 fdn-.                (5 fd..)             (5 fdne)          (2.5 fd.s)          (3 fdn-)           (I fdna)            (I fdn.) 2/
1.  FIscal Year 198B/89 - ProJect Year 6 (Without Project) - (LSd)
REVENUE
Value of Production
- Cash (LSd)                           2,522                    2,301                  357               577                129                648                  150
- Sushsltn-ce (LSd)                        -                        -                  357               145                385                162
Total Val.e of Prodhition           2.522                    2.301                  713              721                 513               810                  150
COSTS
CoGa.   of Prodoctlon                    1,676                    1,742                  726              445                 2S9                626                   69
FARIIERS CASH INCOME AND NET RETURNS
Tenants Cash In-ate Assnaing Tenant
Hires LAbor/ha-                          846                      559                  (14)             276                 224                185                  82
Tenants Cash Inco..   ANsusing Tenant
PerfEatn Labor Operstion/han           1,145                      878                   37              318                 426               273                  113
o. of Man Days P.l in by Tenant
- Adonaing Te-ant Perforoe
Labor Operatlono                     150                      130                  25                40                 110                75                   25
-AasninH Tenanl Hi ret Labor            65                       50                   10               35                  40                 45                  20
-Rte/Handay                              2.50                     2.30                 2.50             2.30                2.50              T.50                 2.50
Ipotd Cos- of Ta-nt Eff-ort
Asnoning T.n.n.  Hires Labor           163                      125                   25               88                 100               113                   50
Aosning T.nan.  PerCorrs
Lrbor Opett-ons                      375                      325                  63               100                 275               187                   63
Retnrs to T n.ec A.sefiog Terant
Hires Labor/han                          684                      434                  (39)             188                 124                73                   32
Hee-ro to To..et Assesing Tenone
perfor,so Labor Oporatoons/har           770                      553                  (26f             218                 151                86                   47
Return to Te...t A.s.oing Tenant
lir.n  Labor/Ode                         137      -                87                   (8)              76                  42                73                   32
Hetorn to TenaHt As-siog Tenant
Prrforas Labor Cper-tinns/fdn            154                      111                   (6)              87                  51                86                   47
ER.  Fiscal Year l988/89 - PrsJ.nt yea  6 (Witb P-jeet)   (LSd)
iREVENUE
oelae of Prnducti-n
- Cash (L8d)                           3,252                    3.103                  594              761                 260               900                  400
- Ssbelste..n  (LSd)                       -                        -                  594              191                 390               225
Tntal Valor of Prndoction           3,252                    3,103               1,188               951                650              1,125                  480
COSTS
Casts of ProductL4s                      1,839                    1,955                  808              519                 381               791                  112
PARM0RS CASH ISCOXE ADOl NET RETURNSS
Tenants Csbh Incose Assssi.g Tensst
Hires Labor/bah                        1,413                    1,149                  380              433                 270               335                  349
Tenants Cash Itcose A.s ing T-sant
Perform  Labnr Op-retion/har           1,757                    1,529                  407              475                 452               423                  399
No. nf  en Days Put Is by Tesn.t
- Aes-sieg Tesrat Perferms
Labsr Op'erat iss                    160                      140                   25               40                 110                85                   40
- Aealasts  Tenan.t hires LaSbr           75                       60                   20               35                  50                65                   35
- Uren/llaMdeo                             2.50                     2.0                  2.50             2.50                2.50               2.50                2.50
Ip.etd Cost of lenats Efforts
- A.s.antg Tenant Hires Laber            188                      150                   50               s8                 125               163                   88
-  AsgT T-e-n-  Performs
Labnr OperHtin.s                     400                      350                   63              100                275                213                  100
Reture to Te-tn A&ouAi.g Ten-nt
Hires Labor/hee-                       1,226                      999                  330              345                 145               173                  262
Retsre to TeH..t A.ssoing Tonast
Perfores Labor Opereti-es/hev          1,357                    1,179                  345              375                 177               211                  299
Retmro to Tees-e Aenoning T.en.t
Hire. L.bor/-Od                          246                      200                   66               69                  49               173                  131
.ettro to Ten_nt Ases:%ig Tenant
Perfnres  Labor Opnr tione/fdn           272                      236                   69               75                  59               211                  150
1I Cr0p data shone in this table ie pre h-aeh..
t/ With p-nje-c sitiatln - 2 fdne.



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farmers' incomes
Incremental Farmers Budgets By Crop 1/ - Summary
Year 6 With and Without Pro'ect
(Lsd 1983 Constant)
EXTRA LONG STAPLE          MEDIUM STAPLE
COTTON                     COTTON                W H E A T         GROUNDNUTS               DURA            VEGETABLE               FODDER
(5 fdns)                  (5 fdns)               (5 fdns)          (2.5 fdns)             (3 fdns)            (I fdns)             (I fdns)
REVENUE
Incremental Value of Production
- Cash (LSd)                                730                        802                   237                184                  112                 252                    330
- Subsistence (LSd)                           -                          -                   238                 46                    5                  63        _
Total Value of Production                730                       802                    475                230                  137                 315                   330
COSTS a/
Incremental Costs of Production
- Machinery Operations                        -                          -                     9                  -                    8                   -                      -
- Labor                                      20                         20                      -                 -                    -                  20                     30
- Other                                     134                        180                    77                 73                   87                 140    ____             29
Total Costs of Production                154                       200                     86                73                   95                 160                     59
Incremental Tenant's Cash Income              576                        602                   389                157                   42                 155                    271
Incremental Number of Mandavs                  10                         10                      8                 -                    8                  20                     15
Put in by Tenant
Rate/Manday                                 2.50                       2.50                  2.50               -                    2.50                2.50                   2.50
Imputed Cost of Tenant's Efforts           25                         25                    20                  -                   20                  50                    38
Incremenital Return to Tenant/                551                        577                   369                157                   22                 105                    233
Hawasha
Incremental Return to Tenantt/                110                        115                    74                 63                    7                 1(5                    233
Feddan
a/  The analysis assumes a tenant's family contributes 20% of the total tenancy labor requirements.



- 61 -                                                                       ANNEX 3.5
CEZIRA 11A rLrATIIO9N AND MMZEATICIN PFRIEaC
Irri8tion Department - M1U
Pojected Cash Flows Lrder the Project
(8d'30-s Curere) Ir
PY       1              2               3               4              5
FY    1983/84        1964/85         1985/86         1986/87        1987/88         1988/89         1989/90           193/91         1991/92         19q2/93
CFIJSE
1. Fr-c  Coser ornt for
- Capital Costs 2/
Irrigation - Regulators               -          8,270           9,859           7,408           1,389            622               -               -               -               -
- Canal Maintenaree        -           5,925           2,134           1,122            825             732
- Drainage                 -           2,531          16,740         12,374           8,936           6,068
Se'nar Tam                            -           2,08D          3,928           2,001               -
'Worlshop                             -           2,950          8,605             403
Venicles                              -           2,995           1,861              -                               -              -               -               -               -
bere19 g-                                         1,375          3,101               -                       -                      -               -               -               -
-         26,126          45,628          23,3C8          11,050          6,822               -               -               -               -
2.  (to, S.B as Lard anl               13,761          18,986         24,859          29,573          33,292         34,927          35,124          35,980          36,531          36,S95
Water Charges 3/
IOAL FIDWS                         13,761          45,112          70,487         52,8S1          44,342          41,649          35,124         35,980          36,531          36,595
!.ri lestre Costs for:
- Irrigation ard Drainage
Eqaipe-t ani Works                 -          1R,836          32,061         22,955          1,050           6,822               -          10,135 8/       1,010 8/
- Oter Equipnent aol Works             -           4,325          11,706            403               -                                              -               -               -
- Vehicles                             -           2,995          1,861               -               -              -           5,936 8/        2,9963/
-         25,126          45,628          23,308          11,050          6,822           5,S36          13,131           2,010              -
2. OperatiCg Ctsts
- Chapter I
Cliasfied aol I lUIasified     2,500           2,650          2,809           2,977           3,156           3,156          3,156           3,156           3,156           3,156
Staff
Cano1 Labor 4/                 2,407           2,785          2,594           2,709           2,871           2,871           2,871          2,871           2,971           2,R71
4,907          5,435           5,403           5,686          6,027           6,027           6,027           6,027          6,027           6,027
- Chapter TI
Db Operatiroos
- Roaeires 5/                  107             119             131            143             155             155                            155 115                         155
- Sz-nar                       107             119            131             143             155             155            155             155             155             155
GeziraMlasagil Scheme
- Civil
Silt Clearan^e
- Orairs                   -             864           2,031          3,755           5,582           6,911          6,911           6,911           6,911           6,911
- Canals               5,134           6,124          7,229           8,232           9,365           9,365          9,365           9,365           9,365           9,365
Weod Rsearrh                75             203             369            166               -               -               -              -               -               -
Maintetoance of Strurbtres  846            938           1,028          1,113           1,250           1,250           1,2501250                      1,700           1,200 1
ard BoIldiogs
- Electrical aod Merhanical  1,583           1,825          2,068           2,364           2,701           2,701           2,701          2,701           2,701           2,701
Paps aodl Orainage Panps
- Other Operating Coats 6/     633           1,879          3,041           3,387           3,664           3,664           3,664          3,684           3,664           3,664
8,527         12,235          16,417          19,790          22,822         24,151          24,151          24,151         24,151          24,151
Total MOAI(T) Oprating Casts      13,434          17,670         21,820          25,476          28,849          30,178         30,178          30,17R          30,178          30,178
TaLAL 1111t                     13,434         43,799          67,448          48,7PA          39,899          37,030         36,014          43,309          32,188          30,17R
AN1AL EXCES3 (DEFtCIT) OF
INFLOlI5 OVER CUSrFLOW             327           1,313          3,039           4,097           4,443          4,649            (893)         (7,329)         4,343           6,417
a1lxAITE zXCESS (tEFiCTr) OF 7/
INFLI1S OVER C7rFLfWS              327          1,640           4,679           8,776          13,219         17,868          16,978           9,649          13,992         21,409
1     nversion frmn constant tD current for Project yearn I throgsh 5 is made usfg local aol international rates of inflatben. Thereafter Project year 5 inflation rate is used.
2/ A lag of of 1 fiscal year is assomed between cwitnt ard disburses,t.
3/ Includes recovery of depreciatin on certain of M13l(1)s assets.
Primarily for Canal Weedirg.
5,r 1/3 of total cr5t to C-elra.
6 I Including MOT Vehicle inc,,enetal opatirg cost.
7' Paid back to Coenrrmest or- mairtained in a "qezira Asset Replaerntr Fi'.
8/  Replsent of aasets.



CFZIRA REHABILITATION PRaJFCT
Covernment of Sudan
TIcremental Cash Flo UrOder the Project
(ISd'(XXls Current) 11
PY       1              2               3               4              5
FY    1983/84        1984/85         1985/86         1986/87        1987/88        1988/89       1989/90           1990/91         1991/92         1992/93
Crop Taxes                              -              -           3,409           8,364          19,274          25,229         25,229          25,229          25,229          25,229
Import Taxes                            -          15,823         16,971          12,515           5,605          4,896           1,416           2,752           1,252             330
Repayment of SB Loan                  92           6,995         12,502          17,296          19,277          20,598         20,598          20,598          20,598          20,598
IDA Gredit ard Otter
00-FinancieT's Loan                 781          56,024         65,378          52,816          29,791          27,812              -               -
'et Reduction in Subsidies ard
Grants to Project Entities        7,949           8.364         11 264          16,695          24,147         24,147          24,147          24,i47          24,147          24,147
J3vidends fram S-B                      -              -               -               -           5,022          5,189           5,189           5,189           5,189           5,189
8,822         87,206         109,524         107,686         103,116        107,871          76,579          77,915          77,915          77,915
OtrFintS
Investoents in Project Entities 2/   1,396        83,687         101,859          77,025          35,859          28,643          4,014           2,143           1,674           1,330
Import Taxes Fbre8pne Through
Tncreaid Wheat Prouction              -              -             621             972           3,558           5,824          5,824           5,824           5,824           5,824
Repaymert of IDA Credit ard
Other Co Financiers Loans         1164            1,235          1,388           1,535           1,638           1,709          1,743           1,743           1,743           1,743
2,560         84,922         103,868          79,532         41,055          36,176          11,581           9,710           9,241           8,897
ANIUAL IINRDNTAL EXCESS (DF.Y1CT)
OF IT1S  OVER =UIFML3IJ               6,252           2,284          5.656          2A,11.4         62,061          71,695 -4,998                  68, T0          68,614          69,018
aJMLtAfIV  INFl2NTAL F.XESS
(MF'TCIT) OF INFLDIJS iER rtYlFLOS    6,262          8,546          14,202          42,356         104,417         176,117        241,110         309,315         377,989         447,007
1/ CkAwersion fron cnstart to currert For Project yerrs I tr-,ugh 5 is rrie  1rwing local ard Interutionail roates of inflarfon. 7hereafter Project year 5 tnflat Ion rate is orredr
2/ Excluds incrasetal operatDng costs of reaeere earrrwirn  project ertities.



gnnAN
CFZIRA REHABILrrATION PROJECT
Goverment Increnrental Foreign Exhange Earnings Under the Project
($'000's Current) I/
PY      1              2              3              4               5
FY   1983/84        1984/85         1985/86        1986/87        1987/88       1988/89      1989/90          1990/91         1991/92        1992/93
Incremental Foreign Exhange Inflows
Increases in Export Crops               -              -          51,853        130,936        239 ,160       370,617        370,617         370,617        370,617        370,617
Reductiorn in Crop Imports              -              -           3,885          5,623         18,944         30,888         30,888          30,888         30,86          30,888
1TAL                                 -                         55,744        136,59         278,104        41,S505        4(1,505         401,505        401,505         401,505
Tncrerntal Foreign Exhange Outflows
Increases in Crop Inputs                -          5,368          11,683         18,920         24,643         27,333         27,333         27,333          27,333         27,333
Iacreases in Machinery
Rurnirg Costs                         -           4,304          5,205         11,880         13,700         14,520         14,520          14,520         14,520         14,370
Repyment of l-rans to
Financing Agencies                  895            851            868             887            895            909            927            927             927            927
TOAL                               895          10,323         20,756         31,687         39,238         42,7 62         42,779         42,779         42,779          42,779
ANNUAL IIMMTAL (OD       lfIr) Nr                                                                                                                                                              >
FCREIGN MIME FARNINS                 (895)        (10,523)        34,988        104,872        238,866        358,743        358,726         353,726        358,726        353,726          zz
aIEIATIMUVE I1w42'     (DlJ3x9fNTAL)
NET FCREIGN EIANE FARNI!tS           (395)        (11,418)        23,570        12B,442        367,3C8        726,051       1,C84,777      1,443,503      1,802,223       2,160,955
1/ Conversion fran constant to current for Project years I through 5 is made using local ard interrational rates of inflation. 'Thereafter Project year 5 inflation rate is used.



- 64 -                                 Annex 4.1
SUDAN
Gezira Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Disbursement 1/
--------US$-000
IDA             Quarter                  By End of
Fiscal Year          Ended                   Quarter           Cumulative
1983           June 1983                    0.3                0.3
1984           September 1983               0.3                0.6
December 198:3              2.4                 3.0
March 1984                   1.0                4.0
June 1984                   2.1                6.1
1985           September 19834              9.0               15.1
December 1984i              2.2                 7.3
March 1985                  2.7                20.0
June 1985                   7.2                27.2
1986           September 1985               4.9               32.1
December 1985               2.9               35.0
March 1986                  6.0               41.0
June 1986                   3.6               44.6
1987           September 1986               3.1               47.7
December 1986               6.8               54.5
March 1987                  3.9                58.4
June 1987                   3.1               61.5
1988           September 1987               2.4               63.9
December 1987               1.3               65.2
March 1988                  4.7               69.9
June 1988                   1.8               71.7
1989           September 1988               2.3               74.0
December 1988               1.0               75.0
March 1989                  4.0               79.0
June 1989                   1.0               80.0
1/ Expected date of signing: June 30, 1983.
Expected date of effectiveness: September 30, 1983.
Expected completion date: June 30, 1988.
Expected closing date:  June 30, 1989.



- 65 -                     Annex 4.2
SUDAN
Gezira Rehabilitation Project
Categories of Expenditure
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                        % of
(Expressed in                    Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)                    to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                          8,750,000
(a)  carried out under                                              100% of foreign
a contract                                                    expenditures and
35% of local ex-
penditures
(b)  carried out under                                              35% of local
force account                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles, equipment,                44,470,000                      100% of foreign
machinery, materials                                                expenditures, 100%
and spare parts                                                     of local expend-
itures (ex-
factory) and 55%
of local expend-
itures for other
items locally
procured
(3)  Technical. Services                  8,060,000                      100%
(4)  RPMU Expenses                        1,860,000                      100%
(5)  Training                             1,390,000
(a)  over.seas                                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  local                                                          40% of local
expenditures
(6)  Operation and Maintenance            1,650,000                      60% of local
expenditures
(7)  Refunding of Project                   560,000
Preparation Advance
(8)  Unallocated                          7,460,000
TOTAL                      74,200,000



Agricultural Production, Area and Yield, Gezira: 1972/3-81/2
ELS Cotton                         1972-3      1973-4     1974-5      1975-6     1976-7      1977-78    1978-9  1979-80         1980-1     1981-2
Area(OOOfd)                        589         589        588         381        477         474        409         446         427        381
Yield(tons/fd)                       0.59        0.71       0.66        0.39       0.51        0.57        0.41       0.36        0.3        0.5
Production(OOO tonis)              348         418        388         149        243         270        168         161         128        191
MS Cotton
Area(000fd)                         15          14          15         15          22         45          89         94          74         56
Yield(tons/fd)                        0.59       0.9        0.8         0.34        0.56       1.1         0.74       0.53        0.47       0.6
Production(OOO tons)                 9          12         12           5          12         48         66          50          35         34                  1
Wheat
Area(OOOfd)                        145         254        428         568        505         466        493         363         367        247
Yield(tons/fd.)                      0.67        0.8        0.39        0.39        0.58       0.47        0.25       0.4R        0.25        0.4
Production(OOO tons)               295         203        167         221        293         219        123         174          92         99
Sorghhum
Area(00fif.)                       2"5         301        154         341        351         355        344         327         301        344
Yield(tons/fd.)                       1.0        0.75       (.5         0.62        0.66       0.35        0.43       0.5         0.23        0.5
Production(OOO tons)               295         226         77         211        232         124        148         l64          69        172
Groundnuts
Area(OOOfd.)                       177         216        261         424        251         264        217         229         171        262
Yield(tons/fd.)                       1.25       1.25        1.5        0.77        1.2        1.08       0.87        1.2         0.6        0.6
Production(OOO tons)               221         270        392         326        301         285        189         275         103        157
Sonirce :SC'B
EAPNA
9/20/82



SUDAN
GEZIRA REIIABILITATION PRE)iCT
Area/Yields/Production in "With" and "Without" Project Situation
Project Year           Year 0                 Year 1                   Year 2                Year 3                  Year 4                Year 5                     Year 6
Fiscal Year 2/        1982/83                1983/84                  1984/85               1985T86                  1986/87              1987/88                    1988/89
Without      With       Without   With          Without    With        Without    With       Without    With         Without   With           Without       With
Extra Long Staple Cotton
Area ('000 fd)                        320         320          320      320           310        310          310       310         310       310           310      310            310         310
Yield (ton/fd)                          0.5         0.5          0.5      0.5           0.54       0.54         0.54      0.57        0.54       0.6          0.54     0.66            0.54       0.7
Production ('000 tons)                160         160          160      160           167.4    167.4         167.4      176.7       167.4     186 4        167.4   204.6            167.4       217
Medium Staple Cotton
Area ('000 fd)                        120         120          120      120           140        140          150       150         150       150           150      150             150        150
Yield (ton/fd)                          0.57        0.57         0.57     0.57          0.61       0.61         0.61      0.64        0.61       0.68         0.61     0.74            0.61        0.83
Production ('000 tons)                 68.4        68.4         68.4     68.4          85.4       85.4         91.5      96          91.5     102            91.5   111              91.5       124.5
Wheat
Area ('000 fd)                        275         275          300      300           325        325          375       375         400       400           400      400            400         400
Yield (ton/fd)                          0.36        0.36         0.36     0.36          0.39       0.39         0.39      0.43        0.39       0.47         0.39     0.55            0.39        0.65
Production ('000 tons)                 99          99          117      117           126.8    126.8         146.3      161.3       156       176.3         156      220             156        260
Groundnut
Area ('000 fd)                        200         200          200      200           200        200          220       220         220       240           220      240             220        240
Yield (ton/fd)                          0.65        0.65         0.65     0.65          0.7        0.7          0.7       0.75        0.7        0.8          0.7      0.88            0.7         0.95
Production ('000 tons)                130         130          130      130           140        140          154       165         154        192          154      210             154        228
Sorghum
Area ('000 fd)                        300         300          300      300           300        300          300       300         300        300          300      300             300         300
Yield (ton/fd)                          0.45        0.45         0.45     0.45          0.5        0.5          0.5       0.52        0.5        0.55         0.5      0.62            0.5         0.69
Production ('000 tons)                135         135          135      135           150        150          150       156         150        165          150      186             150        207



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Meteorological Data for Wad Medani
Period        J      F      M      A     M      J      J      A    S      0      N      0    Yearly
Rainfall, average (mm)                   1941-75       -     -      -      1    15    27   110   131   52         17      -      -      354
Rainfall, average (mm)                   1971-80       -     -      -      3    13    27    94    96   57          8      1      -      299
Absolute m-ax. daily rainfall (mm)    1941-60          -     -      6    11    48    37   118    71   72    42            7      -
Number of days with rainfall > 1 mm  1941-70           -      -     0.1   0.3   2.5   4.6  10.2  11.0  5.2   3.1   0.2   -               31
Temperature (C)
mean max.                              1941-75    33.4  35.1  38.3  40.8  41.4  39.6  35.8  33.4 35.2  37.8  36.5  33.6                36.7
meanr -in.                             1941-75      14.0, 15.Z  18.3  21.2  24.0  24.7  22.8  22.0 21.8  21.6  18.0  14.5              19.9
average, (max. t min.)/2               1941-75    23.7  25.1  28.3  31.0  32.7  32.1  29.3  27.7 28.5  29.7  27.2  24.1                28.3
absolute max.                          1941-70    40.7  43.5  44.6  46.1  46.2  45.3  43.6  41.0 40.7  41.2  40.,  39.6                 -
absolute min.                          1941-70      5.2   3.3   7.3  12.0  15.6  16.7  18.5  18.0 17.0  13.8   8.7   4.8                -
Radiation, mean (cal/cm2 per day)        1941-75   492   545   583   604   583   562   528   529  554   528   501   480                 541
Sunshine, mean (h)                       1941-70    10.5  10.8  10.5  10.8  10.2   9.3   7.8   7.7  9.3  10.0  10.5  10.6                 9.8
Relative humidity mean (%)
0(.00 GM<:                             1941-70    38    29    22    18    30    48    68    79   72    52    37    40                  44
12.00 S!MT                             1941-70    18    13    10         9    15    23    39    51   42    27         19    19        24
18.00 GMT                              1941-70    30    22    16    15    23    35    55    69   62    45    34    33                 37
Wind speed, mean (m/s)                   1941-70       3.6   4.0   3.6   3.1   3.6   4.5   4.5   4.0  3.1   2.2   3.1   4.0               3.6
Vapour pressure, mean (mb)
06.00 GMT                              1941-70      8.6   7.1   6.9   7.6  13.3  19.8  23.4  25.1 24.4  19.2  ll.h   9.9               14.8
12.00 GMT                              1941-70      8.8   7.1   6.2   6.8  10.9  15.3  19.9  23.4 21.6  15.8  10.9   9.6               13.0  3
18.00 GMT                              1941-70      8.6   7.2   6.5   7.0  11.4  16.0  21.4  25.0 23.8  18.1  11.7   9.6              13.9  x
Evaporation, Eo (Pernan) (mm)            1957-68   177   189   237   256   280   282   244   206  206   204   180   171    2632                 w
Source: Agro-climatological Study in the Arab Countries (1976), except for evaporation data which were supplied by the Gezira
Research Station (GRS)
* GMT = Greenwich Mean Time.



SUDAN
GEZIPA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Water Demand at Sennar for Project Year 5 - Million u'
Crops                 Area(fd.)    J         F       M        A       K        J          J       A         S         0         N         D        Year
Cotton ELS            310,000      224      183      33           -            -         62       175      170       274       275       255       1651
Cotton MS             150,000       23        -       -                                  30        86      113       152       137        85        626
Wheeat                400,000      320       93                                -          -         -        -       103       263       295       1074
Groundnut             240,000        -        -                              290        168       208      222        97         -         -        985
Dura                  300,000        -        -       -       _       _      240        180       273   , 281        131         -         -       1105       a
Fodder                100,000        -        -       -       -        -  Jll            72        82       69        45         -         -        379
Vegetables             501OO0    * 37        40      50      54      59       59         51        43       43        43        38        36        553
Total crop
requirement       1,550,000      604     316       83     54       59      700        563      867       898       845       713       671      6373
Greenbelt domestic                  25       21      25      24      25       24         25        25       24        25        24        25        292
Effective rainfall 2/                -        - _-                    - _  _            250      440       220                                      910
Losses 3/                   -       69       37      12       9       9       80         38        50       78        97        82        77        638
Total at Sennar             -      698        374   120      87      93      804        376       502      780       967       819       773       6393
Note:  1.  Total crop requirements are at field outlet pipes and derived using factors iR Table 2
2.  Effective rainfall equivalent of 78mm or cropped area (840,000 fd.) In July'98; 90 an In August and 44 an In September on 1150,000
cropped area.
3.  Losses are assessed assuming 90% conveyance efficiency.
0.
S             ~~~~~~~~~~~~h j  1



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Monthly Crop Water Requirements (m3/feddan at FOP level)
Crops            J       F       M        A        M        J        J       A       S      0       N      D   Year
Cotton ELS    724    588    105           0        0        0      200    565    548    884    889   822   5325
Cotton MIS     150       -           -        -             -      200    576    753   1016    915   569   4179
Wheat          799    233        0        0        0        0        0       0      0    257    657   737   2683           1
Groundnut        0       0       0        0        0    1207       700    868    924    404         0      0   4103       
Dura             0       0       0        0        0      800     598    910    936    435          0      0   3679
Fodder           0       0       0        0        0    1108      716    010    690    4i4          u      0   3/86
Vegetables    724    793    995    1075    1177    1184    1027    864    866    859              756   714  11053
Note: 1.  Crop requirements are at field outlet pipe and take into account the staggered planting
(chart V) dates and the requirements for initial irrigation.
2.  Crop requirements are calculated using the crop factors based on GRS field measurements
(CRS 1976) and the Penman EO at Wad Medani.                                                                  D Z
N) 4



- 71 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
S UDANh
Gezira Rehabilitation Project
RESEARCH PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
1.        An agricultural research program was started in Gezira in 1918 to
improve cotton production. The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC),
established in 1967, under the direct responsibility of the Minister of
Agriculture, has expanded the research programs to cover cotton, wheat,
sorghum, groundnuts, millet, sesame, fruits and vegetables. Research is
also conduLcted on soil and water management, soil fertility, plant
protection and weed control. Limited research is conducted on techniques
for transferring technology, agricultural machinery, seed production and
introduction, farming systems and animal husbandry.
2.        The Project would provide funds to upgrade facilities at the
Gezira Research Station in Wad Medani, and would modernize three
sub-stations at Maatug, Haj Abdullah, and Turabi, allowing for testing
newly dev2loped technology under expanded soil and climate conditions. The
Project would support conducting agronomic trials on farmers fields in
Musallamya and Almunsi groups, and in collecting socio-economic data on
factors affecting adoption of recommended practices in the Project area.
ARC staff would participate in monthly workshops designed to train subject
matter specialists and SGB field inspectors.  The Project would provide
special support to research projects on crop rotation, alternative cropping
patterns, and forage crops. More specifically, the project would provide
support to the following:
3.        Cotton.  Project activities would support applied research on the
improvement of cotton grown in the Gezira scheme in the following areas:
(a) Selection and introduction of cultivars resistant to insects and
diseases, mainly whitefly, bollworms and jassids and bacterial blight and
wilt. The Project would provide equipment, laboratory instruments and
field support to improve cotton germplasm, strengthen the hybridization
program and test new cultivars under different sites; (b) Weed Control.
Study of pre-sowing, pre-emergence, and post-emergence herbicides for
annual and perennial weeds.  The integration of cultural and chemical
control, timing and methods of herbicide application and the interaction
between soils and herbicides would be studied; (c) Crop Water Management.
Evaluation of present frequency and intervals of irrigation and development
of irrigation models capable of saving water and improving lint quality.
Other research activities would include crop fertilization, insect pest
control and the interaction between yield, rotation and incremental field
inputs; (d)  Mechanization.  Assessment of the effect of farm machinery on
land preparation, crop performance and yields. This would include
investigating the contribution of different generations of farm machinery,
mechanical harvesters and associated tools and implements; (e) Crop
protection.  Evaluation of alternative pest control and management systems.



- 72-                        ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
4.        Groundnuts.  The Project would support research on the
improvement of groundnuts to: (a) identify optimum plant populations and
seeding rates; (b) assess the impact of rotation, crop sequence and
nutritional requirements of the crop. This is to be investigated along
with nitrogen fixation using local rhizobia; (c) study water requirement,
water rates, and irrigation intervals (special emphasis would be on
utilization of rainfall during July, August and September); (d) study the
occurrence of aflatoxin, a serious problem caused by A. flavis group fungi,
reducing quality of the crop and its marketability; (e) select promising
cultivars and improve the performance of currently grown varieties (Ashford
and MH 383); and (f) assess mechanical harvesting methods, especially
lifting time and crop digging needed to determine proper foods and timing
for harvesting and threshing.
5.        Wheat.  Project aclcivities would include support for research
aimed at: (a) selecting varieties suitable to the growing conditions in
Gezira, including short maturing, and drought and heat tolerant cultivars;
(b) assessing different methods of land preparation, their cost,
suitability and effect on yield; (c) studying the impact of the main
ecological zones on sowing date, water requirement, and fertilizer
requirements; (d) studying the main agronomic factors affezting yield
including rotation, weed control, population density and seed treatment;
(e) surveying the main insect: and disease hazards and' developing a suitable
control strategy based on breeding, cultural practices and application of
chemicals.
6.        Sorghum.  The research program has received some support from
ICRISAT but research on irrigated sorghum requires considerable
strengthening, with focus on breeding, weed control, fertilizer
requirement, population and spacing, sowing date, water requirement in
various locations and the control of charcoal (rut disease), pests (mainly
weaver birds) and stemborer.
7.        On-Farm trials would be conducted on Farmers' fields to verify
recommended technology under natural production conditions and provide
adequate resources for field trials on several blocks in dif'ferent
agro-climatic zones. Farmers would be encouraged to evaluate the
technology and determine its suitability to their condition at this stage.
8.        Project staff would assist SGB field production pe!rsonnel through
regular field training, workshops and seminars, and preparation of
extension materials and research reports about problems affecting crop
production.
9.        Strengthening of farming system research focusing on
socio-economic factors affecting adoption of recommended technology,
integration of livestock with crop production and alternative cropping
patterns suitable to local needs, resources and available technological
packages would also be financed under the Project.
10.       Crop rotation and alternative cropping patterns suitable to local
conditions of soil and water availability.



- 73-                        ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM
1.        Annual Work Programs (AWPs) would be submitted by the Project
entities, SGB, MOAI(I), ARC, BNHP, SPTC and RWA and would cover all Project
components. Each AWP shall provide documentation, satisfactory to the
Association, with respect to the following:
(i)   a detailed description of the work to be performed, including the
objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 1, the schedules of activities, equipment
requirements, staffing arrangements and training plans, and the
distribution of responsibilities for each item included in the
AWP;
(ii)   a budget for the period covered setting forth:
(a)     the proposed capital expenditure;
(b)     all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributed to activities under the Project, together with
a breakdown of predevelopment and incremental
expenditures;
(c)     a comparision of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expenditures
for the previous year;
(d)     a list of all staff employed or to be employed on a
fulltime basis by Project entities with respect to the
Project; and
(e)     a list of proposed expenditures for technical services,
studies and training;
(iii)   a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow projections
including the GOS contributions to the Project account and the
dividend payable to GOS on its capital in SGB.
2.        Each AWP would be supported by the following information, as may
be relevant:
(i)   a detailed assessment of the previous year's performance;
(ii)   a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on previous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions;



- 74 -                      ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(iii)   the proposed training program; and
(iv)   GOS budgetary provision for fuel, annual farm inputs, maintenance
of the irrigation system and subventions for the Project entities
along with the basis on which such allocations have been made,
including assumptions regarding external donor support for
imported inputs.
3.        A detailed review of the following items which impinge on Project
implementation:
(a)   Status of the Sennar and Roseires dams, with particular regard to
safety and operating regulations and maintenance requirements,
and the Government-s: program for maintenance of the dams;
(b)   Progress in establishing the cost recovery system and
determining accurate costs for various recoverable items of
expenditure, including agricultural machinery hire rates and
adoption of adequate! interest rates; and
(c)   Performance in the areas of pricing, debt recovery, agricultural
machinery operations and tenant incomes during the preceding year
and an assessment of the prospects for the ensuing year.
(d)   The degree of integration achieved in the implementation of the
schistosomiasis and rural water supply components and selection
of innovative items for financing under the former component.
4.        The criteria upon which the Associatioi's approval of a proposed
AWP would be based on:
(i)   the adequacy of such programs for implementing basic Project
objectives consistent with requirements of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(ii)   the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources to implement and sustain the physical
targets set for the ensuing Project year.



- 75 -
Sl9                                                       ANNFX 8
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PRO6JEC7
Details of Technical Assistance and Consultants Services Provided Urder the Project
b/d/                                   b/d/
Expected LerEth              Rate                             Total Costs
Ccmponent         Expertise of Consultant           of Assigrment at  Foreign c/          Local et   In IS Dollars    In Pounds Suaarese
1. Irrigation          Operation arid Maintenance of          12              10.6        20% of Foreign      152.6                 198.4
Canal Systans
Weed Eradication                       3                                               38.2                   49.6
Short tens-maiscellaneso               6                                               76.3                  99.2
2. Irainage            Drainage Design                        26               -                5.3           106.9                  138.9
3. Agricultural        Agricultural Machinery                 24              10.6        2D% of Foreign      305.3                  396.9
Madlinery ard        Operation
Equipment
4. Fxtension, Farmner  Seea Technologist                      12               8.5                            122.1                 158.7
Trainirg aril     Extension Specialist                    6              10.6                             76.3                  99.2
Research
5. Wnrkshnps anl       Wormonlop Matnagement Advisor          12                                              152.6                 198.4
Fuel Supply
6.  Gezira Light       Railway Operations Advisor              6                                              76.3                   99.2
Railwy            Track Mainterance Advisor              18                                              229.0                 297.6
WIorlolop and Loconotive               18                                             229.0                  297.6
Repair Advisor
7. Ginneries, Cotton   Renovation Works Consultant            24                                             305.3                  396.9
Iai ling aid        Erigineer
Storage           Saw Gin Consultant Ergineer            18                                              229.0                  297.6
8.  ehabilitatlon      Agricultural Econsmist                 39                                              496.1                 644.9
Project Manageient Ergineerirg Advisor                   63               -                5.3           256.8                 333.9
Unit               Procurement Advisor                   39              10.6        20% of Foreign      496.1                 644.9
Other                                 60                                              763.2                 992.1
9.  SGB Management      Manager                                60                                             763.2                  992.1
Information       Systems Analysis Department            48                                             610.6                  793.7
Sye tea             Mnager
Monitorirg, Evaluatirg and            48                                              610.6                  793.7
Reportirg Departreit Manager
10. Training            Trainirg Specialist                    48              9.5                            549.5                  714.4
11. lTainirg aid        Finarcial Advisor                      60             10.6                            763.2                  992.1
Technical         Supply & Inventory Managaemnt Advisor  36              8.5                             366.3                 476.2
Assistane         OCrrFarm Water Managenent Specialists  32             10.6                "            407.0                 529.2
Soil Scientist                        30               -                1.0            22.0                   28.6
12. Studies             Studies Preparation Advisor             3               -                5.3            12.2                  15.9
Initial Survey                         4             10.6         20% of Foreign       50.9                   66.1
30               -               5.3           122.3                  159.0
Intersive Survey                       6             10.6         20% of Foreign       76.3                   99.2
32              -                5.3           130.5                  169.6
Credit                                 2             10.6         20% of Foreign       25.4                   33.1
20              -                5.3            81.5                  106.0
Marketirg                             15               -                5.3            61.2                   79.5
Agricultural Machinery                 2             10.6         20% of Foreigi       25.4                   33.1
Private Sector                        15               -                5.3            61.2                   79.5
Livestock                             22               -                5.3            89.7                  116.6
Tenancy                                3             10.6         23% of Foreign       38.2                    49.6
7              -                5.3            28.5                    37.1
Miscellaneous                          3             10.6         23% of Foreign       38.2                    49.6
12              -                5.3            48.9                    63.6
Project Preparation Fhase IT          80             10.6         20% of Foreign    1,017.6                 1,322.9
TOtAlS                      986 mman maoths                             S  9,615.4           LSd  12,499.5
AVERACE CCST PER MA.N 143NI                                                      $      9.7 f/        L.d      12.7 f/
a/ In smths.
b/  All monetary mkouts in -000s per month.
c/ in U.S. Iollars.
1/ At basellne cost, March 1983.
et All local asnunts are in Sudanese Ponds.
ft Including salary, costs, fees, international travel (for eKpatriate consultants) ard subsistenre.
03/08/82



-76 -                       ANNEX 9
Page I of 3
SUDAN
Gezira Rehabilitation Project
STUDIES
I. Background
1.        The Gezira Rehabilitation Project would be expected to result in
the rehabilitation of the existing scheme through a variety of major
capital investments without altering the existing production and tenancy
system.  The present system, which is basically the teniancy system as
designed in the 1920s would be continued even though it is well recognized
that the production operations on the scheme have been considerably altered
in the last decade.
2.         Considerable changes would have to be made in the existing
production system to adjust SG]3's and the Government's institutional
frameworks to the changing production environment of the scheme.  More
adequate incentive and compensation methods would have to be defined for
the laborers and tenants actually working the tenancies.  The tenancy sizes
would also have to be redefine(i and the role of the private agricultural
machinery sector reconsidered. Informal and formal marketing and credit
systems would have to b  coordinated and reformulated and solutions found
for the large herds of livestock presently kept on the scheme.  However,
little is known about many of t:he unofficial activities taking place on the
scheme, and the broad empirical, and analytical information ne;eded to shape
new policy recommendations adequately is lacking.  The studies financed
under this component, therefore, would be directed to preparing the
required information base and present policy recommendations which would be
discussed and acted upon at mid-term review of the proposed Project and
before start-up of the follow-up modernization phase.  The studies would be
contracted to Sudanese research organizations withl expatriate assistance as
necessary. They would be supervised by an international recruited
agricultural economist located in the Rehabilitation Project Management
Unit.
II. Studies Included in the Component
3.        Desk Reviews.  A desk review of existing literature would be
carried out under a PPF. This will avoid duplicating existing data, and
permit tighter definition of the terms of reference of the studies.
4.         Initial Survey.  The initial survey, to be carried cut at the
beginning of Project year 1, would cover approximately 750 households.
Its objective would be to obtain broad demographic:, occupational and
agricultural data, and define the basic categories to be surveyed in the
intensive study.



- 77 -                     ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
5.        Intensive Study.  An intensive study of approximately 200
households, stratified into the basic categories of tenant, sharecropper,
permanent laborer and migrant laborer, would be carried out over a crop
year, comprising several visits. It would yield information on occupation,
sources of income, cropping patterns and use of inputs and marketing,
yields, use of credit, crop marketing, livestock, tenancy and land use
patterns and attitudes towards the present production and tenancy system.
Experts from the specialized studies would participate in this study, which
would yield the bulk of field data for them. The study would ideally take
place from the middle of Project year I to the middle of Project year 2,
with analysis continuing until the end of Project year 2. All the
specialized studies except the tenancy study would also be complete by the
end of Prcject year 2.
6.        Credit Study.  The study would analyze the credit and debt
situation in the formal and informal sector, analyze present and future
seasonal credit requirements, analyze long-term credit requirements and
examine the potential role of SGB, ABS, co-operatives and Tenants' Union in
supplying and supervising credit to tenants.
7.        Marketing Study.  The study would make an analysis of the present
mnarketing situation and possible constraints. In particular it would
concentral:e on marketing arrangements for wheat and groundnut. Among
others it would examine Government pricing policies, price developments,
subsidies and marketing policies; it would study marketing and processing
costs, volumes traded and grading procedures.                              x
8.         Study on the Integration of Livestock on the Scheme.  The main
objective of the livestock study would be to provide policy recommendations
how best to integrate livestock into the cropping pattern of Gezira. After
an analysis of its present role, recommendations would be made on
introduction of fodder crops, use of crop residues, measures necessary to
improve livestock productivity and marketing arrangements.
9.        Study on the Role of the Private Sector in Agricultural
Mechanization. The purpose of this study would be to get a better insight
into the present capability of the private sector (including co-operatives)
in the provision of mechanization services in the Gezira scheme. The study
would compare the quality of services, present and potential, with those of
SGB, and investigate whether the private sector can be strengthened in
order to provide timely and reliable services of a good quality and at
reasonable costs to the tenants of the scheme.
10.       Tenancy Study.  The aim of the tenancy study, drawing largely on
the data and analysis of the other studies, would be to make policy
recommendations on changes in the tenurial system of the scheme, including
tenancy size, ownership/usufruct rights of tenants and sharecroppers, and
the future role of SGB, MOAI(I) and tenants in agricultural operations. It
should be completed by the middle of Project year 3.



- 78 -                     ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
11.        On completion of the studies, detailed discussions on their
recommendations would take place with concerned GOS officials, and the
appropriate policy recommendations would be developed by the end of Project
year 3.
12.       Provision has been made for the preparation of a modernization
program through funding of technical services (80 man months).



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training
1.        SGB employs over 2,300 professional and technical staff, 9,000
unclassified staff and over 10,000 unskilled personnel at different times
of the year. MOAI(I) has over 2,500 permanent staff responsible for water
management and maintenance of irrigation works. Both are thus large,
complex organizations. Most positions have been established for many
years; because of the prestige of Gezira and a relatively attractive
package of salary, housing, pension and other allowances staff turnover has
been low, and most senior staff are well experienced. At technical and
operator level too there are fewer shortages than in other schemes.
2.        There are four vocational training centers in addition to the El
Harag College of Agriculture and Gezira University in the Project area; all
of their programs can be shaped to meet the needs of the scheme, which is
by far t]ae largest employer. SGB has responsibility for social affairs in
the schemae and employs 130 welfare workers on education. It also has a
radio production network, and joint control over the production of certain
television programs broadcast from the local TV station at Wad Medani. TV
sets are found in most villages, and many TV clubs have been established.
However, the quality of production is often poor. Thus, a good basis
already exists on which to build up the necessary information, adult
education and training activities. SGB is in the unusual situation of
having a large measure of control over many of the information sources on
which the population depends.
3.        However, over the past 10 years, because of competing pressures
for scarce resources from other schemes in Sudan, and for other reasons,
training, both external and in-house, has ceased to keep pace with the
evolving needs of Gezira. A special feature of the scheme is the high age
profile of senior staff. Over 85% of present staff at group level or above
will have reached pensionable age by 1988. Thus there is a particular need
to train staff for managerial positions. The same situation applies to
some other categories of staff, including station masters and water
gaffirs." Training and extension for the farming population of Gezira has
similarly failed to keep pace with the evolution of the scheme; the system
is oriented towards inspection and control of cotton production, rather
than extension of improved techniques for all crops in the rotation.



- 80 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
Training Objectives
4.         The objectives of the component are: (i) to establish mechanisms
for effective internal training within SGB; (ii) to develop appropriate
skills training in artisan fields and fund external training in areas which
cannot be provided through supplier contracts; (iii) to train staff whose
work would be reoriented through the Project (agricultural staff through
the new emphasis on extension, financial staff through the introduction of
individual accounts and the strengthening of management information
systems; and (iv) to strengthen the effectiveness of mass media and local
training institutions. Most training would continue to be carried out
through existing training programs, which would be upgraded.
Components
5.         (i)  Detailed training plans for each department would be
prepared with expatriate assistance under a PPF for the first two years of
the Project period, and overall training requirements would be defined for
the Rehabilitation period.
(ii)  The present training section within personnel whose present
function is limited to placing candidates for external training, would be
abolished, to be replaced by a new section in the Deputy Managing
Director's office, headed by an internationally recruited training
specialist, and with responsibility for external t:raining, cocrdination and
quality control. Training office positions would be established in each of
the four divisions.
(iii) A total of 42 man-months of technical assistance from a
training firm would be provided to help with the cetailed planning
exercise, introduction of new t:raining systems, and provide on-the-job
training in production of training and information materials.
(iv) Table 1 provides an indication of the extent of formal
training needed in the major fieslds of administration, finance, engineering
and agriculture in SGB. This would be in addition to training currently
supplied through the SGB budget. The estimates would be revised after the
detailed training programs are prepared, and also revised annually. The
emphasis in finance and adminisliration would be on office management,
management information, accounts, budgeting, auditing and storekeeping. In
engineering it would be on upgrading existing and training new mechanical
staff in the workshops and ginneries, and training the new traztor drivers
needed under the Project. In agriculture it would involve equipping
existing staff for a more effect:ive extension role, paying mores attention
to non-cotton crops and improving field water management. There would be
subject matter specialist trainiJng, and training in horticulture, an area
of growing importance. Training programs for livestock services, whether
they are to be handled by SGB or another body, would be prepared under the
livestock study by the end of Project year 3.



- 81 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(v) Media production capacity for adult education and extension
would be expanded by provision of new sound recording and editing equipment
for the radio program unit, and the establishment of a small TV production
unit. A mobile TV repair unit would be provided and training in TV and
generator. repair provided through it.
(vi) A two-room, non-residential training center would be
established at SGB neadquarters, and training equipment would be provided.
The classroom at Meringen would be renovated and a training shed attached
to the workshop; a new classroom would be provided at Hassa Heissa.
(vi) For irrigation, training would be provided in three areas:
(a) Irrigation operation and maintenance; (b) workshop and stores
administration; (c) on-farm water management to SGB. In addition to
technical assistance for training in these three fields, study tours would
be provided (total 39 man-months to MOAI(I) and 36 man-months to SGB water
management officials). The existing MOAI(I) training programs for
inservice training of technical staff and refresher training of water
gaffirs on minor canal regulation would be carried out by MOAI(I) with
technical assistance.
(vii) Training for telecommunications and GLR would be provided
under suppliers' contracts, and, for GLR, through their in-house programs.
For filter maintenance tender the water supply component it would be
provided through technical assistance, and through the National Water
Administration in Khartoum.
Table 1
Estimated Provision for Incremental Course Attendance
In-House         In-Country              External
Courses           Courses                      Short Course
m/wks            m/mths       Formal   Regional  Elsewhere
m/yrs    m/mths      months
Administration       848               154           2          19         16
Finance              880                10          50           8          6
Engineering        2,140                50          20          32         23
Agriculture           81               164          13          14          2
Note: Excludes on-going training programs.



- 82 -                     ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
Gezira Rehabilitation Pro-ject
Documents available on Project Files
1.        The preparation report produced by consultantsa/ is available in
six volumes. Its contents are as follows:
Volume I
Main report
Volume II
Annex A - The Gezira Scheme: Background, Physical
Conditions, and Human Resources
Annex B - Agricult:ure
Volume III
Annex C - Markets, Marketing Structures,
and Prices
Annex D - The Tenant and Agricultural Labour
Volume IV
Annex E - Irrigation and Drainage
Annex F - Cotton Ginning Facilities
Volume V
Annex G - Infrastructure
Annex H - Hlousing, Utilities, and Health
Annex I - Workshops and Maintenance Facilities
Volume VI
Annex J - Organization and Management
Annex K - Pilot Farm and Schemes
Annex L - Further Studies
Annex M - Project Costs, Benefits, and Evaluation
a/ Euroconsult (the Netherlands) in collaboration with Sir Alexander Gibb
(UK) and TCS (Sudan).



- 83 -                     ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
In addition, separate volumes were prepared on Training and on the
establishmaent of a computerised Management Information System.
2.        Background information on the institutional and policy changes
which preceeded the Rehabilitation Project is contained in the following
documents:
(i)   Agricultural Rehabilitation Program    -  President's Report.
IDA Credit 1000-SU:
March 1980.
(ii)   Sudan: Incentives for Irrigated Cotton  - Progress towards Reform
IBRD Rep.No.3810-SU
May 1982.
(iii)   Sudan:  Irrigation Sub-Sector             -  Administrative Review
Booker Agricultural
International September
1980.
(iv)   Study of Cost Recovery in the Irrigated Agricultural Sector (4
volumes) Sudan Cost Recovery Committee October 1980.
(v)   Study of Cotton Marketing                 -  Sudan Cotton Marketing
Study Group, May 1981.
(vi)   Sudan:  Investing for Economic            -  IDA Report No. 3551-a
Stabilization and Structural Change         February 1982
3.        The contents of the Implementation Volume would be as follows:
Annex 1         Agriculture
- Project Area
- Production System
- Farm Machinery
Annex II        Irrigation and Drainage
- Present Situation
- Project Proposals
- Operation and Maintenance
- Organization and Implementation
Annex III       Project Infrastructures
- Telecommunications
- Roads
- Ginneries
- Housing



- 84 -                      ANNEX 1i
Page 3 of 3
- Health
- Rural Water Supply
Annex IV        Instituticnal Base
- Research and Extension
- Training
- Studies
Annex V         Costs
- Unit Costs and Price Projections
- Project Cost Tables
- Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
Annex VI        Implementation
- General Arrangements
- Procurement Packages
Annex VII       Economic Analysis



SUDAN
GEZIRA REIABILITATION PROJECT - PROJECT HANAGENENT
|MinIster o  Agriculture and Irrigation
Project Management Committee
Members
Director, Rehabilitation Project
MD, SGB                                                                                  Management Unit (Ex-Officio Under
MD, ARC                                                                                  Secretary, MOAT and Convener, PMC)
Dir. BNHP
MD, SPTC
Dir., RWA, Central Region
Under Secretary of:                                Procurement Officer                                                                                       eering Specialis                    Agricultural Econ
1. Finance and National Planning
2. MOAI (Irrigation)
3. Health
4. Transport and Communications                    Project Procurement         Procurement                                                                    Subjects
Committee        _      Adviser                                                         Irrigation                                         Stde,Traning
Minister of Housing, Construction                                                                                                                 Drainage                                                      MIS
and Public Utilities, Central                                                                                            __Pump Stations
Region.                                                   Members                                              _Sub jects                        Sennar Dam
Dy. MD, SCB                                                                                        Extension, Farmer Training and                Agricultural Machinery and
Technical                                         Research                                     Equipment
Reps. of:                                      Health                                        Workshop & Fuel Supply
--4  MOAI(I)                                   Rural Water Supply                            Vehicles
_   SGB                                                 .                                    Roads
Port Sudan                        RUA                                                                                           Telecommunications
Office Manager                       BNHP                                                                                         Gezira Light Railway
-I   fl -   SPTC                                                                             Staff Housing
I   I                    ~~~~~~~ARC                                                                                       _      
Offife Support
Office MHanager~
Offc  Support                            j                                                                                         Office Support|                                             I
1    2 Assistants                                                                                                                AssIItInt
| 1 Messenger       I                                                                                                            |3 Assistants
1 Secretary
3 Typists
_      _    _ OfficeZSupport   [                                                            2 Messengers
| I Secretary      |[{|
4 Typists
|I Messenger



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Simplified Organi9.ram
'Z-H Co dcet                                                           M Mimn,-st    t
Mmik"y  d T,                                                                                               Mimi-          dA9,i-1t-                                                                                                           ,M'y M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uro,Scrtay  lu  Nl
C_     11I          ,.  Ec-                            .i                                                                                                          -'                                                                                                                                                               r i               t 
Ministry    of   Transport   7   M inistrv    of   FinElzct                                                           Ministry    Of   Agriculture                                                                                                   M inistrv   OS                                        Regilna o
adCommunca io   rcati;om        -.n cnmcPanig=dIrqtor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e hGvrmn
.~~~6-11'.'d R.:-h                                                         Di,~~~~~~*                                  irctrDrrra
..   _l   _                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............
............................... .......                            .                                                                                                                                                                      A      t* jtitr Adira
Sud=n Publiw T.I.tc P=lic
Coctrel~~ ~ ~       ~ committe  Maragar                                  Diiio
s                       Irrigatis  ~~~~~~Aff.i,,
l_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   ...........                                                                                                                      ........    ...* .e  6 ...   >'iP
FimId Admi-istration        _GEtra -Mecegil,
W   Tx   +i O  is iieJlls   r    I           i                                  7    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ | ~~P15clc Corpocaticr for                                               3
;non  tt                                                                                             MEnc.l                    -~ t           n        I    niee                                Eocthmovc,rg             
Block   D -itree                _Sb diuieicnrl Eginer                                                                                                   a 3t P        j
-d-                   4d                                                                   L                                        InsP=top     h-iecir_  S clio oEr  ic |.    =iti-er d
Drector of Dame
e r            H   ~~~~~~*LrtE Control                                                                                     W
1/ R.htibilittio-  Pro-jct M-c      -mect Dolt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                _ _        Productin  Coo        rdinarioc
World G-nk-24100



- 87 -
CHART  III
SUDAN
GEZIRA REKABILITATION PROJECT
Sudan Gezira Board - Organization Structure
C~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ enar eg Factotoies
I anspa t 
Traimmg                                           Deputy Mana.ging     |E.t.nsi.. and  
D  rector                                                  D irector                                                  D-etoe Diieto
Adm-st-aA E d Pnegeineeting                                                                                            Agriealtrca Bc Fk nnanccnd
D..is-on                                                                                                             Division                                                  o Divisi-n
P-rsnnl Depan-et                                                                                                                                 I
G-,.zr Light R.1-wy                                                  IF,.Id Ad-iw.trti.n                                                    -ea tmeta
Cin-gc Factorhs                                            _         I
Socla S--ics                                                                                        Depa mentMage
T,.-p.rt                                     -Civi  Engminerig                               i
IMechamca  Engme--ig                     Group Ma-g-er
0- Agricult-rl Eng91--lg
-Eletrical Engineer-g|
Workshop/Mainteanc
_Apphled Engmeering Research           Block Inspecton
|  Fmied Inspecton-
VWorld Eank-24101



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOAI (I) - Organization Structure
Min.itey of Ag,iu.Itu. nad IrIpation tii.. t.onl
MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
MINISTER OF STATE FOR IRRIGATION
|    PERMANENT JOINT      OG NERALIC CORPORATION                                                            GENRPLANNING AND D     OINRLRE RA
TECHNOCAL COMMITTEE                 F"IRR IRRIGATFON VORKS SNOEI SECRETWRATE  AN  DMO RJC
FOR NILE WATERS                    AND EARTH MOVING                DIE
AiCL AD                    IRGENERAL DIECTORATE                                             D     O  OF G RO CT RATE  OF             I I                                 GENERAL DIRECTWITE O
OF IRRIGATION AFFAIAS                         A                    DILE WATER AND DAMS                                                                    OF PROJECTE  HR
_7HANICALA'ND  RRROA ILUTY DIR EC T
Jr~~~~ _PR.l                                                                                                            I 
<  IICL                     DIRSREICG, iTON     l           DMINTION  I O                      IETHO                       ETRO                                DIROECTOR                   HYDRAULIC RESEARC
EPRMETJ(O S, Ml                                                                                  
DEPUTY DIRECTO                  DEPUTY DIREC OR                      ROADDEPUTY DIRECTOR 
ZIRA          MANAG                        ~~~~~~~~CONSTRUCTION                                                                CONSTRUCTIONDEUYIRCO
GEIR                           MAAIL                             UNITC'                                                                          SUPEIFRV SIGN                      DESIGNS
4- Divitioca                    2-Divisions                                                                                        NGI
-13- Subdivisiops          |-10- SniT onI                                                                                           1/ JtsRon-ibn fo, op-tati-n,and mainenance-of Sennorand Roseires dams.
41 - S-aio-t                     2 - S-cain 2a                                                                                         Rescom-ibl$ Im po,cn  implamaneatinn
3J Reacensible fo mainrenonce of m-cfnnl t5cuimnn! and
41 Tc bE est.blb,lld .eder the PrcjOct.
W-tld Bank-24102



SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Anticipated Crop Rotation and Cropped Areas in the
Gezira Scheme at the End of the Rehabilitation Period
Feddan ('OCO)
1,500                                                                                                                                   MI7 /  V7  -  -  -
//0 77 / //                                                     77r // // 7/                                               7 /7t /7 7/Ahet                              V
777/   /77  I    II        77/7/77/                                                    /  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ground-nut~
7/        /              Cotton                          l//  77  /                                  // WVheat 
/o  //  //7/                                                   7777         7/LI 77/7,  7 7/L
7/ Raiv Season      (460,000 mm ddan) Fd/l 7721 7/                                                                        / /
//  //  7/  77                  7/ /7  //  //                                              7   7/ 7   . /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/7/  ~~~~~~~~~  -   ~~~~~~~,--  /   /77/77                                             7/7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PhilIlipesnara
1,000  ~~~~~  ~~  7/  /7                            /  77 ~~~~~Ground-nut                                   77/7          
/7  /7  /7  /7          ~~Wheat                   a         441**                                                 / //
"~~ ~/  '"  '7  ~    (400,000 Feddan)               "    '74/'   "                                                      /"'
'~~~ "~~~~ "' 7/      ""  ""  ""A77                                                   7   7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cotton                                     G
/7  7/  7/  /7                          / ~~~~~~~~~~   O~ura/7 //7 7
// Ground-nut/7/ " 7" /                                                                                                      /
500              (240,000 Feddanl/ 7   Phillipesara                                                                             7//         A/     -- - 
,'r 7                                -                    /       7//
Dura                                                                                 I~~~~~7    /A                          Wheat 7
(300,000 Feddan/7  7/77Cotton/
I 774 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~7 // /  77
L~j    ainvSeasn (00 -400  m Ranfal)7Wrld/ank7415



- 90 -
CHART VI
SUDAN
GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year 0           Year I            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4           Year 5
ITEMS                                             1984              1985              1986              1987             1988
1 2 34 134           2   3  4          2 3 4 132                           2       4        2  34
1. Irrigation System                                               .                                I t
- Gates, Regulators and Equipment                                                  , , _. - \  -
- Civil Works/Erection
2. Drainage System                                           _
3, Pumping Station
- Equipment and Spares                          _         ,    ,-
-Civil Works/installation                                                     .\
4. Sennar Dam                                         .  .
6. Agricultural Machinery
7. Incremental Farm Inputs
8. Extension, Farmer Training Research                                             |\I 
-Civil Works                                               i
-Equipment and Shares                                                 -   -   -         -  -,                    I
9. Workshops and/Fuel Supply                                               -   -  --         -   -   -       1        
10. Vehicles                                                                                           - rrt
11. Road Maintenance                                                        -        -       -   -                                   _
12. Telecommunications
13. Gezira Light Railway                                                                                   -\
- Civil Works                                          r      \}1tf                                                                le
-1 Machinery and Equipment                     |7 *t-
14. Ginneries                                                          \                >                 t\                 .               l{
- Modernization                                                                             -                     -        -  - _-          -
- New Ginneries                                     '\--    "                                        \\                           |
15. Schistosomiasis Program
- Drugs                                                                                                                A
- Molluscicides                                                             --
16. Rural Water Supply                                                      -
17. Staff Housing                                                           -   -   -
18. Project ED'S Office Equipment
- Technical Services                              1-
19. SGB Management Information System
10. Training and Technical Assistance
21. StudiesA
Key
Procurement and tendering ending with award.
Delive,y of machinery and equipment.
Construction and/or installation of equipment.
-  Consultant services.
*       Issue of tender documents.
//'//////  Rainy Season.
Note: Details are pro'ided in the relevant sections at the
Implementatiorn Volume.
World Bank-24247



-25-       S  U  D  A N                      MILES9    IU              200         300                                                       252
GEZIRA  REHABILITATION                          o             2L0    3GG    4GD  -G0                          :
PROJECT                                                                                               ---
Location of Project Area                                                                 .
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
{   Inn GATION SCHEMES                                        ARAB    REPUBLIC   OF   EGYPT
:= ERIVERS. PEEFNNIAL'SEASONAL
-1-   DAMS                                                                     fJ                                     ;; Vl;zi
- - -RD--  VINCIAL  BOUN4DARIE5  S 
-INTERNATIOINAL BOUNDARIES
20                   i         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A/ O) R T H E R A/                               A'  E 
2U,
-2cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
i                __L_ ~~----- -----t                         <              -- 
0HI2~~~~~~~~~~~~SAYS~~~~~~~~                                 -d- a112  I   -
~~~E*-1'                                                                                         , F Z   A   '    - 
y_TERNATIONAL 300N0EI ,                                             ,., !  .      F ___   1  R A  ,HM EL GIRSA
0   AlT         RNOR H RNI%                                                            E
0  A    R    F    UJ    R             N                        B-Ra  f    Ed D.  ~  =     =         G reX
8 Geneinar<>_< Z)~~F EF-sher    J         0 KO    D   O   F  A   N   r        dy               CE/       / 
*gi                        1-'E  .u               .R
CHAD                                                               KOr,mo                'BeKos
t {~~~  | DuW~Nyca                                                          'n,                    \Z\AKL 
\_           \           <'  /5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  U  r // E  R  A/\/ )  , rsisN4 
/5  0   U   T  H   F           B b       n.sa          aul                   kF> 
I               ~~~~~~~~~~I ShKenugi                            nk                            (
/     \ ~~~~D  A  R  F  lJ  R                  K' OR D             F A  A/,t                      :/   
- - - - -                                                                      )          E  T H I O P I A
it
_I-                                  JAESaW,            -.. elnf
C-IH f/A Z A Z              ,               
Is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                           4t\x
CFNTRAL  AFRICAN                J\< E ~Ooni E  Z   '\-> U  N  G    0 
R EP UB L IC                                    t     ubk__          
(                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.NOR .HER                           \ - 3  1 r  ES T E R                         E A S T E R N
;g     D    A    Rs  J    I       --i   R  v EBnra  EdDC,ein                           U T O R / A    b  E     U, A T O R /A          5
\GeEeinSJ,..-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,-  0                        'b
9  >                         \<              y/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-> ~~~~~~ To,lt\  X         --
.  <   F R  4          ~~~~~~~~~R EP UB L IC   O F  ZA I RE     \    -iue                      lt=rxra 
2 15=6,2    K                          D  h      t      
: i  ~  ';  '>: = - _i  :  xeDDnce vI Mch Oou        El  beid,                            I       33  






IBRD 16494
IARAB REPUBLIC -OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNF 15821
EGYPT                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUDAN
7  ~ ~ ~~~(HWA,ECPSA,>.                                                                                                                                                                          GEZIRA AND MANAGIL
CHAD!          HEAM    u,1SV                                                              ~-~I
P                                                                                              ,.  N'~~~~~~~~~o-                                                      IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM
S U DAN,                 NI'                                                      /      N&"                                          A''                                                                                                  Ca-ls
['A            -      ~~~~ETHIOIPIA                                      /       4'<-/                                                                                                                                                '- GA -      -OUr  Lghl R. ways
CENTRALZ..,                                                         'UAW(A-AAe                                                                                                                                                                '--SAa   ala
AFRIAN I,                                                                                                                                                         ~" ~                                                                               liigasia  PA-rplg sasfia-
:k2~~~j'-7    &j7&/'~~~~~~~4#x~~~6\  ~~'j    /        ~        ~       ~       ~             Prapased Syphan
ZAIRE            ABSAD   KENYAJ                                                       A                                                                                                                                                           Drainaga PA-p SBt5i,rns
I/                                                                           *~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sypisas Under Canals
/AAA~~~daAAkAAarrAwAA,rA(rAA~~~~~~~~~~                                                -                            A"   A5'~~~~~'    A         11        22         32          -  -   Molar Drains fsdstingaja  D,ws Exstm
TA A AWl HA b,w pAnawA ArAQA        'AN\~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                ip        20         3
UAAAAAWAaAQ,AAAAWAWWAT     'AN                       -A                                   a                        -                                                          --  -   Moar Drains 5       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma.,  mimPopse
Al, 'A~~~~~~~AA IA wA',A A A ,awlal    A             -$'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                             /                             KU/~~~ILMETERS                            I            P,ci-.  .-S,,t.
rAA QAAAAAAA,AAAAAAIAAAAAA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   N   ~~-.    ~ ~ \<-%t.-4N                         /                                                                                     mr CasEsrACijan or Recanstrjctia-h-nB.D.., e
MANAGL           U' \tk                                                                            -
r-'.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    T'  /~~~~~~c'-               <Y4A~~~~~~~~~~itzH-i                                                                                                                7 ~~~~~~~~KHARTOUM
----- -'  NAOJAiA ~ QRTA WEST STaNCA                                                                 HA;rI/#                                   I    A    *'         A5l1At9                     t5-             fI                                          '4                   1
SENA     i'4C;CF"AA~EOET~E              ---.~~' >A~;~<                                                                                        A/A/ '1j0--i/ ,                           I    Li14DRAIN8/i&                                          w.a
-~    '~~'Y-'f            1<          ~       Sy~   ,5ri54   ys?          A       <v~                                   <I       21s         IV!   f5'CZ
~~r Af  K  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ M-rn    7   ~~~~~~~~   '  -                       iCA'-Y*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is'fI~~AG
2' 4! i   CALLEAQOB8ED RBAI1N\                                                 An            \          't      l
WAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
A-/f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



