                      Int~Litional Development AssOation                                                103241
                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                DECLASSIFIED
                                                     JUL 3 n 2015                          IDA/R85-46

    FROM:       The President                    WBG ARCHIVES·                             March 25, 1985




               SUDAN: Proposed Amendment to Gezira Rehabilitation Project
                         (Credit No. 1388-SU of June 16, 1983)*

    1.        On June 16, 1983, the Board approved an IDA credit of SDR 74.2
    million to the Government of Sudan for the Gezira Rehabilitation Project,
    of which the total cost is US$263 million. Co-financing of US73.4 million
    was expected at the time of Board presentation, based on information
    received from several donor organizations. Part of the expected project
    cofinancing has not materialized. This has resulted in a delay in the
    effectiveness of the IDA credit, because a condition of effectiveness was
    that the Government obtain US$50 million in cofinancing. The Board's
    approval is sought to amend the Credit Agreement by removing a condition of
    effectiveness and a dated covenant, and by providing for a review of
    available cofinancing by March 31, 1986. The proposed amendments are
    summarized in Attached 2.         ·

    Status of the Project

    2•        The objective of thls five-year project is to raise crop yields
    and production on the Gezira irrigation scheme and thereby increase foreign
    exchange earnings. The project also addresses a number of key policy and
    institutional reforms aimed at improving incentives for growers and the
    management of agricultural and irrigation operations. Since cotton
    produced on the Gezira scheme generates over 40 percent of Sudan's foreign
    exchange earnings, this project is the centerpiece of Sudan's economic
    recovery program, which is aimed at increasing export earnings. The
0   project also provides the basis for long-term modernization of the scheme




                                                                 *Questions  on the document may
                                                                   be referred to Mr. Robert
                                                                   Nooter, ext. 72820).



    Distribution

       Executive Directors and Alternates
       President
       Senior Vice Presidents
       Senior Management Council
       Vice Presidents, IFC
       Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
      This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
      of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dis.closed without World Bank authorization.
                     0               2             0
through studies and trials· -focussed on upgrading technology, and through
restructuring institutional arrangements so as to increase the
decision-making role of the scheme's 104,000 tenants. This project is the
largest of a series of IDA project$ in Sudan's irrigated subsector. The
others are the Blue Nile, White Nile and New Halfa Rehabilitation Projects,
and the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) I and ARP II credits.
The ARP credits provided equipment and inputs to all the major irrigated
schemes in Sudan, including Gezira, and are now almost entirely disbursed.

3.         The IDA credit for the Gezira Rehabilitation ·Project was signed
on August 9, 1983, but has not yet been declared effective. The only
condition still to be met is that the Government obtain not less than US$50
million from other cofinanciers. The effectiveness date, originally
November 9, 1983, has been extended six times and is now May 9, 1985. Only
US$14 million has so far been secured from other cofinanciers, namely Italy
(US$7 million) and the United Kingdom (US$7 million). A Japanese credit of
US$12 million has been appraised but not yet signed. The Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development has appraised and signed a US$41 million
equivalent credit, and the Saudi Fund has appraised a US$16 million credit
                                                                              0
for the project. Neither of these credits, however, has been made
available for disbursement because the Government of Sudan is in arrears on
payments which have fallen due from previous loans. The Government's
foreign exchange situation is such that it is not possible to predict when
repayment will occur. This uncertainty, besides affecting the IDA Credit
effectiveness, also affects a covenant requiring the Government to obtain
an additional US$23.4 million in cofinancing by December 31, 1983."

Government Request

4.        Any further delay in effectiveness of the IDA Credit will
significantly delay the expected production benefits of the project. The
Government has requested that, in view of the above impasse and its adverse
effects on the economic recovery program, the IDA credit be declared
effective by waiving the cofinancing conditions and limiting IDA
                                                                              Q
disbursements to items covered by a reduced "core" project that would be
viable with the financing already available. The Government has suggested
that the original project could be reverted to once financing arrangements
with all of the other donors materialize. If such cofinancing does not
become available, the project scope would be restricted permanently to that
of the "core" project. Attachment 1 summarizes the components in the
appraised project and the "core" project.

Recommendations Concerning Project Effectiveness

5.        Given. the importance of the Gezira Rehabilitation Project to the
long-term maintenance of the competitiveness of irrigated crops in Sudan,
IDA should maintain its support for the project. The consequences of
withdrawing IDA financing and thereby halting the project would go well
beyond the loss of economic returns from the project itself. The project
is a key element of the Bank's assistance to the Export Action Program
which began in 1980 and which has met so far with considerable success.
Cotton production at Gezira has more than doubled between 1981/82 and
                       0                  3
                                                        0

    1983/84. The current year's prospects are good in spite of an otherwise
    adverse economic and weather situation, thanks in part to support for
    timely and ad.equate purchase of recurrent inputs under the. IDA-financed
    ARP-II Project • . The earlier ARP-I Project, which was cofinanced with the
    EEC, provided urgently needed machinery, equipment and spare pa,rts to
    arrest decapitalization of the scheme. The ARP projects were intended as
    interim assistance whi_ch would be followed by major rehabilitation and
    replacem~nt of equipment and other assets, along with revamping of
    institutional arrangements and upgrading of technology. Without these
    investments and changes, production will begin declining again and the
    lon~~term benefits of the previous credits will be eroded.

    6.        The financing problem can be resolved by IDA declaring its credit
    effective and accepting the "core" project concept suggested by the
    Government, with appropriate safeguards. The project would be reduced in
    scope so as to be financed with the funds already secured, while being
    confined to elements which are technically and economically viable even
0   without the remaining portion of the project since the core project would
    retain all of the components that contribute directly to the project's
    production goals. Seven major components, including irrigation,
    agricultural machinery and equipment, pumping stations, and extension and
    research would be reduced only slightly from the appraisal amounts. The
    components and activities to be eliminated or significantly reduced, such
    as roads, vehicles, minor drains, staff housing, rural water supply, and
    schistosomiasis control, would affect production less di~ectly and over the
    long term. Therefore the proposed cuts would not reduce the project's
    originally estimated economic rate of return of 35.8 percent.

    7.        The Development Credit Agreement (Sections 4.04 and 4.06)
    provides fo·r the Government to set the producer price for cottori. and cost
    recovery charges for water and other _services each year in accordance with
    criteria that are acceptable to IDA. For the Gezira scheme to be
    financially and economically viable, the producer price for cotton must
0   provide an adequate incentive to the tenants. This is of particular
    concern this year because the official exchange rate that is used to
    determine that price is now overvalued •. Therefore, before presenting this
    proposal for making the Gezira project effective, IDA has determined that
    the announced cotton price for 1985 will provide an adequa~e incentive to
    producers (provision for the setting of cotton prices in future ·years is.
    included in the Development Credif Agreement). In addition, the cost
    recovery charges for water delive~y
                                      I
                                         have been increased this year by an
    amount which is satisfactory to IDA, and which will lead to full cost
    recovery within the next two year;s.

    8.        The Government would consult with IDA before March 31, 1986, on
    the status of cofinancing. If further financing is obtained, the
    components now being cut would be partially or fully restored. If not, the
    balance of the IDA credit would be used to support the "core" project,
    which would then p.ermanen.tly replace the original project.
                                                      0
                                        4



Project Risks

9.        Project success is contingent on the Government's ability to
finance the recurrent inputs needed annually for cotton production,
including fertilizer, herbicides, insecticides and jute sacks. In view of
the severe shortage of foreign exchange which the country faces, the
Government's ability to meet this requirement is uncertain. However, the
Government is keenly aware of the importance of these inputs as a key
factor in the production of_ the cotton crop, which is. Sudan's largest
foreign exchange earner. Therefore we consider this risk an acceptable
one. We will, however, monitor the Government's performance on_ this matter
very carefully through the· Annual Work Programs and our regular supervision
missions.

10.       In the absence of objections, which should be communicated to the
Vice President and Secretary or Deputy Secretary by April 4, 198 5, I          Q
propose to amend the Development Credit Agreement (Credit 1388-SU) in
accordance with the terms of this memorandum to enable the Credit .to be
declared effective.




                                   A.    w. Clausen
                                        President




Attachments: 1. Components of Proposed Core Project
             2. Proposed Amendments to Credit Agreement

                                                                               0
                           0                                0
                                                           Attachment 1
                                                           Page 1 of 3

                                         SUDAN

                     GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1388-SU)


                                 Proposed Core Project

         Component                         As Appraised   Proposed Core Project
                                           ---Total Base Cost - USS Million

    A.   Irrigation                                21. 6              18.8
    B.   Drainage                                  23.0               14.6
    c.   Pumping Stations                           6.5                6.5
    D.   Sennar Dam                                 4.2                4.2
    E.   SGB Agricultural Machinery & Equip.       12.3                9.3
0   F.
    G.
         Extension, Farmer Training & Research
         Workshops and Fuel Supplye
                                                    5.6
                                                   16.3
                                                                       5.6
                                                                      10.0
    H.   Vehicles                                  19.0                4.2
    I.   Roads                                      4.6                   0
    J.   Telecommunications                        11. 8                  0
    K.   Gezira Light Railway                       5.0                5.0
    L.   Ginneries, Cotton Handling & Storage      21.3               17.6
    M.   Schistosomiasis Program                    6.0                3.0
    N.   Rural Water Supply                        IS.3                7.1
    o.   Staff Housing .                            9.3                 0
    P.   Rehabilitation Project Management Unit     4.4                4. 1
    Q.   SGB Management Information System          3.9                2.2
    R.   Training                                   4.2                2.1
    s.   Other· Technical Assistance                1.8                1. 2
    T.   Studies                                    2.4                1.2


0   Total Baseline Costs
    Contingeicies
                                                  198.6
                                                   64.1
                                                                    116. 7
                                                                     33.5

    Total Including contingencies                 262. 7            150.2


    Foreign   Exchange included above             149.8               88.2


    This table includes US$7 million financing secured from the Government of
    Italy and US$7 million financing secured from the United Kingdom for the
    Gezira Light Railway component but excludes anticipated financing from
    Japan for a telecommunications component. The balance of the financing for
    the core Project (US$62 million equivalent) will be provided by the
    Government of Sudan.
                  0                                0

                                                   Attachment 1
                                                   Page 2 of 3




Description of the Core Project

A.   Irrigation (US$18.8 million): Same as in para. 39 A of the
     President's Report (PR) of May 20, 1983. The cost estimates have been
     revised taking into account prevailing prices and revaluation of the
     dollar since that time.

B.   Drainage System (US$14.6 million): Same as in para. 39 B of the PR
     except excluding the reconstruction of the minor drainage system and
     its maintenance cost.
                                                                               0
c.   Pumping Stations (US$6.5 million):    Same as in para. 39 C of the PCR

D.   Sennar Dam (US$$4.2 million):   Same as in para. 39.D-of the PR.

E.   Agricultural Machinery (US$9.3 million): Same as in para. 39 E of the
     PR excluding the incremental machinery costs which would be borne by
     the Sudan Gezira Board's own budget. The costs ·reflect the current
     prices of the equipment as obtained from recent ICB tenders on other
     projects in Sudan.

F.   ~tension, Farmer Training and Research (US$5.6 million):     Same as in
     para. 39 F of the PR.

G.   Workshops and Fuel Supply (US$10.0 million): Reduction in scope of
     work from that given in para. 39 G of the PR. The project would not
     finance incremental operating costs which would be borne by the           0
     project entities. Also the upgrading and extension of workshop
     facilities would be reduced to more modest scale.

H.   Vehicles (US$4.2 million): Only the essential requirements for the
     first year of the project would be provided under project financing.
     Lorries and light mobile units for RWA would be provided.

I.   Roads:   Excluded from the project.

J.   Telecommunication: Excluded in the core project but bilateral aid
     (parallel financing) for the full component (para. 39 J of the PR) is
     anticipated from Japan.
                        0                                0
                                                             Attachment 1
                                                             Page 3 of 3




    K.     Gezira Light Railway:   Same as in para. 39 K of the PR.

    L.     Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage (US$17.6 million): Same as in
           para. 39 L of the PR, but excluding incremental operating costs.

    M.     Schistosomiasis Program (US$3.0 million): The project would provide
           only drugs (praziquental) and vehicles for mass chemothrapy.

    N.     Rural Water Supply (US$7.l million): The project would finance pumps
           and storage tanks for sixty already drilled wells; four regional
           maintenance workshops would be constructed and equipped and mobil
           maintenance units provided. The rest of the original project
           components (para. 39 N of the PR) would be dropped.
0
    O.     Staff Housing:   Excluded from the "core" project.

    P.     Rehabilitation Project Management Unit (US$4.l million):    Same as
           given. in para. 39 P of the PR.

    Q.     SGB Management Information Service (US$2.2 mi1lion): Same as in
           para. 39 Q of the PR but. the cost estimates have been revised after
           revi~w by a Bank mission in December (984.

    R. ·   Training (US$2 .1 million): Same as in para. 39 R of the PR. However,
           the cost estimates have been scaled down with some reduction in
           overseas training and study tours and in unit prices for training
           elements.

    s.     Other Technical Assistance (US$1A2 million): Same as in para 39 S of
0          the PR, with cost estimates adjusted to reflect the prevailing rates.

    T.     Studies (USSl.2 million): Studies to proviae the information base and
           conduct the policy analysis necessary to consider long-term structural
           charges in the existing tenurial and production systems of the Gezira
           Scheme. The. studies would be coordinated by an internationally
           recruited agricultural economist in the RPMU.
                           0                                0
c
                                                                   Attachment 2


                                           SUDAN

                       GEZIRA REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1388-SU)


              -Summary of Proposed Amendments to Development Credit Agreement


        1.        Delete Section 6.0l(b), which requires that all the conditions
        precedent to the disbursement of at least US$50 million equivalent in
        cofinancing be fulfilled as a condition of credit effectiveness.

        2.        Delete Section 5.0l(f), which requires that conditions precedent
    0   to the disbursement of at le~st USS23.4 million equivalent in cofinancing
        (in addition to the US$50 million) be fulfilled by December 31, 1983.

        3.        Add a covenant setting forth the components to be included in the
        core project, and requiring the Borrower to consult with IDA on the status
        of cofinancing before March 31, 1986. If further financing has been
        obtained by then, the components which have been cut from the original
        project would be partially or fully restored, as mutually agreed by the
        Government and IDA. If not, the core project would then permanently
        replace the orig~nal project.




    0
