OFFICIAL
TS REDIT NUMBER 1388 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Gezira Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        4,, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1388 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       +-.G S'±   )          , 1983, between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the
Borrower or Sudan) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract loans and grants
in foreign exchange amounting in the aggregate to at least
$73,400,000 equivalent to finance part of the Project;
(C) certain Parts of the Project (as described in Sched-
ule 2 hereto) will be carried out by the Sudan Gezira Board
(hereinafter called SGB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SGB
part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; 'and
WHEREAS the AssLociation has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SGB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SGB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SGB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c) "Project    Preparation  Advance"   means   the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 25, 1983 and
April 21, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
(d)  "km" means kilometer.
(e)  "kg" means kilogram.
(f) "m" means meter.
(g)  "Gezira Act" means the Gezira Scheme Act 1960, as
reenacted or amended from time to time.
(h)  "Project Area" means the area referred to in the Gezira
Act.
(i) "ARC" means the Agriculture Research Corporation.
(j)  "BNHP" means the Blue Nile Health Project.
(k) "RWA" means the Rural Water Administration of the
Central Region of Sudan.
(1) "MOAI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture and irrigation.
(m) "MOAI(I)" means the MOAI's department responsible for
irrigation.
(n)  "SPTC"  means   the  Sudan   Public  Telecommunications
Corporation.


﻿-3-
(o) "RPMU" means the rehabilitation Project management unit
included in Part Q of the Project.
(p)  "PMC" means the Project Management Committee estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) (i) hereof.
(q)  "PPC" means the Project Procurement Committee estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) (i) hereof.
(r) "GLR" means the Gezira Light Railway.
(s)  "MOFEP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
finance and economic planning.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to seventy four million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 74,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower and SGB of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall ba paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time. be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service' charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1993, and ending June 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause SGB to perform in accordance with


﻿-5-
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SGB to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit,
relend to SGB the equivalent of at least SDR 45,000,000 and no
more than SDR 50,000,000, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SGB under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through MOAI, MOAI(I),
MOFEP, ARC, BNHP, RWA and SPTC, carry out the Parts of the
Project for which it is responsible (as described in Schedule 2
hereto) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going:
(i) the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), estab-
lish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of
the Project the unit included in Part R of the
Project, a Project management committee and a
Project procurement committee, such unit and com-
mittees to be operated on terms and conditions
satifactory to the Association, and the unit and
PPC to be headed by a director and a chairman,
respectively, whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii) (A) the Borrower shall, in cooperation with SGB:
(1) by April 1 of each year, prepare and
submit to PMC for its review and appro-
val a draft annual work program covering
its proposed activities under the Parts
of the Project for which it is responsi-
ble for the following fiscal year, such
program to be prepared according to a
format and to include items (including
the funding of said Parts of the Pro-
ject) acceptable to the Association, it
being specified that, for the balance of
fiscal year 1983/1984, such draft annual
work program shall be prepared and
submitted to PMC for its review and
approval by August 31, 1983; and
(2) promptly upon approval of such draft
work program by PMC and, in any event no
later than May 1 of each year, submit
such draft work program to the Associa-
tion in order to ensure that it is
satisfactory to the Association, it
being specified that, for the balance of
fiscal year 1983/1984, such draft annual
work program shall be submitted to the
Association for such purpose by Septem-
ber 30, 1983;
(B) Promptly upon receipt of the Association's
notification that it has found the draft
annual   work   program   satisfactory,    the
Borrower shall take all appropriate steps to
finalize such annual work program and to
carry it out in cooperation with SGB;
(iii) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall make quarterly transfers of funds
to the local currency account opened by SGB pur-
suant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, in
conformity with the provisions of the annual work
programs prepared as provided in sub-paragraph
(ii) hereof and Section 2.01 (b) of the Project
Agreement;


﻿-7-
(iv) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain an account with Bank of
Sudan under the name of MOAI(I) for the purposes
of the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible and shall make transfers of funds to
such account in conformity with the provisions of
the annual work programs prepared as provided in
sub-paragraph (ii) hereof;
(v) the Borrower shall ensure that until completion of
the Project SGB shall have access to an appro-
priate line of credit with Bank of Sudan in order
to cover its working capital needs;
(vi) the Borrower shall ensure that, until complation
of the Project, timely allocations of fuel,
fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and other
necessary    recurrent   inputs    in    sufficient
quantities shall be made available to SGB and the
Borrower's departments and agencies involved in
the Project and shall provide the Association with
quarterly reports on the availability      of such
inputs, such reports to be prepared according to a
format acceptable to the Association; and
(vii) the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1984 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), prepare
and submit to the Association for its information
an action program for the implementation of the
recommendations emanating from the study included
in Part T (b) of the Project, and no later than
December 31, 1984 (or such other date as the
Association may agree), exchange views on such
program with the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Parts of the Project for which it is responsible, the
Borrower shall, as and when needed, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such experts to be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles    and   procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the parts of the Project for which it is responsible, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the parts of the
Project for which it is responsible, (including their costs and
the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the parts of the Project for which it is
responsible; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the parts of the Project for which it is responsible, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived there-
from, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) (i) Not later than December 31, 1986 or such other date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with SGB, prepare


﻿-9-
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower, the Association and SGB of their respective obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
all until that date; and (ii) the Borrower shall, thereafter,
exchange views with the Association on this report in cooperation
with SGB and prepare, in cooperation with SGB and in agreement
with the Association, a plan for the further execution of the
Project.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with SGB,
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perform-
ance by the Borrower, the Association and SGB of their respective
obligations under   the Development   Credit Agreement    and  the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SPTC to enter, by
June 30, 1984 (or such other date as the Association may agree),
into an agreement with SGB and MOAI(I) acceptable to the
Association providing for the tariffs which shall be applicable
for the use of the facilities included in Part K of the Project
until June 30, 1988. The Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such agreement without the Association's
consent.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), cause the Agricultural


﻿- 10 -
Bank of Sudan to make available to the tenants of the Project
Area the financing necessary for the purchase of about 75
tractors and associated implements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained apprbpriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower (namely
MOFEP, MOAI, ARC, BNHP, RWA, MOAI(I) and SPTC) responsible Zor
carrying out certain Parts of the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, no later than six
months after the end of each such year, copies of the unaudited
financial statements related to such accounts; (iii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as avai" ble, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation    to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure 1ave been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts,


﻿- 11 -
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, cause
the facilities, machinery, equipment and other property included
in the Parts of the Project for which it is responsible to be
operated and maintained, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be
made, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
administrative and agricultural practices.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing:
(i) the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1985 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), carry
out the remedial works identified as being re-
quired for the proper maintenance of the Roseires
dam during the 1982 inspection thereof and, to
this end, the Borrower shall provide MOAI(I) with
all necessary funds in a timely fashion; and
(ii) the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association, cause the Sennar and
Roseires dams (and their related structures) to be
periodically inspected, in accordance with sound
engineering   practice,  in   order  to   determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condi-
tion of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of
the same, which may endanger their safety; to this
end, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1983 (or
such other date as the Association may agree),
propose to the Association appropriate arrange-
ments for the Association's review and comments
and, upon receipt of the Association's comments,
the Borrower shall promptly take all appropriate
action to make such arrangements operative, taking
into account the Association's comments.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1983, (or
such other date as the Association may agree), prepare and submit
to the Association for its review and comments a ten-year program
for its proposed investments in the irrigation sub-sector.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, set cotton and wheat price levels applicable to the
producers of the Project Area by December 1 and November 1 of
each year, respectively, the criteria to be taken into account
for the setting of such levels to be acceptable to the Associa-
tion and such levels to be set after consultations with the
Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, set annually the levels of machinery hire applicable to
the tenants of the Project Area on the basis of full recovery of
costs.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, set by May 1 of each year the levels of water and land
charges applicable to the tenants of the Project Area, the
criteria to be taken into account for the setting of such levels
to be acceptable to the Association and the levels to be set
after consultations with the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) theieof:
(a) SGB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SGB
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(c) The Gezira Act shall have been reenacted, amended,
suspended,  abrogated,   repealed  or  waived  so  as   to  affect
materially and adversely the ability of SGB to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SGB or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿- 13 -
(e) (i) Subje2, to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right ofK the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of a4y grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have bee suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establis%es to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall have failed to receive, by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 (or such other date as the Association may agree),
appropriate   notification  showing   that   all  the   conditions
precedent (if any) to the disbursement of at least $23,400,000
equivalent (in addition to the $50,000,000 equivalent referred to
in Section 6.01 (b) hereof) out of the grants and loans referred
to in Part (B) of the Preamble hereto have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


﻿- 14 -
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to 1-he effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower .and SGB;
(b) the Association has received appropriate notification
showing that all the conditions precedent (if any) to the
disbursement of at least $50,000,000 equivalent out of the grants
and loans referred to in Part (B) of the Preamble hereto have
been fulfilled, save for the effectiveness hereof;
(c) the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association showing that RPMU has been staffed, as provided
in Section 3.02 (b) (i) hereof;
(d) the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association showing that the transfer of the operation of
minor canals, for at least one sub-division, thereof from SGB to
MOAI(I) has been effected, as provided in Section 2.07 of the
Project Agreement; and
(e) the draft law submitted to the Association prior to the
date hereof promulgating amendments to the Gezira Act has been
duly enacted, as provided under the laws of Sudan.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SGB, and is legally binding upon SGB in accordance
with its terms;


﻿- 15 -
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and SGB and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and SGB in accordance with its terms; and
(c) the draft law submitted to the Association prior to the
date hereof promulgating amendments to the Gezira Act has been
duly enacted, as provided under the laws of Sudan.
Section 6.03. The date   NDi        .qj 19 $3       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement and the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-two (22) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                        Telex:
EIMAR                              3324
Khartoum


﻿- 16 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /4/V           4v~-P.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 17--
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 8,750,000
(a) carried                                   100% of for-
out under                                eign expendi-
a contract                               tures and 35%
of local ex-
penditures
(b) carried                                   35% of local
out under                                expenditures
force
account
(2) Vel:.cles, equip-         44,470,000          100% of for-
mer,t, machinery,                             eign expendi-
materials and                                 tures, 100%
spare parts                                   of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
55% of local
expenditures
for other
items locally
procured
(3) Technical                   8,060,000          100%
services
(4) RPMU Expenses               1,860,000          100%


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(5) Training                    1,390,000
(a) overseas                                  100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) local                                     40% of local
expenditures
(6) Operation and               1,650,000           60% of local
maintenance                                    expenditures
(7) Refunding of                  560,000          Amount due
Project Prepara-                               under Section
tion Advance                                   2.02 (b) here-
of
(9) Unallocated                 7,460,000
TOTAL                74,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursements under Categories 1 (b), (4), (5) (b) and (6)
may be made on the basis of statements of expenditures which
shall be in form, and contain information, satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 19 -
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, after consulting with the
Borrower and by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Cate-
gory and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit A-reement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of t'.- Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to raise crop yields
and production in the Project Area over a five-year period; it
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Canal Regulators and Structures
Replacement by MOAI(I) of canal regulators and repairs to
the canal structures, through the acquisition of inter alia
roller sluice gates, steel pipes, regulator doors and water level
gauges.
Part B:   Canal Maintenance
Program by MOAI(I) of canal maintenance, through the acqui-
sition of inter alia loaders, tipper lorries and elevating
graders, the upgrading of the irrigation operation and main-
tenance organization of MOAI(I), and the overseas training of its
staff.
Part C:   Drainage Systems
Improvement by MOAI(I) of the drainage systems, through,
inter alia, the excavation of silt in about 1,480 km of major
drains, the excavation of about 190 km of main drains, the
reconstruction  of   about  6,000   km  of   minor  drains,   the
construction of 5 drainage pumping stations, the acquisition of
mobile pumps, the construction of 2 syphons and the installation
of about 600 road crossings along major drains.
Part D:   Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation and improvement of pumps at, inter alia, the
Wad Haddad East and West, Tambul, Hag Abdulla, Shawl 1 and 2,
Rabaa, Gundal and Guneid pump stations and replacement of the
existing Mezagila pumping station by an electrically driven
pumping station, all to be carried out by MOAI(I).
Part E:   Sennar Dam
Repair of gates, overhauling of cranes and upgrading of
mechanical equipment and workshop facilities for the Sennar dam,
all to be carried out by MOAI(I).


﻿- 21 -
Part F:   Agricultural Machinery
Improvement by SGB of its farm machinery through, inter
alia, the acquisition of about 150 tractors and various farm
implements.
Part G:   Extension, Farmer Training and Research
(a) Agronomic research programs to be carried out by SGB
and ARC at Al Gadid and Abdul Rahman, through, inter alia, the
provision of about 12 tractors, implements and laboratory
equipment.
(b) Introduction by SGB of a training and visit extension
system in two of its field-extension groups of the Project Area,
through, inter   alia, the   training  of  its   staff  (including
overseas training of field inspectors), the construction and
equipping of a SGB's training center at Barakat, and the
provision of training and education equipment.
(c) Strengthening by SGB of its seed propagation depart-
ment, through, inter alia, the provision of equipments and
overseas training for its staff.
Part H:   Workshops and Fuel Supply
Upgrading and extension of SGB facilities and MOAI(I) work-
shops through, ivter alia, the provision of equipment, spare
parts, overseas training of SGB and MOAI(I) staff.
Part I:   Motor Vehicles
Improvement of the supervision and delivery of services to
farmers in the Project Area, through the provision of, inter
alia, (i) light and four-wheel drive vehicles, buses, lorries,
fuel tankers and fire lorries to SGB, (ii) light and four-wheel
drive vehicles and lorries to MOAI(I), and (iii) lorries and
light-mobile maintenance units to RWA.
Part J:   Roads
Spot repairs and general maintenance by MOAI(I) or about
6,000 km of roads, and acquisition of road graders therefor.


﻿- 22
Part K:   Telecommunications
Installation by SPTC of three telephone exchanges and one
multi-access rural telephone system with a capacity of about
1,500 lines and expansion of the existing telephone exchange at
Barakat to about 1,000 lines.
Part L:   Gezira Light Railway
Improvement of GLR operating capability in the Project Area,
through, inter alia, (i) the acquisition of motorized and hand
pump trolleys, elevating motor graders and handtools for correc-
tive maintenance of tracks, (ii) the replacement of about 38 km
of 12.4 kg/m track by 17.4 kg/m rails, (iii) the rehabilitation
of the wagon fleet by replacing worn-out wagon running parts and
providing 20 tanker wagons, and (iv) re-engining of 10 Hunslet
McLaren locomotives.
Part M:   Ginneries, Cotton Handling and Storage
(a) Mechanization by SGB of three existing labor intensive
ginneries and fitting of these ginneries and the existing
mechanized   ginneries   with  pre-cleaning   and   humidification
equipment, improvement of existing factory workshops and factory
and yard infrastructure, and installation of two saw-gins and a
seed dressing plant.
(b) Improvement by SGB of its existing storage and handling
facilities, through, inter alia, the construction of hard sur-
faces and the provision of equipment for mechanical handling.
Part N:   Schistosomiasis Program
Program by BNHP to combat schistosomiasis, through, inter
alia, the provision of tablets to the farmers of the Project Area
and focal mollusciciding for irrigation canals.
Part 0:   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Improvement and extension of the RWA's water supply systems
through, inter alia, (i) the acquisition of pumps and storage
tanks for about 60 wells, (ii) the rehabilitation of about 100
slow sand filter treatment plants in the Managil area, (iii) the
construction and equipping with handpumps of about 145 borewello,
(iv) the construction and equipping of four regional maintenance


﻿- 23 -
worY-shops,  (v)  the  provision  of  lorries  and   small  mobile
maintenance units, and    (vi) the establishment of rour slab
manufacturing units at the RWA's regional maintenance workshops.
Part P:   Staff Housing and Utilities
(a) Construction of (i) houses for SGB staff and (ii)
houses for MOAI(I) staff.
(b) Provision of electricity, water supply and sanitation
to existing staff housing of SGB and MOAI(I).
Part Q:   Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
Establishment and operation of a rehabilitation Project
management unit within MOAI.
Part R:   Management Information System
Establishment   and 'operation   by  SGB   of  a   management
information system.
Part S:   Management and Training
Strengthening of the management, administration and training
capability of SGB and MOAI(I), including the construction of
training facilities.
Part T:   Studies
(a) Studies by RPMU on, inter alia, the tenancy system,
credit availability, marketing system, livestock development and
agricultural machinery use in the Project Area.
(b) Study by MOFEP on the ways and means required to ensure
the adequate   and  timely  financing  of   the  foreign  exchinge
recurrent costs of the agricultural activities included in the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
(Edition of July 1980) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in, Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60-days 4rior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for vehicles, machinery, equipment and spare parts
will be grouped into appropriate bidding packages in order to
attract the interest of both smaller and larger manufactirers/
suppliers.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account


﻿- 25 -
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Sudan
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility 'of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sudan
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 26 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) (a) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
-to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bid-
ding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 27 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures; Procurement without
Contracting
(a) Annual requirements of spare parts for vehicles,
machinery  and equipment may    be purchased directly from the
manufacturer thereof or after obtaining quotations from at least
two reputable manufacturers (if there is more than one reputable
manufacturer), provided that the aggregate cost of the spare
parts so acquired shall not exceed $6,300,000 equivalent.
(b) Medicines and molluscicides may be purchased through
international shopping or purchased directly from one supplier
(if there is only one reputable supplier), provided that the
aggregate cost of the medicines and molluscicides so acquired
shall not exceed $9,000,000 equivalent.
(c) Contracts    for  fertilizers  and   herbicides  may   be
procured under local procedures acceptable to the Association,
provided that the aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall
not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
(d) Goods, which come under contracts of less than $20,000
equivalent each, may be purchased off-the-shelf or through local
shopping (after obtaining at least three (3) quotations),
provided that the aggregate cost of the goods so acquired shall
not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
(e) Goods, which come under contracts of less than $100,000
equivalent   each,  may   be  procured   under  local   procedures
acceptable to the Association, provided that the aggregate cost
of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,000,000
equivalent.
(f) Contracts for civil works, included in the Parts of the
Project other than Part 0 thereof and whose estimated individual
cost is less than $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under
local procedures acceptable to the Association, provided that the
aggregate cost of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed
$8,500,000 equivalent.
(g) Civil works included in Part 0 of the Project may be
carried out under force account by RWA, and according to proce-
dures acceptable to the Association, provided that the estimated
cost of works so carried out shall not exceed $17,000,000
equivalent.


﻿- 28 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,


﻿- 29 -
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3    L    day of ___      ,
198F C.
FOR SECRETARY


