                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2701



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-48250 IDA-H6180)


                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.30 MILLION
                        (US$38.10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
              INCLUDING SDR 5.40 MILLION (US$8.10 EQUIVALENT)
                IN PILOT CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW RESOURCES

                                        AND A

                                       GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.10 MILLION
                      (US$31.90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
         INCLUDING SDR 5.00 MILLION (US$7.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
              IN PILOT CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW RESOURCES

                                       TO THE

                                 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                       FOR AN

                         EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT


                                   May 12, 2014



Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Caucasus and Central Asia Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 12, 2014)
                        Currency Unit = Kyrgyz Som (KGS)
                            US$1.00 = 54.4201 (KGS)

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 = December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy             IFC     International Finance Corporation
CASA     Central Asia South Asia                 IFR     Interim Financial Report
CAEWDP   Central Asia Energy and Water           ISR     Implementation Status Report
         Development Program                     IMF     International Monetary Fund
CHPP     Combined Heat and Power Plant           IHS     Individual Heating Sub-station
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy            ISN     Interim Strategy Note
DFID     Department for International            JCSS    Joint Country Support Strategy
         Development                             JEA     Joint Economic Assessment
DPO      Development Policy Operation            JEPIG   Joint Energy Project
EC       European Commission                             Implementation Group
ECA      Europe and Central Asia Region          KGS     Kyrgyz Som
ECF      Extended Credit Facility                KJKS    Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz
EEAP     Energy Emergency Assistance             M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
         Project                                 MIS     Management Information Systems
EMP      Environmental Management Plan           MOE     Ministry of Energy
ERP      Emergency Recovery Project              MOEI    Ministry of Energy and Industry
ERSO     Economic Recovery Operation             MOF     Ministry of Finance
ESARIP   Electricity Supply Accountability       MCB     Monthly Cash Benefits
         and Reliability Improvement Project     NEG     National Electricity Grid
FM       Financial Management                    OSCE    Organization for Security and
FMM      Financial Management Manuals                    Co-operation in Europe
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                  PDO     Project Development Objective
GOKR     Government of Kyrgyz Republic           PER     Public Expenditure Review
IBRD     International Bank for                  PIU     Project Implementation Unit
         Reconstruction and Development          RVP     Regional Vice President
ICB      International Competitive Bidding       SDR     Special Drawing Rights
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results   TA      Technical Assistance
         Report                                  US$     United States dollar
IDA      International Development Association   WTO     World Trade Organization
IDP      Internally Displaced Person
       Vice President    Laura Tuck
     Country Director    Saroj Kumar Jha
Acting Sector Director   Roumeen Islam
      Sector Manager     Ivailo V. Izvorski
    ICR Team Leader      Evgenij Najdov
                                         KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                    EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                                            CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 42
Annex 9. Detailed List of Equipment Purchased By Energy Sector Companies ............. 43
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents* ...................................................................... 60

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                     Emergency Recovery
Country:                  Kyrgyz Republic     Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:          P123044            L/C/TF Number(s):            IDA-48250,IDA-H6180
ICR Date:            02/18/2013         ICR Type:                    Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  ERL                Borrower:                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total                                                       XDR 45.54M
                     XDR 46.40M         Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 45.54M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process                Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:           09/01/2010     Effectiveness:        10/08/2010          10/08/2010
Appraisal:                               Restructuring(s):                          July 2013
Approval:                 09/30/2010     Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:              12/31/2012           12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                     Ratings              Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory           Government:                Satisfactory
                          Satisfactory           Implementing               Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank              Satisfactory           Overall Borrower           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                                    QAG Assessments (if
                                Indicators                                        Rating
     Performance                                           any)
Potential Problem
Project at any time      No                       Quality at Entry (QEA): None
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of Supervision
                         Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                                                  5
General energy sector                                              40                    40
General transportation sector                                      10                    10
Oil and gas                                                        50                    45

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                       20                   20
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                20                   20
Macroeconomic management                                            30                   30
Social risk mitigation                                              30                   30

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                          Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:          Saroj Kumar Jha                     Motoo Konishi
Country Manager            Alexander Kremer                    Alexander Kremer
Sector Manager:            Ivailo V. Izvorski                  Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin
                           Evgenij Najdov /
Project Team Leaders:      Yuriy Myroshnychenko                Afsaneh Sedghi
                           Evgenij Najdov /
ICR Team Leaders:          Yuriy Myroshnychenko
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the project was to assist the government in: (a) strengthening the prospects for
macroeconomic stability and the government’s fiscal resilience to meet the priority needs of its
emergency recovery and reconstruction program; and (b) restoring and ensuring continuous
provision of the basic energy (power/heat/gas) services with a focus on the affected areas so as to
support economic output and provide adequate heating to population during the winter.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
       Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
                         Ensure adequate budget financing for education, health and social
Indicator 1 :
                         allowances for the poor, measured as percent of GDP
Value quantitative or
                                 10.30                7.00                          12.40
Qualitative)
Date achieved              01-Dec-2009       31-Dec-2012                         31-Dec-2012
Comments (incl. %        Exceeded the target, though as identified in the ongoing programmatic
achievement)             Public Expenditure Review, efficiency of spending could be improved.
                         Restore access to power supply in the cities and rural areas of Jalalabad
Indicator 2 :
                         and Osh regions as measured by number of re-connected households
Value quantitative or
                                 0.00           19,000.00                         19,000.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved              01-Dec-2009        31-Dec-2012                        31-Dec-2012
Comments (incl. %
                         All consumers are connected to electric power network
achievement)
                         Maintain the heat supply availability in Osh in 2010/11 and 2011/12
Indicator 3 :            winters at levels equivalent to corresponding periods in 2009 as
                         measured by percentage of available heat output
                                                                            107% in 2010/2011
                                                                            153% in 2011/2012
Value quantitative or                                                       133% in 2012/2013
                               0.00              100.00
Qualitative)                                                                comparing with
                                                                            2009/2010 winter

Date achieved             01-Dec-2009        31-Dec-2012                          31-Dec-2013
                         Heat supply from OCHP started on November 3, 2011 in 2011/ 2012
Comments (incl. %
                         winter. The variation in the heat supplies is due to differences in
achievement)
                         weather conditions in different years.



                                                iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
       Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
                        Arrears for teacher and doctor salaries, pensions, social allowances
Indicator 1 :
                        (UMB and MSB)
Value quantitative or
                              0.00                0.00                             0.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved            01-Dec-2009        31-Dec-2012                       02-Apr-2013
Comments (incl. %
                        No accumulated arrears.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :           Number of restored gas connections
Value quantitative or
                              0.00            1,224.00                           1,235.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved            01-Dec-2009        31-Dec-2012                        15-Jun-2012
Comments (incl. %
                        Connections of both restored and new houses/ apartments are complete.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :           Fuel supply for Osh CHP (tons)
Value quantitative or                                                    23,300 tons (2011)
                              0.00           17,400.00
Qualitative)                                                             21,700 tons (2012)
Date achieved            01-Dec-2009        31-Dec-2012                      15-Jun-2012
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                        The technical assistance in support of the public outreach and country
Indicator 4 :
                        advisors for CASA-1000 delivered.
Value quantitative or                                                      See comments
                               N/A
Qualitative)                                                               below
Date achieved                  N/A           31-Dec-2013                       31-Dec-2013
                        Technical assistance activities were included as part of the 2013
                        restructuring of the operation. Commercial and legal advisory services
Comments (incl. %       for Central Asia South Asia Electricity Transmission Project (CASA-
achievement)            1000) were delivered, the Ministry of Energy website was constructed
                        and a public information campaign was implemented to explain the key
                        problems facing the sector.




                                             iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
    Date ISR                                                                    Disbursements
No. Archived          DO                         IP                             (US$ millions)
                                                 Moderately
  1     05/13/2011    Moderately Satisfactory                                        30.84
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  2     12/28/2011    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             39.00
  3     10/14/2012    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             54.69
  4     04/25/2013    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             59.56
  5     11/14/2013    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        70.74

H. Restructuring (if any)

A Level 2 restructuring of the project was done in July 2013. (For details see Section 1.7)

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal.

Since independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic has advanced towards the creation of a
liberal market economy with the aim of promoting sustained economic growth and
reducing poverty, and has sought international integration through trade and investment,
notably by membership of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Between 2000 and
2009, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased by 57 percent, the massive fiscal deficit
of close to 11 percent of GDP in 2000 was replaced with a largely balanced budget and
poverty rates were halved from above 60 percent of the population to 32 percent. Still,
inflation remained volatile and the Kyrgyz Republic remained one of the poorest
countries in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. Politically, the Kyrgyz Republic
did achieve some success in fostering open institutions, while political fractions have
remained. Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) missions had
criticized the electoral process over the previous decade as having fallen short of good
practice. Elections for parliament in 2007 and for the president in 2009 were found to be
deficient: regulations were changed arbitrarily and procedures ignored, sometimes at the
last minute, leading to widespread public dissatisfaction with the process and its results.

Following a period of economic growth and falling poverty in the opening years of this
century, the Kyrgyz Republic was hit hard successively by the rise in food and energy
prices in 2007-08, the global financial crisis and ensuing economic recession from 2008,
and the disruption in regional energy cooperation. These external shocks had hampered
exports, inflows of worker remittances from Kazakhstan and Russia, and overall
economic activity. The authorities responded rapidly with a relaxation of fiscal and
monetary policies, and with stepped-up external borrowing which resulted in a modest
growth of 2.9 per cent in 2009 (down from 8.4 percent in the previous year), but also a
move from a balanced budget in 2008 to a 3.5 percent of GDP deficit in 2009.

However, in April 2010 anti-government demonstrations flared up in various cities of the
Kyrgyz Republic. This was directed at the centralization of power within the presidency,
growing corruption and the economic decisions taken without public consultation. The
protests culminated in riots in Bishkek and several other cities in Kyrgyz Republic and
violent crackdown by the government, the subsequent removal of the president from
office, and the formation of an interim administration headed by a coalition of opposition
political and civic leaders. The provisional government quickly dissolved parliament and
disbanded the constitutional court, which had been seen as too compliant to both previous
presidents of the Kyrgyz Republic. Provisional Government Decree No.1 concentrated
the functions of the parliament, president and government with the provisional
government.

This was followed by violent inter-ethnic clashes in June 2010, particularly in the cities
of Jalalabad and Osh. The two cities and some neighboring areas erupted in a spasm of
ethnically-directed violence and targeted arson. The officially reported death toll was

                                            1
over 300 persons, with unofficial estimates as high as 2,000 people, and nearly 75,000
were displaced.

Project Background. The political disturbances in April 2010 and the outburst of ethnic
conflict in June 2010 amounted to a significant shock to the economy. The events led to
loss of life and injuries to persons, damage to infrastructure, destruction of private and
public property, and weakening of confidence within the private sector. This had
affected investment, including foreign direct investment, adversely impacted trade and
services stemming from lack of security and several key border closures, seriously
disrupted economic activity, increased fiscal pressures, and resulted in a significant loss
in income per head. Wage income declined by around 4 percent in real terms in the
second quarter of 2010 and private consumption contracted by around 2 percent. GDP
growth collapsed and by mid-2010, the economy was projected to contract by 3.5 percent
for the year (by 4.6 percent excluding gold). 1 These clashes also created new and deep
social tensions and disrupted peace and stability in the country. In the absence of a large
scale and coordinated response from the international community, which also included
the Emergency Recovery Project, the situation could have easily reverted to the turmoil
seen earlier in the year with disastrous consequences over macroeconomic stability and
living standards.

                            Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
                                (In percent of GDP unless otherwise noted)
                                            2008      2009        2010           2011         2012     2013
                                             Act.          Act.      Act.        Act.          Act.    Prel.
Real sector
  GDP, in US$ million                       5,131         4,683     4,794       6,199         6,603    7,225
  GDP per capita, in US$                      972           864       875       1,120         1,182    1,280
  GDP growth, in percent                       8.4           2.9      -0.5        6.0           -0.1    10.5
  Investment                                 20.2          22.9      23.9        24.0          26.2     25.6

Fiscal accounts*
  Revenues and grants                        29.9          32.1      30.5        31.8          33.8     33.9
  Expenditures                               29.3          36.1      36.6        36.3          39.0     37.6
  Balance                                     0.0          -3.5      -6.3        -4.6          -5.3     -4.0
  Public debt                                48.5          58.1      59.7        49.4          49.0     47.7

External accounts
  Exports of goods and services              54.0          54.5      52.7        54.7          54.7     55.1
  Imports of goods and services              92.8          78.9      81.7        82.3          99.6     95.9
  Current account balance                   -15.5          -2.5      -6.4        -6.0         -15.3    -13.5
  External debt                              66.6          84.1      88.4        76.7          80.3     84.4

Prices and exchange rates
   Inflation, period average                24.5         6.8          7.8         16.6          2.8      6.6
   Exchange rate, KGS/US$, eop              39.4        44.1         47.1         46.5         47.4     49.2
Source: Bank staff calculations based on data from national authorities.
*/ Revenues and expenditures do not add up to the deficit due to statistical discrepancies.


1
 The Kyrgyz Republic: Joint Economic Assessment. Asian Development Bank, International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank, July 2010.

                                                      2
In light of budgetary pressures, the government took prompt action to protect certain
expenditure categories from fiscal cuts, focusing on social sectors (health, education and
social assistance) and wages. This included means-tested monthly cash benefits for
children from the poorest families; monthly cash payments extended to individuals
unable to work and otherwise not entitled to pensions; other unemployment benefits;
social transfers to the disabled, the elderly, orphans and war veterans; pensions;
continued investment in public health care; routine education expenditure; social
services; social insurance; salaries of civil servants; and expenditure on utilities. In
addition, rehabilitation of the damaged property and infrastructure added to fiscal costs.
As such, there was no accumulation of arrears in any categories of the protected
expenditures, though the fiscal balance rapidly deteriorated and was estimated to widen
to an unsustainable level of around 12 percent of GDP for the year, underlining the need
for emergency support to keep fiscal accounts solvent.

The 2010 developments also put further pressure on the already difficult situation in the
energy sector thus increasing risks of collapse in supply over the winter of 2010/11.
Funds needed for fuel for thermal plants were not secured as the country was unable to
export power during the summer due to the turmoil while urgent investments were
needed to bring the generation equipment to minimal service levels and to restore
connections damaged during the unrest.

The Joint Economic Assessment (JEA) prepared by the international financial institutions
in coordination with the government established a framework for international assistance
to the Kyrgyz Republic which was presented at a Donors’ High Level Meeting on July
27, 2010. During the meeting donors pledged a total of US$1.1 billion for the next
30 months in support of recovery and reconstruction in the Kyrgyz Republic. The JEA
identified three major areas for external support: (i) essential public expenditures and
services for the country; (ii) additional social needs including resettlement and integration
of internally displaced and affected populations in the south; and (iii) rehabilitation needs
for critical infrastructure destroyed or damaged including energy, transport and public
buildings, especially in the south. The Bank’s three-pronged response comprised
coordination of a multi-donor effort to assess impact and a conference of external
partners; adjustment of the existing Bank portfolio to restructure and reallocate funds
where possible; and initiation of new operations, including the Emergency Recovery
Project (ERP). The concerted efforts of the broader international community, including
the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Asian Development Bank
(ADB) as well as bilateral support from Russia and Turkey, helped mitigate the impact of
the crisis. As a result, GDP contracted by 0.5 percent for the year, while the fiscal deficit
was a more manageable 6.3 percent of GDP and was fully financed.

The ERP was processed under the Bank’s streamlined and simplified procedures for
extending emergency assistance. It was front-loaded, taking advantage of a retroactive
component applicable to emergency operations that could provide financial support
directly to the budget to strengthen the fiscal position of the government in financing its
high priority expenditures particularly in the south of the country. The project in the

                                             3
amount of US$70 million was approved in September 2010 and declared effective in
October 2010, less than three months following the start of identification.

Rationale for Bank assistance. The Bank’s response was structured in alignment with
the government’s overall response strategy, taking into account the emergency nature of
the needs of the country. The Bank’s strategy of emergency support was built upon its
traditional strengths: diagnosis of the impact of the crisis and an assessment of
emergency needs; promotion of cooperation amongst donors to ensure adequate financing
of the emergency needs; and its own financial and advisory contribution to support
recovery and rehabilitation. The project was fully consistent with the government
emergency strategy prepared and presented at the donors meeting along with the JEA.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)

The objective of the project was to assist the government in: (a) strengthening the
prospects for macroeconomic stability and the government’s fiscal resilience to meet the
priority needs of its emergency recovery and reconstruction program; and (b) restoring
and ensuring continuous provision of the basic energy (power/heat/gas) services with a
focus on the affected areas so as to support economic output and provide adequate
heating to population during the winter.

Key Indicators were:

   •   Ensure adequate budget financing for education, health and social allowances for
       the poor, measured as percent of GDP
   •   Restore access to power supply in the cities and rural areas of Jalalabad and Osh
       regions as measured by the number of re-connected households
   •   Maintain the heat supply availability in Osh in 2010/11 and 2011/12 winters at
       levels equivalent to corresponding periods in 2009/10 winter as measured by
       percentage of available heat output

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification

The objective was not revised. An additional intermediate outcome indicator was added
as part of the level two restructuring in 2013 to reflect the addition of provision of
technical assistance activities under the project. Namely, the scope of Component 2 was
expanded to include limited technical assistance to support the implementation of energy
sector reforms. Additionally, the technical assistance financed country advisors to
support the government in their negotiations of the CASA-1000. Both measures would
contribute to the long-term reliability of power supply and financial sustainability of the
energy sector and thus fall under the development objective of the ERP.




                                            4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The expected beneficiaries of the project included:

   •   Government of Kyrgyz Republic (GOK) which would be reimbursed for Eligible
       Expenditures made prior to the date of the Financing Agreement, but on or after
       November 1, 2009, and would receive financing for critical expenditures in the
       education sector. The reimbursement for eligible purchases and financing of
       education sector expenditures strengthened the government’s fiscal resilience to
       finance high priority expenditures for reconciliation, recovery and reconstruction,
       especially in the conflict-affected cities of Jalalabad and Osh.
   •   Affected people who would receive basic energy services (power/heat/gas).
   •   Teachers, doctors, and other budget funded workers who would receive salaries
       without arrears.
   •   The electricity and heat consumers of power generation and distribution
       companies as well as thermal power plants and district heating companies which
       would be assisted with access and rehabilitation of the system.
   •   Students who would receive textbooks and teachers and school administrators
       who would receive furniture, computers and supplies; furthermore, the ERP
       financed publication of books in Uzbek language which is expected to have
       contributed to better access to education for children from that minority.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1. High Priority Expenditures Pertaining to Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction (US$35 million). Under this component, the operation would finance
provision of Eligible Essential Goods and Commodities, as set forth in an agreed positive
list, to support government’s high priority expenditures and provide the necessary
liquidity needed to contribute to the implementation of the government emergency
recovery program. The positive list agreed upon included: fuels including diesel, gas,
fuel oil, office furniture and IT equipment for government entities that were destroyed
during the April events, school textbooks, furniture, equipment and supplies,
telecommunications equipment, trucks and their spare parts, and critical medical
equipment. These were essential goods and commodities that were required for the
Kyrgyz Republic emergency recovery and reconciliation program. This component
included a maximum of US$28 million for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred
and payments made no earlier than 12 months prior to signing of the project agreement.
The retroactive financing was expected to provide rapid support to the Kyrgyz budget to
reduce threats to macroeconomic stability and fiscal solvency by providing financing for
budget expenditures as well as foreign currency to stabilize the foreign exchange market.
It was also envisaged as a part of a response by the broader international community,
including the International Monetary Fund (Rapid Credit Facility in amount of around
US$34 million), Asian Development Bank and bilateral support.




                                            5
An additional US$5 million were spent on financing critical learning tools and materials
for the education sector, including publishing of textbooks and purchasing of school
computers and furniture.

Component 2. Rehabilitation and Repair of Energy Infrastructure and Networks
(US$35 million). The component would restore the damaged electricity, heat, and gas
distribution systems with focus on Jalalabad and Osh regions and would consist of the
three main sub-components: (i) restoring power, heat and gas supply to affected areas
through the urgent repair and rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure and networks for
electricity, heating and gas supply, (ii) carrying out the procurement of fuel for thermal
power plants and district heating systems, (iii) rehabilitating and repairing power
generation and distribution systems, and (iv) completing activities approved for financing
under the Financing Agreement for the Energy Emergency Assistance Project (Credit No.
4524-KG and Grant No. H429-KG) relating to the rehabilitation of the electricity and
heat generation facilities of the State Power Plants Company.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised. However, technical assistance was added to the scope
of Component 2. For details see Section 1.7.

1.7 Other significant changes

Extension. In March 2013, the project’s closing date was extended retroactively by 12
months from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013 to allow for completion of
procuring equipment to improve reliability and security of power supply. 2

Project Restructuring. A Level 2 restructuring of the project was completed in July
2013 to allow for provision of advisory support to the CASA-1000 and technical
assistance in support of the energy sector reforms. The restructuring was made possible
by savings on the planned activities. As a result, ERP’s focus shifted somewhat from a
crisis response operation to also provide technical assistance for critical support for
energy sector reform and the CASA-1000. Given the relevance of the activities to
ensuring sustainability of ERP outcomes and the lack of other instruments available to
remain engaged (as the new CPS was only approved in mid-2013), the management
decided to include the activities under the ERP. A new results indicator to monitor
progress under these activities was also added.




2
  The extension was prepared prior to the original closing date of the ERP in response to a government
request to extend the closing date and add technical assistance activities to the scope of activities under
component 2; however, it required a countersignature from the Kyrgyz authorities which was not received
in time to effectuate the extension due to lack of clarity if Parliament approval would be required.
Consequently, the Bank proceeded by first retroactively extending the operation and afterwards processing
a level 2 restructuring to add new activities.


                                                     6
A second Level 2 restructuring was processed in December 2013 to cancel US$1.3
million (SDR0.9 million) from the credit account of the ERP due to cost savings on some
activities under the project. This amount was reallocated to other World Bank projects
planned for the Kyrgyz Republic.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry. The project’s quality at entry was satisfactory. Consider the following:
   •   The project design was simple and straight forward and it reflected the country’s
       urgent needs as assessed by the JEA. The elements of each component reflected
       the analysis of the Bank’s relevant teams and their judgment in the selection of
       goods to be procured (within the time limitation and following the Bank
       procurement guidelines) which would be most effective in addressing the
       emergency needs.
   •   Given the multi-faceted nature of the energy component (Component 2), a
       separate Joint Energy Project Implementation Group (JEPIG) was set up at the
       Ministry of Energy (MOE) using resources of existing energy sector Project
       Implementation Units (PIUs) at the Joint Stock Company “National Electricity
       Grid” (NEG). Component 1 was implemented by a PIU under the Ministry of
       Finance (MOF) with some experience in implementing World Bank projects.
   •   In view of the limited preparation time and capacity of the JEPIG and the MOE, it
       was planned to implement investments in phases. The initial phase included
       activities and goods that were clearly defined and for which procurement could
       start immediately. In parallel, development of the subsequent activities was
       undertaken to initiate the procurement process.

Risk Assessment. The overall risk rating for the project during implementation was high.
The project faced country level risks, as well as risks specific to implementation of the
project and achievements of its objectives, given the country’s fragile social, political and
economic situation. There were various measures that were expected to be adopted that
would mitigate risk, including those relating specifically to sub-components.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account: The project drew on the key lessons
from the Bank’s past emergency operations. These included:

   •   Keep project design and project activities simple to ensure that the requirements
       for implementation are consistent with existing capacity on the ground, so that
       rapid results can be achieved under emergency conditions.
   •   Experienced and tested implementation agencies have proven most useful for
       emergency operations to achieve quick results. Leveraging existing implementing
       structures which already meet Bank’s fiduciary standards and have good
       knowledge of Bank procedures (like MOF PIU & JEPIG in this project) will be

                                             7
         critical to achieving quick results; the project was built on the existing structures
         such that the staff in charge of project implementation were fully operational upon
         project effectiveness.
   •     Substantial hands-on Bank involvement has been important for effective
         implementation of emergency projects. The project intended to have frequent
         supervision missions, frequent procurement post-reviews and close Bank country
         office staff involvement to help mitigate risks to its implementation.
   •     It is important to have a design that accommodates the use of funds to jump-start
         implementation of the critical activities either from the government’s own
         resources, or other sources, even before the project becomes effective; the project
         thus incorporated retroactive financing.

Adequacy of government commitment. The interim administration responded to the
events of April and June, 2010 with efforts at institutional reform, the introduction of a
parliamentary system of government, an emphasis on fiduciary safeguards as part of an
anti-corruption program, efforts to address the needs of the conflict-affected, commitment
to protect essential social expenditure, attempts to strengthen confidence in the private
sector, and efforts at ethnic reconciliation through a participatory approach.

In light of budgetary pressures, the government took prompt action to protect certain
expenditure categories from fiscal cuts. This included means-tested monthly cash
benefits (MCB) for children from the poorest families; monthly cash payments extended
to individuals unable to work and otherwise not entitled to pensions; other unemployment
benefits; social transfers to the disabled, the elderly, orphans and war veterans; pensions;
continued investment in public health care; routine education expenditure; social
services; social insurance; salaries of civil servants; and expenditure on utilities.

The interim administration responded to the June events by establishing an inter-agency
Commission for the Assessment of Damages to assess the extent of destruction to
property, livelihood and economic activity in the south. To respond to the impact in the
south, a newly established State Directorate for Rebuilding and Reconstruction of Osh
and Jalalabad, headed by a vice-prime minister, was established to lead the
government’s reconciliation, recovery and reconstruction efforts in the south. The
program for recovery centered on the restoration of livelihoods and the reconstruction of
housing and of commercial enterprises and markets which would provide critical support
to the economy and create jobs.

2.2 Implementation

Factors affecting implementation. As an emergency project, the ERP was prepared
under an extraordinary situation in a short period of time. The implementation of parts of
the program, however, was delayed due to several factors as mentioned below:

       (i)   The main reason for the slow implementation of the project was related to
             procurement issues. The capacity to prepare technical specifications and to
             carry out bid evaluation was inadequate in the Energy component. While the
                                              8
           PIU in charge of Component 2 was familiar with Bank procedures, for most of
           Energy companies these were the first major International Competitive
           Bidding (ICB). There was inadequate competition and contract failures
           leading to re-invitation which led to delays and eventually to extension of the
           project’s closing date.
    (ii)   The implementation of Component 2 was initially affected due to the delayed
           conclusion of the Subsidiary Credit Agreements between the MOF and the
           energy companies which were the final recipients of the project funds. While
           the decentralized approach to project implementation might have increased
           the project ownership by final beneficiaries, it also added to the complexity of
           the implementation arrangements.
   (iii)   Implementation was also affected by the uncertainties arising from the
           Parliamentary election on October 2, 2010 and the long process of formation
           of the new government thereafter.
   (iv)    Another factor which affected implementation was the inability of winning
           bidders to provide bank guarantees.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Being an emergency project, a simplified results framework was
established and three PDO indicators and four intermediate results indicators were
developed to monitor the performance of the project. Specific and clear targets for each
year were developed during project preparation. Including an indicator indicative of
macroeconomic conditions may have been appropriate to track to progress in
strengthening prospects for macroeconomic stability.

M&E implementation. With the support from the Bank’s task team, PIU was regularly
collecting data from the energy and gas companies as well as from the MOF according to
both the technical and financial indicators developed during project preparation. These
data were closely monitored and the actual figures were compared with the target values.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by PIU was evaluated and used for decision-
making on certain activities. For example, project funds were reallocated based on the
data collected. On the energy side, these data were useful for analyzing the supply of fuel
to thermal energy stations in the south.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance. Based on the discussions and site visits conducted by the
Bank’s task team as part of the regular supervision activities, as well as the findings of a
2013 safeguards mission, it was concluded that project activities were in compliance with
the provisions of the project Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The EMP
environmental requirements were followed by the implementing entities and by
Oshelectro, Jalalabatelectro, and by Bishkek district heating company and there were no


                                             9
complaints on the implemented civil works from environmental authorities or local
population and thus no need for any corrective measures.

Fiduciary Compliance. The project complied with fiduciary covenants during
implementation. Internal control arrangements were in place, and adequate financial
management and procurement systems at the PIU level were maintained. However, there
were delays in submitting audit reports and the audits had pointed out a few procurement
issues on which the PIUs took follow-up measures. In addition, capacity in the power
companies which were final beneficiaries for some of the component 2 activities was
generally lower.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition arrangements. The transition arrangements for maintaining the achievements
of the project appear to be adequate, as demonstrated by the following measures.
       •   Political: The provisional government that took office in the spring of 2010
           drafted a new constitution in a participatory manner. Presidential system has
           been transformed into a parliamentary one. Parliamentary elections were held
           in September 2010 and presidential elections in October 2011. Both elections
           were deemed to be free and fair. There were two changes of government
           since (in August 2012 and April 2014) which were done expeditiously and in
           democratic processes. These frequent changes in government, however,
           highlight the fragile political environment in the country.
       •   Technical: The project has contributed significantly to improve technical
           reliability of the energy system. For example, distribution substation and lines
           equipment procured under the project has contributed in reducing technical
           losses. Billing and collection of energy and gas companies have been
           improved because of the installation of power and gas meters.
       •   Institutional: The government is trying to improve public services and given
           the current political environment and new division of power between the
           government, parliament and the president, institutional arrangements could
           eventually evolve and be adequate. For example:

           o In the energy sector, Electricity Supply Accountability and Reliability
             Improvement Project (ESARIP) aims to reduce losses and revenue
             leakages by establishing a transparent accountability framework for the
             power and financial flows in Severelectro, which would be used as a
             model by the other three distribution companies in the country.
           o In order to ensure that the provision of technical assistance to the Kyrgyz
             authorities for the CASA-1000 project continues after the closing date of
             the project, this activity will be taken over by the Central Asia Energy and
             Water Development Program (CAEWDP) activity.

       •   Financial: At the sector level, after ERP, the Bank has a sizeable presence
           through its Public Expenditure Review (PER) which analyzed efficiency of

                                            10
           public expenditures in number of sectors, including education, health, social
           protection etc. PER note for the energy sector (later expanded to a broader
           power sector review) also assessed the financial stance of the energy sector
           companies and the consolidated sector, the quasi-fiscal deficit and offered
           specific recommendations on improving management of expenditure
           (including prioritization of sector investments and their balancing with
           maintenance needs), increasing power sector revenues and enhancing
           operational efficiencies.

At the macro level, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has broadly endorsed the
country’s macroeconomic policies and supported these by an Extended Credit Facility
(ECF). The ECF was approved in June 2011 to support economic recovery in the short
term and a stronger, sustained and inclusive growth in the medium term by promoting
gradual fiscal consolidation and strengthening of the financial sector resilience. The
authorities have in general met the targets of the ECF resulting in slight improvement in
the country’s macroeconomic fundamentals. The fiscal deficit in 2013 was reduced to
around 4 percent of GDP, with the medium-term framework envisaging a further
reduction in the deficit to below 3 percent by 2016. Public debt has fallen to below
50 percent of GDP (down from close to 60 percent of GDP in 2010) and liquidity buffers
have improved.

       •   Staffing and management: Wages in public sector are too low and the staff
           turnover is still high. The government will need to reform public sector in
           terms of human resources management and public sector wages. The 2013
           civil service pay reform is a step in the right direction, but it would have to be
           effectively implemented over the medium term.

Follow-on projects. The Economic Recovery Operation (ERSO), a single tranche
development policy operation approved in 2011, provided budget financing to the Kyrgyz
Republic after the 2010 conflict and supported critical reforms in the areas of public
sector governance, transparency, and accountability.

The programmatic series of two Development Policy Operations (DPOs) was launched in
2012 to support the efforts of the Kyrgyz authorities to promote growth through
improving public sector governance and enhancing the business environment. The first
Programmatic Development Policy Operation (DPO-1), in the amount of US$25 million,
was approved in July 2013. It supported early reform steps in the areas of governance,
public financial management, private sector development, judicial reform, and energy.
Under the DPO-1 the authorities developed a comprehensive action plan to improve
transparency, accountability, and governance in the energy sector. Under the second
operation in the programmatic series (DPO-2), negotiated on April 7-8, 2014 in the
amount of US$25 million, the energy sector-related prior action supported greater
transparency of the public sector entities in the energy sector, by publication of the
monthly balances on their accounts, quarterly performance indicators and annual audited
financial statements.


                                            11
In addition, World Bank interventions in the human development (HD) sector (Human
and Social Protection Project, Education Sector Reform etc.) also helped ensure resources
are allocated to social sectors.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objective. The objective of the ERP was and remains relevant, timely and
appropriate to the needs of the country’s social and economic development. The
objective was consistent with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note 3 (ISN), which places
substantive emphasis on countervailing the key causes of conflict through its focus on
governance and accountability, support for social services and infrastructure, and
protection of essential spending during the process of fiscal consolidation. It is also
consistent with the FY13-17 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) which aims at
improving governance, focusing on: (i) public administration and service delivery;
(ii) business environment; and (iii) management of natural resources and infrastructure.

The objective is also in line with the 2013-2017 National Sustainable Development
Strategy (NSDS) of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic (GOKR) which provides the
strategic framework for the achievement of objective of establishing a democratic state
with stable political system, dynamic economic growth and growing incomes of its
citizens in the next five-year period.

Relevance of design and implementation. The core design of the project and
implementation arrangements remain highly relevant. The project activities were
instrumental in achieving the PDO. Likewise, despite suffering delays initially,
implementation process of ERP had also turned out, eventually, to be effective and
efficient for achieving the project objective.

Rating: Considering these factors, the relevance of objective, design, and
implementation is rated High.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its objective. The highlights of the
project’s achievements are given in the following Table:




3
    The ISN was discussed by the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors in August 2011.


                                                    12
Indicator                                                 Target               Actual Value
Ensure adequate budget financing for                        7.00                      12.40
education, health and social allowances for the
poor, measured as percent of GDP
Restore access to power supply in the cities and         19,000                     19,000
rural areas of Jalalabad and Osh regions as
measured by number of re-connected
households
Maintain the heat supply availability in Osh in          100.00        107% in 2010/2011
2010/11 and 2011/12 winters at levels                                  153% in 2011/2012
equivalent to corresponding periods in                                 133% in 2012/2013
2009/2010 winter as measured by percentage                                 comparing with
of available heat output                                                 2009/2010 winter
Arrears for teacher and doctor salaries,                    0.00                       0.00
pensions, social allowances (UMB and MSB)
Number of restored gas connections                        1,224                      1,235
Fuel oil supply for Osh CHP (tons)                       17,400        23,300 tons in 2011
                                                                       21,700 tons in 2012

The details of the project’s major outcomes and achievements are as follows:
Component 1
Retroactive payment. US$29 million was used as retroactive payment towards gas
purchases from Uzbekistan to ensure availability of supplies for winter heating and to
free up budget resources for the government to finance high priority expenditures. This
money was disbursed soon after the start of the project, in early October 2010.
The provided financing, together with the assistance of other donors, was critical in
meeting the financing needs of the budget and preserving fiscal solvency. The rapid
budget support component of the ERP added around 0.6 percent of GDP to government
revenues, which together with the 0.7 percent of GDP provided by the IMF covered a
significant part of the 2010 budget financing needs and kept public debt below 55 percent
of GDP (and also mostly on concessional terms). Follow-on projects by the Bank (ERSO)
and other IFIs (Extended Credit Facility by the IMF) provided support in 2011.
Financing purchase of textbooks, furniture, and computer for schools. The details are
as follows:
    •   Prepress and replication of textbooks for the schools: 27 textbooks with total
        circulation of 1.05 million copies were printed. The textbooks covered grades 4–
        11 with Kyrgyz, Russian and Uzbek languages of education.                Another
        20 textbooks with total circulation of about 0.97 million copies were printed for
        school grades 6–11 with Kyrgyz, Russian and Uzbek languages of education. The
        textbooks were distributed to 2,201 schools.
    •   School Furniture for regional schools: 8,155 items of school furniture were
        provided to 112 schools in the Kyrgyz Republic, including: Osh region – 19
        schools, 1,584 items; Jalal Abad region – 22 schools, 1,616 items; Batken


                                               13
       region – 10 schools, 688 items; Talas region – 12 schools, 864 items; Naryn
       region – 12 schools, 736 items; and Chui region – 37 schools, 2,667 items.
   •   Computer equipment for regional schools: Computers were provided to 160
       schools in the Kyrgyz Republic, in`cluding: Osh region – 100 schools, 600 sets;
       Jalal Abad region – 27 schools, 162 sets; Batken region – 17 schools, 102 sets;
       Talas region – 1 school, 6 sets; Naryn region – 5 schools, 30 sets; and Chui
       Region – 10 schools, 60 sets.
Component 2
Purchasing and installing equipment. The project financed purchasing and installing
the following: 6/0.4 kV and 10/0.4 kV complete distribution substations and distribution
transformers of different capacity, 35/6 kV 10,000 kVA transformer, motorized vehicles,
switchgears for protection and control, reinforced concrete poles, cables, wires, power
and gas meters, fuel oil for Osh CHP and boiler houses of Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz
(KJKS), and other essentially needed materials, equipment, and spare parts; construction
machinery and equipment such as cranes, excavators, bulldozers.
Renovation of Individual Heating Sub-stations (IHSs). Bishkek city district heating
company installed about 200 new individual heating substations for better and more
efficient supply of heat and hot water to consumers. The new substations provide
significant reliability and quality of heat supply and are located in the apartment block
basements.

Rehabilitation of heating pipelines. The project supported rehabilitation of about 10 km
of selected segments of the distribution district heating network by replacing the most
severely damaged, corroded and leaking pipes with modern pre-insulated pipes.

Rehabilitation and/or construction of transmission lines. In Osh and Jalalabad regions,
the power distribution companies rehabilitated a number of segments of existing
electrical distribution lines (by replacing old wood poles with new concrete ones and
replacing old wires with new of higher section), as well as constructed new short lines in
the newly constructed areas of the cities (both underground and overhead).

Construction of a new electrical substation. Under the project Oshelectro constructed a
new 35/10 kV substation which is relatively small in size (about 30x30 meters) and
located within the existing right-of way corridor. All construction activities have been
coordinated with the city authorities and have been done based on design documents,
approved by all interested parties, including environmental authorities.

Installation of new transformers. Oshelectro and Jalalabadelectro, as well as other two
power distribution companies in the Kyrgyz Republic, have installed a number of new
distribution substations. They have been installed in the overloaded segments of
distribution systems and new residential areas to ensure a reliable energy supply to the
local population.

Replacement of old transformers. A number of old power distribution transformers were
replaced with new ones with increased capacity.
                                           14
Power generation. To ensure reliable power generation, high voltage facilities and parts
were delivered to the Naryn River HPPs.

CASA-1000 consultants. As part of the ERP, the MOE hired two international
consultants (legal and commercial) and one local legal consultant to serve as country
advisors for the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in preparing for the negotiations on
core CASA-1000 project agreements. Both legal and commercial advisors worked
closely with the members of the Kyrgyz Republic CASA-1000 working group and the
Kyrgyz members of the CASA-1000 Intergovernmental Council. Advisors provided
timely advice on how to better structure the Core Agreements and adequately protect the
country's interests as well as in better understanding the CASA-1000 financial model,
accurately calculating the costs of Kyrgyz power exports and estimating of potential
export prices.

PR campaign and Website. The ERP financed a public relations company and web-
designer in an attempt to develop and implement an effective public relations campaign
explaining the key problems facing the sector and raise public awareness. Key staff of
the MOE and those from sector entities were trained on communicating key messages
based on the results of the undertaken survey to various audiences. A regular practice of
organizing bi-weekly meetings with the media representatives was established with the
major reform issues from the Action Plan on reforming the energy sector being discussed.
Finally, a new-website was developed for the MOE which is more user-friendly and
contains important documents concerning the sector and its performance (including
financial statements of the companies, key performance indicators, and statements from
special accounts).

A technical audit of the project was conducted in December 2013 by an independent
auditing firm. It covered 46 contracts out of a total of 144 fixed assets procurement
contracts implemented under the project. The auditor's main comments were related to
lack of clarity in roles and responsibilities; delayed execution of contracts, payments and
installation of procured equipment; and validation of quality of supplied goods.
Management of the Ministry of Energy and Industry and its PIU responded to all key
points raised in the audit report by providing clarifications about division of
responsibilities between the Ministry/PIU and the energy companies that received the
equipment procured under the project, measures taken in the case of supplier's failure to
deliver on time, established practices with respect to verifying quality of goods and
scheduling installation of equipment.

3.3 Efficiency

The ERP was prepared under streamlined procedures and was part of a broader response
to the crisis needs of the Kyrgyz Republic (both budgetary and energy supply system)
thus making it difficult to quantify and directly attribute a definite part of any
improvement observed to the project. Still, the ERP satisfied the three key criteria that
the economic analysis addresses, namely: i) contributing to the country’s socioeconomic

                                            15
development, ii) having a rationale for the public sector provision, and iii) leveraging the
value added of the Bank’s support.

The retroactive financing provided under component 1 assisted the authorities in
preserving macroeconomic stability and financing high priority expenditures during the
crisis period. This allowed the authorities to support people’s incomes at times when
labor income and remittances were affected thus improving living conditions and
stimulating economic activity. With wages falling in real terms during the crisis, it was
higher social spending (up 47 percent) and timely payment of government obligations
that preserved disposable income and supported consumption.

Regarding component 2, by improving availability and reliability of power and heat
supply, and reducing the frequency of outages, the project, together with the other actions
implemented in the system, helped to reduce economic losses. According to the
regulatory department, the losses in the power distribution network declined from
26.7 percent of electricity supplied in 2010 to 17.9 percent in 2013 thus reducing the
quasi-fiscal deficit. However, sustainably reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit will require
adjusting prices closer to cost-recovery. In addition, the number of power outages
declined by almost a quarter between 2011 and 2013, helping Kyrgyz businesses.
According to BEEPS, Kyrgyz manufacturing companies experienced, on average, 10.8
power outages in 2013 costing firms that experienced power outages 4.1 percent of
annual sales. The reduction in sales lost due to power outages could be as high as
1.5 percent of annual sales. Furthermore, according to BEEPS, electricity is no longer
the biggest obstacle to doing business in the Kyrgyz Republic (currently ranked as the 5th
biggest obstacle) and at the same time, businesses reported lower losses due to outages.
Lower power outages are also very important for the population, as electricity is the
major source for lighting, cooking and heating. This is especially true for the poor;
according to the Integrated Household Survey (2012) one-third of the poor use electricity
for heating and over three-quarters use it for cooking. In 2012, 21.1 percent of
households experienced power outages once a month or more frequently compared to a
very high 38.6 percent in 2010.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

Relevance. As explained in Section 3.1, the relevance of objectives, design, and
implementation is rated as High.

Achievement of PDOs. As explained in Section 3.2, the project has many achievements
to its credit. Thus, achievement of the PDO is rated as Satisfactory.

Based on the above factors and the discussion in sections 3.1 and 3.2, the overall outcome
is rated Satisfactory.




                                            16
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts.

The GDP decline and the turmoil of 2010 increased the poverty rate in the Kyrgyz
Republic by 2 percentage points to 33.7 percent of the population. Still, the broad support
effort, which included the ERP, helped avert a much worse scenario for the Kyrgyz
Republic in 2010 and is expected to have had a significant poverty impact. With a semi-
elasticity of growth on poverty of around -0.7 during 2000-2012, avoiding the scenario of
3.5 percent contraction in GDP in 2010 (mid-2010 projections in the JEA) may have
helped around 2 percent of the population avoid falling into poverty. 4 Preserving fiscal
solvency in the immediate aftermath of the turmoil helped that authorities meet their
obligations on wages and social payments and support purchasing power of the
population. In addition, restoring power connections and upgrading of the stability of the
power system is likely to have contributed to improved living conditions and preserved
jobs, including for the poor. More specifically:

    •   The project facilitated in restoring the business of entrepreneurs and business
        people who suffered financial losses and damaged properties. The government
        was able to utilize project funds to support and compensate those affected people.
    •   The project benefited staff employed in public administration and recipients of
        social assistance by allowing the government to remain solvent and timely pay
        wages and benefits.
    •   Provision of improved power supply has enabled business people and
        entrepreneurs to generate more income.
    •   The project helped poor people to receive a more reliable heating and power
        supply in those areas which were hard hit by the conflicts. As noted in the
        economic analysis section, the frequency of outages declined significantly
        between 2010 and 2013.
    •   The project also provided services to schools which would benefit children in
        terms of receiving better education, which in turn will have a positive impact on
        poverty alleviation in the long run.

Gender Aspects. The project did not have a specific gender component; however, the
activities extended financial support also to women entrepreneurs who were adversely
affected by the conflicts and enabled them to restore their income earning capacity. The
government’s social programs financially assisted women who lost their husbands or



4
  This implies that a 1 percent growth in GDP per capita associated with reduction of the headcount poverty
rate by 0.7 percentage points; based on authors’ calculations.


                                                    17
breadwinners because of the conflicts. In addition, restoring electricity and heating
supply benefited women and children staying home, especially during winter season.

Social Development. The project financed a number of activities that are critical for
social development. Around US$28 million financed under Component 1 has assisted
the government to meet its social obligations such as social security benefits, allowances
to unemployed people, and payment of salary to government employees. In addition, the
remaining funds were spent to improve access and quality of education as well as
improve the energy sector performance, both sectors critical for social inclusion.

Analyses conducted subsequently on the conflict potential in Kyrgyz Republic have
shown that the country’s situation has improved compared to 2010. For example, in
November 2010, only 30 percent of the population felt the country was going in the right
direction; this percentage increased to 57 percent in February 2012. Even in the South,
more than 50 percent feel that the country was moving in the right direction. Also, 36
percent of the population reported an improved economic situation in February 2012
compared to 19 percent in May 2011. By allowing the government to finance its social
obligations as well as helping restore energy supply, the ERP may have implicitly
supported these outcomes.

On the other hand, a significant number feel that the situation is non-improving so the
potential for turmoil, though diminished, is still there. For instance, a recent survey
conducted by the International Republican Institute found that between 33 and 46 percent
fear ethnic conflict and civil war as one of their top three fears.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Even though the project did not result in building any new institutions or any new laws, it
has resulted in capacity building and knowledge transfer within existing institutions. For
instance:

   •   Training programs and handholding support extended under the project has
       strengthened the capacity of the PIU and government staff on financial
       management and procurement, especially on the importance of transparency in
       procurement management.
   •   The project has also encouraged the government to look at having revised
       procurement law.
   •   Further, the project also ensured that all institutions are in place and that they
       were maintaining their regular functions without any disruptions after 2010.
   •   The technical assistance provided by the ERP built capacity in the Ministry of
       Energy and Industry (MOEI) on communicating important reforms to the broader
       public and negotiating strategic projects in the sector. This will be of critical
       importance as the country’s moves to reform its power sector, including raising
       tariffs gradually to cost-recovery levels.


                                            18
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

During the implementation of the ERP, the World Bank team had communications with a
non-government organization (NGO) that expressed concerns regarding the procurement
procedures followed during the procurement of printing services for textbooks and the
quality of the textbooks. The World Bank team worked closely with the Ministry of
Education to ensure that the textbooks printed were in line with the prevailing school
curricula and were of sufficient quality and that appropriate procurement procedures were
followed.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

   •   The political situation has stabilized since the revolution in 2010, but the nascent
       democracy continues to face challenges which are keeping the political risks
       elevated such as the risk of political protests and violence. For example, relations
       remain strained in parts of the country as the legacy of the 2010 events, and
       especially in the South. This is illustrated by a range of survey data and a
       comparison of such data from 2004 and 2014.
   •   The medium-term fiscal prospects are also challenging. A slowdown in economic
       activity, together with loss of nontax revenues from the closure of Manas transit
       center in mid-2014 is creating fiscal pressures. The authorities, supported by the
       IMF, are preparing a tax strategy that will outline tax policy and administration
       reforms that can support revenues. On the expenditure side, the World Bank’s
       PER noted the need to revisit the design of social assistance programs, better
       manage the public sector wage-bill, improve efficiency in education spending,
       introduce cost-recovery in the energy sector etc. Still, given the difficulty of some
       of these reforms, significant risks remain.
   •   Macroeconomic risks are also substantial. Sustained lower growth in Russia
       would weaken inflows of remittances and Kyrgyz exports. Also, another
       disruption in gold production (similar to 2012) or significant decline in gold
       prices will negatively impact the external balance. A large fiscal deficit, failure to
       control expenditures or a disruption to the gold production process could
       jeopardize sustainability.
   •   There are substantial risks due to the low capacity of public administration,
       including on ability to design and implement policies, transparency,
       accountability and fiduciary management.
   •   The viability of the energy sector has improved but remains challenging. While
       some critical investments are being undertaken, the poor financial performance of

                                            19
       the sector has led to severe under-investment. In addition, governance in the
       sector remains weak, including opaque arrangement for operations and financial
       flows and an overall poor regulatory environment. In response, the government
       adopted the 2012-2015 Power Sector Development Strategy and a more detailed
       Action Plan for Reforming the Energy Sector in 2013-14 with the following
       objectives: (i) increasing efficiency and transparency in the sector;
       (ii) development of a medium-term tariff policy to be accompanied by adequate
       social protection schemes; and (iii) advancing energy investments. The legal
       framework is being amended to allow clear delineation of powers and
       responsibilities in the sector and transparent accounting and monitoring. In
       addition, the Regulatory Department is improving the key performance indicators
       for the energy sector companies and developing a new tariff methodology based
       on best international practices.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory with the project being processed from identification to effectiveness
stages within three months. The identification process focused on critical gaps and
opportunities for interventions in Kyrgyz Republic’s economic, social and energy sectors.
The project was consistent with the government’s development priorities and the Bank’s
Joint Country Support Strategy (JCSS) to support implementation of the Country
Development Strategy (CDS) covering FY07–10. The components covered were clearly
identified as priorities in the Joint Economic Assessment.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management. In addition, major risk
factors and lessons learned from the Bank’s earlier emergency operations were
incorporated into the project design.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during
preparation and appraisal. Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number
of specialists who provided the necessary technical skill mix. The Bank provided
adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and financing to ensure quality preparation
and appraisal work.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory


                                           20
Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The task
team focused on the project’s development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient budget
and staff resources, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored.
The task team regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted counterparts at the Government
of the Kyrgyz Republic (GOKR) and PIU about issues found during project execution
and facilitated prompt corrective action. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of
development objectives and project implementation.

Bank’s procurement and financial management staff worked with PIU staff to explain the
rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with regard to
procurement of goods and works, and selection of consultants, accounts and audits, based
on the Credit and Grant Agreements. The Bank's technical team provided support and
visited sites as part of implementation supervision activities and ensured safeguard
compliance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

With a Satisfactory rating for quality at entry and a Satisfactory rating for quality of
supervision, overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory in accordance with IEG’s
harmonized rating criteria.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the interim government had shown its commitment to the
objective of the project at the time of project preparation, and government was able to
manage the situation well after the 2010 conflicts. Subsequent administrations which
came to power after the election in 2011 were also generally committed to the project and
performed reasonably well.

The MOF, MOEI, and other government officials worked closely with the Bank's project
team on a continual basis, and cooperated fully with the task team. However, due to lack
of experience in dealing with an unusual and fast-paced type of project, at times
government officials were not sure of dealing with certain implementation issues. Also,
with the division of powers still evolving in response to the constitutional changes
introduced in 2010, less-than-full clarity regarding roles and responsibilities of various
branches of government (Parliament vs. executive) delayed the processing of the
extension and restructuring in 2012 and required the processing of a retroactive extension
in March, 2013.



                                           21
Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability
and follow-up were observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Responsibility for project implementation was split, with Component 1 implemented by a
PIU at the MOF with support from a PIU at the Ministry of Education for education
related activities and Component 2 implemented by JEPIG, a PIU reporting to the MOEI,
supported by the energy companies that were final beneficiaries of the project activities.
The capacity of the implementing agencies varied from strong in the MOF PIU to
adequate at the MOEI, though some coordination issues were initially experienced in
communication with the energy companies. The relatively limited ability of the
government to coordinate activities was, at times, also reflected in the relations between
the PIUs. This situation was identified during project preparation and the PD envisaged
further strengthening of JEPIG capacity as well as a phased approach to project activities;
still, establishing effective arrangements took more than initially expected. As project
implementation progressed and with significant Bank support, functioning
implementation arrangements were established. The twin PIU implementation
arrangement was preserved until the close of the operation with the MOF PIU handling
the financial management and disbursement for the entire project.

Financial Management Review. The financial management (FM) arrangements at the
MOF PIU, including accounting, reporting, budgeting and staffing, overall were assessed
to be adequate and acceptable to the Bank. The PIU had acceptable planning and
budgeting capacity in place. PIU’s internal controls system in general was assessed to be
capable of providing timely information and reporting on the project. The Financial
Manager of the PIU performed the reconciliation of the Bank disbursement data with the
project’s accounting records via Client Connection after each application was sent and
payment received. The Financial Management Manuals (FMMs) were in place and
properly described internal controls, disbursement, financial reporting and accounting
policies and procedures.

Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services
under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines “Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits”. During most of the implementation period the project procurement
performance was rated as Moderately Satisfactory because of delays, mostly on the part
of the final beneficiaries of the ERP, in preparing technical specification and evaluation
of bids in energy component which also led to extension of the project closing date by
one year. Despite procurement delays in energy component, considering the utilization
of funds and comparing with similar emergency operations in other regions, the overall
procurement performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory.




                                            22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

With a Satisfactory rating for Government performance and a Moderately Satisfactory
rating for the performance of final beneficiaries, overall borrower performance is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory in accordance with IEG’s harmonized rating criteria.

6. Lessons Learned

   •   It is important to set up functioning implementation arrangements (i.e. in this
       particular case, to sign a subsidiary agreement between the MOEI and energy
       companies) before project effectiveness so that implementation is not delayed
       unnecessarily. Further, better coordination between the MOF and MOEI would
       avoid unnecessary delays and ensure smoother project implementation.
   •   For an emergency project such as ERP, it is imperative to ensure that the PIU has
       qualified and competent staff who are familiar with the Bank’s procedures,
       especially on procurement and financial management.
   •   It will be useful that the operational manuals are developed and shared with PIU’s
       and all implementing entities to get staff familiarized with project management
       and other procedures so that even if there is a high staff turnover, the transition
       would be smooth and project implementation would not be adversely affected.
   •   In order to avoid delayed submission of audit reports and breach financial
       covenants, it is essential to select the auditors in time.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy and Industry provided their
contributions, which are attached as Annex 7 to this ICR. Neither institution had any
substantive comments on the draft ICR.

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                            23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                            Appraisal Estimate Actual /Latest Estimate        Percentage of
      Components
                              (US$ million)        (US$ million)               Appraisal
Component 1. High                  35.0                   33.8                    96.57
Priority Expenditures
Pertaining to Emergency
Recovery and
Reconstruction
Component 2.                       35.0                   36.7                   104.86
Rehabilitation and Repair
of Energy Infrastructure
and Networks
Total Baseline Cost                70.0                   70.5                   100.71
Total Project Costs                70.0                   70.5                   100.71
Total Financing                    70.0                                   -
Required

(b) Co-financing

                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                               Type of                                         Percentage of
Source of Funds                             Estimate        Estimate
                              Financing                                         Appraisal
                                          (US$ million)   (US$ million)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                              0.0             0.0                  0.0
International Development                     70.0               70.5             100.71
Association (IDA) (of
which US$15m is from
CRW)




                                             24
      Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1. High Priority Expenditures Pertaining to Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Budgetary support through retroactive financing for an amount of US$28,836,505 for: (i) supporting social spending,
and (ii) paying off arrears in budget payments on protected items. The approved list of goods under this component
included: fuel, gas, office furniture and computer equipment, textbooks, equipment, furniture and supplies, trucks and
spare parts, telecommunications equipment, and basic medical equipment.
In addition, this component provided financing for critical education sector expenditures. The details are as follows:
(i)   Prepress and replication of textbooks for the schools: 27 items of textbooks with total circulation of 1.05
      million copies were printed. The list of textbooks covered grade 4–11 with Kyrgyz, Russian and Uzbek languages
      of education. Another 20 textbooks with total circulation of about 0.97 million copies were printed for grades 6–
      11 with Kyrgyz, Russian and Uzbek languages of education. These textbooks were distributed to 2,201 schools.
(ii) School Furniture for regional schools: 8,155 items of school furniture were provided to 112 schools of the
      Republic, including: Osh region – 19 schools, 1,584 items; Jalal Abad region – 22 schools, 1,616 items; Batken
      region – 10 schools, 688 items; Talas region – 12 schools, 864 items; Naryn region – 12 schools, 736 items; and
      Chui region – 37 schools, 2,667 items.
(iii) Computer equipment for regional schools: Computers were provided to 160 schools of the Republic, including:
      Osh region – 100 schools, 600 sets; Jalal Abad region – 27 schools, 162 sets; Batken region – 17 schools, 102
      sets; Talas region – 1 school, 6 sets; Naryn region – 5 schools, 30 sets; and Chui region – 10 schools, 60 sets.
Component 2. Rehabilitation and Repair of Energy Infrastructure and Networks
Purchasing and installing equipment. The project financed purchasing and installing the following: 6/0.4 kV and
10/0.4 kV complete distribution substations and distribution transformers of different capacity, 35/6 kV 10,000 kVA
transformer, motorized vehicles, switchgears for protection and control, reinforced concrete poles, cables, wires, power
and gas meters, fuel oil for Osh CHP and boiler houses of Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz (KJKS), and other essentially
needed materials, equipment, and spare parts; construction machinery and equipment such as cranes, excavators,
bulldozers.
Renovation of Individual Heating Sub-stations (IHSs). Bishkek city district heating company installed about 200 new
individual heating substations for better and more efficiency supply of heat and hot water to end-user consumers.

Rehabilitation of heating pipelines. The project supported rehabilitation of about 10 km of selected segments of the
distribution district heating network by replacing the most severely damaged, corroded and leaking pipes with modern
pre-insulated pipes.
Rehabilitation and/or construction of transmission lines. In Osh and Jalalabat regions, the power distribution
companies rehabilitated a number of segments of existing electrical distribution lines (by replacing old wood poles
with the new concrete ones and replacing old wires with new of higher section) as well as constructed new short lines
in the newly constructed areas of the cities (both underground and overhead).
Construction of a new electrical substation. Under the project Oshelectro constructed a new 35/10 kV substation which
is relatively small in size (about 30x30 meters) and located within the existing right-of way corridor.
Installation of new transformers. Oshelectro and Jalalabatelectro, as well as other two power distribution companies in
the Kyrgyz Republic, have installed a number of new distribution substations. They have been installed in the
overloaded segments of distribution systems and new residential areas to ensure a reliable energy supply to the local
population.
Replacement of old transformers. A number of old power distribution transformers were replaced with the new ones
with increased capacity.
Power generation. To ensure reliable power generation, high voltage facilities and parts were delivered to the Naryn
River HPPs.




                                                           25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic and financial analysis at appraisal

The program document for the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) did not include
quantitative estimates (NPV, ERR, FRR, Cost-Benefit Analysis, Cost-Effectiveness
Analysis) of the project’s anticipated economic and financial net benefits.

The ERP was prepared under streamlined procedures and was part of a broader response
to the crisis needs of the Kyrgyz Republic (both budgetary and energy supply system)
thus making it difficult to quantify and directly attribute a definite part of the any
improvement observed to the project. Still, the ERP satisfied the three key criteria that the
economic analysis addresses, namely: i) contributing to the country’s socioeconomic
development, ii) having a rationale for the public sector provision, and iii) leveraging the
value added of the Bank’s support.

The rapid budget support provided under component 1 was critical in preserving
macroeconomic stability and safeguarding fiscal ability to support high priority
expenditures needed for the emergency program. In addition, the ERP PD indicated that
the economic losses due to the energy sector crisis were substantial and that the sector
represented a key weakness in the economy and a major source of risk to social stability
and possible renewed conflict. The public sector had clear mandate to deliver the
program supported by the ERP, while the Bank’s strategy of emergency support was built
upon its traditional strengths: diagnosis of the impact of the crisis and an assessment of
emergency needs; promotion of cooperation amongst donors to ensure adequate financing
of the emergency needs; and its own financial and advisory contribution to support
recovery and rehabilitation.

Post-completion assessment of economic benefits

The retroactive financing provided under component 1 assisted the authorities in
preserving macroeconomic stability and financing high priority expenditures during the
crisis period. This allowed the authorities to support people’s incomes at times when
labor income and remittances were affected thus improving living conditions and
stimulating economic activity. With wages falling in real terms during the crisis, it was
higher social spending (up 47 percent) and timely payment of government obligations
that preserved disposable income and supported consumption. Total consumption
increased by 1.9 percent in 2010 and partially offset the reduction in investments and
exports caused by the turmoil.

Regarding component 2, by improving the availability and reliability of heating and
power supply, and reducing the frequency of outages, the project, together with the other
actions implemented in the system, helped to reduce economic losses. The assessment of
the project’s economic benefits has been made by combining qualitative information with


                                             26
quantitative estimates where possible and refers to the combined effect of the project and
other actions being pursued by the Government and the implementing entities.

According to the regulatory department, the losses in the power distribution network
declined from 26.7 percent of electricity supplied in 2010 to 17.9 percent in 2013 thus
reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit. However, sustainably reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit
will require adjusting prices closer to cost-recovery. In addition, the number of power
outages declined by almost a quarter between 2011 and 2013. Also, the Ministry of
Economy reported that unmet demand has declined from 36 percent in 2007 to 20 percent
in 2011. The economic costs of the unmet demand were estimated at 10 percent of GDP
and the recent improvement is expected to have lowered this ratio further.

A more stable power supply is helping Kyrgyz businesses. Combining this information
with data Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) on costs to
manufacturing firms of an average power outage can provide an indication of the
economic impact of the reduced number of outages. According to BEEPS, Kyrgyz
manufacturing companies experienced, on average, 10.8 power outages in 2013 costing
firms that experienced power outages 4.1 percent of annual sales. The reduction in sales
lost due to power outages could be as high as 1.5 percent of annual sales. BEEPS results
confirm the improvement in the electricity supply (though the comparison in BEEPS is
made to 2008). According to BEEPS, electricity is no longer the biggest obstacle to doing
business (as it was in 2008) in the Kyrgyz Republic and is currently ranked as the fifth
biggest obstacle by businesses and at the same time, businesses reported lower losses due
to outages.

Lower power outages are also very important for the population, as electricity is the
major source for lighting, cooking and heating. This is especially true for the poor;
according to the Integrated Household Survey (2012) one-third of the poor use electricity
for heating and over three-quarters use it for cooking. In 2012, 21.1 percent of
households experienced power outages once a month or more frequently. This ratio was
26.3 percent in 2011 and a very high 38.6 percent in 2010, confirming the results that
power outages have declined substantially since 2010. The impact of the reduced power
outages should be bigger for the poor who, unlike the non-poor, cannot afford to resort to
back-up options for electricity (e.g. diesel generators).

However, sustaining the benefits of the ERP and recent investments of the authorities
would require concerted efforts to improve the financial viability and governance in the
sector.




                                           27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
Names                       Title                                 Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Supervision
Achath, Sati                Consultant                            SASDU   Consultant
Aldayarov, Mirlan           Senior Energy Specialist              ECSEG   Energy Specialist
Almanbetova, Asel           Program Assistant                     ECCKG   Program Assistant
Babirye, Sarah Nankya       Program Assistant                     ECSP1   Program Assistant
Balabanyan, Ani             Senior Energy Specialist              ECSEG   Energy Specialist
Beknazarova, Jyldyz         Executive Assistant                   ECCKG   Executive Assistant
Bure, Jacques               Lead Transport Specialist             ECSTR   Transport Specialist
Capcelea, Arcadii           Senior Environmental Specialist       ECSEN   Environmental Specialist
Chargynov, Zamir            Consultant                            ECSEG   Consultant
Djoldosheva, Dinara         Senior Country Officer                ECCKG   Senior Country Officer
Dubashov, Bakyt             Economist                             ECSP1   Economist
Duraiswamy, Naresha         Senior Operations Officer             ECSSD   Senior Operations Officer
Fukui, Katsuyuki            Senior Power Engineer                 ECSEG   Power Engineer
Gibson, Daniel              Lead Social Development Specialist    ECSOQ   Social Development
Goncharova, Irina           Procurement Specialist                ECSO2   Procurement Specialist
Houdar, Fabrice             Country Officer                       ECCU*   Country Officer
Iskakov, Marat              Consultant                            ECSP1   Consultant
Jarosewich-Holder, Martha   Consultant                            ECSEG   Consultant
Khosla, Sunil Kumar         Lead Energy Specialist                ECSEG   Energy Specialist
Kiss, Agi                   Lead Ecologist and Regional           ECSOQ
                            Safeguards Coordinator
Koilpillai, Hanna M.        Senior Finance Officer                CTRFC Finance Officer
Kurmanaliev, Nurbek         Procurement Specialist                ECSO2
Mironova, Iuliia            Consultant                            ECSP1 Consultant
Alexandrovna
Mitra, Saumya               Consultant                            ECSP1   Consultant
Mwenda, Kenneth             Senior Counsel                        LEGEM   Counsel
Myroshnychenko, Yuriy       Senior Energy Specialist              ECSEG   Energy Specialist
Najdov, Evgenij             Senior Economist                      ECSP1   TTL
Nekaien-Nowrouz, Zakia      Program Assistant                     ECSP1   Program Assistant
Ogallo, John Otieno         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   OPSOR   Financial Management Specialist
Rozowska, Anita             Consultant                            ECROC   Consultant
Sedghi, Afsaneh             Senior Economist                      ECSP1   TTL
Shmidt, Oxana               Program Assistant                     ECCKA   Program Assistant
Siagian, Joseph Daulat      Information Assistant                 SECPO   Information Assistant
Marsangap
Swami, Rajeev Kumar         Lead Financial Management Specialist EASFM    Financial Management Specialist
Vatyan, Arman               Sr. Financial Management Specialist ECSO3     Financial Management Specialist
Worley, Heather B.          Sr. Communication Officer            ECSEG    Communications Officer
Youness, Ghada              Senior Counsel                       LEGEM    Counsel
Zhou, Yuling                Lead Procurement Specialist          EASR2    Procurement Specialist



                                                  28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                          US$ Thousands (including
                            No. of staff weeks travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY10                                  53.41                   252,510.80

Total:                                  53.41                   252,510.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY11-FY14                             60.72                   382,435.96

Total:                                  60.72                   382,435.96




                            29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                  31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A. Ministry of Finance

Introduction – General Information on “Emergency Recovery Project”

IDA Credit Amount No. 4825-KG         US$ 38.2 mln. (SDR 21,100,000)
IDA Grant Amount No. H618-KG          US$ 31.8 mln. (SDR 25,300,000)
Agreement signing date:               October 1, 2010
                                      Decree of Temporal Government of KR
Agreement ratification date:
                                      Dated October 7, 2010, N 13
Date of entering into force:          October 8, 2010
Date of closing the Project:          December 31, 2013
                                      Ministry of Finance of KR (MOF KR)
Executive agencies:
                                      Ministry of Energy of KR (MOE KR)
                                      Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MOF KR
Implementing Agencies:                Joint Energy Project Implementation Group (JEPIG)
                                      under the MOE KR
Total used:
On Grant Part                         US$ 32,916,720.30
On Credit Part                        US$ 37,593,959.79

Project development objective:

The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (a) strengthening the prospects
for macroeconomic stability and the government’s fiscal resilience to meet the priority
needs of its emergency recovery and reconstruction program; and (b) restoring and
ensuring continuous provision of the basic energy (power/heat/gas) services with a focus
on the affected areas so as to support economic output and provide adequate heating to
population during the winter.

The project included two components:
    (i) High priority expenditures pertaining to emergency recovery and reconstruction,
         and
    (ii) Rehabilitation and repair of energy infrastructure and networks.

1. Summary of «Emergency Recovery Project»

Component 1: High priority expenditures pertaining to emergency recovery and
reconstruction was implemented by Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the
Ministry of Finance of KR.




                                            32
Main Objective:
     (a) Provision of Eligible Essential Goods and Commodities as set forth in
         Schedule 4 of Financial Agreement.
     (b) Carrying out Project management activities in areas of implementation, audit,
         monitoring and evaluation as well as in coordination of Project management
         activities.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Repair of Energy Infrastructure and Networks
was implemented by Joint Energy Project Implementation Group (JEPIG) under the
MOE KR.

     (a) Restoring power, heat and gas supply to Affected Areas through the urgent
         repair and rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure and networks for electricity,
         heating and gas supply.
     (b) Carrying out the procurement of fuel for thermal power plants and district
         heating systems.
     (c) Rehabilitation and repair of power generation and distribution systems.
     (d) Completion of activities approved for financing under the Financing
         Agreement for Energy Emergency Assistance Project (Credit #4524-KG and
         Grant #H429-KG) relating to the rehabilitation of the electricity and heating
         systems of the Recipient’s Power Plants Company.
     (e) Carrying out Project management activities in areas of implementation, audit,
         monitoring and evaluation as well as in coordination of Project management
         activities.

Component 1. High Priority Expenditures Pertaining to Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction (US$35 million).

As detailed stated in Annex 4 of the Financial Agreement , the approved list of goods
included a fuel, gas, office furniture and computer equipment, textbooks , equipment,
furniture and supplies , trucks and spare parts , telecommunications equipment, and basic
medical equipment. There was conducted the analysis and evaluation of contracts from
November 2009 to September 1, 2010 to determine the retroactive financing for the
amount of up to US$28 million, which is acceptable to the Bank, and which may be
provided to finance the purchase of basic commodities , implemented and paid for twelve
months before signing this operation. There was collected documentation to support the
retroactive amount for the accelerated initiation of payments immediately after the entry
into force of the project

Thus, in November 2010, in accordance with Annex 1 of Emergency Project Paper, and
in accordance with item B of Section 4 of the Financial Agreement of the above project,
there was spent US$ 28,836,505 for retroactive financing, as budget support



                                           33
Originally, it was planned to equip only schools in the regions affected by the
disturbances caused by the political situation in the country , but later , due to the
shortfall of funding from the republican budget , and in accordance with the requests of
the Ministry of Education of KR, in order to improve the study environment and raise the
level of education in educational institutions of the Kyrgyz Republic , it was extremely
necessary to solve a number of priorities in education, namely equipping existing and
newly constructed schools in the Republic with textbooks , school furniture and computer
equipment. One of the obstacles to improving the quality of education is an acute
shortage of textbooks and instructional materials in schools of the Republic. Another
important task was to equip the existing and newly constructed schools in the country the
necessary school furniture and computer equipment. In this connection, the Ministry of
Education of KR has developed a list of educational institutions of Republic which need
equipment by textbooks, school furniture and computers.

Successful achievement of objectives on Component 1 is characterized by the following
data:

   1. Budgetary support through retroactive financing in the amount of US$ 28,836,505
      which allowed: (i) to support social spending in real terms (which were identified
      as education, health and social protection) in accordance with the budget, and (ii)
      to pay off debts in budget payments on protected items.

   2. In the result of produced procurement of computer equipment, furniture and
      replication of textbooks for schools of KR there has been significantly improved
      material-technical base of educational institutions throughout the country, which
      allowed the secondary schools students to use new textbooks, new school
      furniture and modern computer equipment. In particular, the important factor is
      the replication of textbooks in the Uzbek language, which allowed access to
      quality education for more children, and most importantly, different ethnic groups.

There was held the procurement of equipment and furniture for schools of KR as well as
replication of textbooks under the 4 international tenders:

Contract «Prepress and replication of textbooks for the schools of KR» between the
Ministry of Finance of KR and OJSC Uchkun. Under this contract there was replicated
27 items of textbooks with total circulation of 1,049,000 copies for the amount of
US$ 1,981,894.06. The list of textbooks covers 4 – 11 school classes with Kyrgyz,
Russian and Uzbek languages of education. All textbooks are delivered to all regional
educational departments throughout the Republic for further distribution to 2,201 schools.
Contract «Prepress and replication of textbooks for the schools of KR» between the
Ministry of Finance of KR and Joint Venture ST ART/Kirland. Under this contract
there was replicated 20 items of textbooks with total circulation of 974,730 copies for the
amount of US$ 1,673,632.77. The list of textbooks covers 6 – 11 school classes with
Kyrgyz, Russian and Uzbek languages of education. All textbooks are delivered to all
regional educational departments throughout the Republic for further distribution to
2,201 school.

                                            34
Contract “School Furniture for regional schools” between the Ministry of Finance
of KR and Mosmebel Ltd. Under this contract there was provided 8155 items of school
furniture for the amount of US$ 630,078.0 to the 112 schools of the Republic, including:
Osh oblast – 19 schools, 1,584 items, Jalal Abad oblast - 22 schools, 1,616 items, Batken
oblast -10 schools, 688 items, Talas oblast -12 schools, 864 items, Naryn oblast -12
schools, 736 items, Chui oblast -37 schools, 2,667 items.

Contract “Computer equipment for regional schools” between the Ministry of
Finance of KR and Sinobase Company. Under this contract there was provided
equipment for the amount of USS 496,400.00 to the 160 schools of the Republic,
including: Osh oblast -100 schools, 600 sets, Jalal Abad oblast -27 schools, 162 sets,
Batken oblast -17 schools, 102 sets, Talas oblast -1 school, 6 sets, Naryn oblast -5
schools, 30 sets, Chui oblast -10 schools, 60 sets.

2. Lessons Learned and Recommendations

When implementing the contracts for Prepress and replication of textbooks there have
been delays associated with the disagreement between the parties involved, in particular,
the Contractor and the publishers who prepare the books. To prevent such risks, the
potential contractor must provide an agreement with copyright holders before the signing
the contract or act in consortium with publishing houses. It would be useful to use these
lessons in the next projects with similar contracts

3. Indicators

In accordance with Annex 2 «Results Framework and Monitoring» of Emergency Project
Paper, on Component 1 there were determined the following indicators:

            Project Development Objective                (Preliminary) Project Outcome Indicators
PDO is to assist the Kyrgyz Republic in:              PO – 1: Support of budget financing for
(a) Strengthening the prospects for macroeconomic     education, health and social allowances and
stability and the government’s fiscal resilience to   real calculated transfers as in the budget for
meet the priority needs of its emergency recovery     August 2010:
and reconstruction program through the giving the
necessary liquidity


Intermediate Results                                   Intermediate Results Indicators
Component 1:                                           Budget support through the retroactive
                                                       financing in the amount of US$ 28,836,505,
Payments of teacher and doctor salaries, pensions,     which allowed:       (i) support the social
social allowances (UMB and MSB)                        expenditures in real calculation (which were
                                                       determined as education, health and social
                                                       protection) in accordance with budget; and
                                                       (ii) to pay debts in budget payments on
                                                       protected articles.




                                                 35
In general, according to the opinion of Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the
implementation of Component 1 of the project should be considered a successful, and
indicators implemented, as a consequence of the implementation of project activities
were support of social spending through retroactive financing, as well as providing
schools with such paramount things as textbooks, computer equipment and school
furniture.

Thus, the activities of the project led to improved prospects for macroeconomic stability
and implementation by the Government its obligations and objectives for emergency
recovery program.

In accordance with the Financial Agreement, once in six months there was conducted an
external audit of the project. Meanwhile, we would like to note that the auditors’
conclusions on all audited periods are of unqualified opinion.


B. Ministry of Energy

1. Introduction

The Emergency Recovery Project is aimed at providing assistance to the Government of
the Kyrgyz Republic in implementation of the emergency program for social
reconciliation, recovery, and reconstruction. The Project objectives are: (a) to strengthen
the Government's macroeconomic stability and financial resilience to meet the priority
needs of its emergency program, and (b) to restore the reliability and security of
electricity and heating energy supply services (electric power/heat/gas), especially in Osh
and Jalalabat oblasts. The Project is aimed at solving these tasks through financing of: (i)
purchases of commodities and equipment for recovery, including materials for
rehabilitation and support of power supply services, (ii) additional fuel stockpiles and
emergency repair and rehabilitation works in power and gas supply systems, with special
focus made on damaged networks in the cities of Osh and Jalalabat in order to restore
power supply services, and (iii) purchases of equipment for main generating capacities
such as Toktogul and Kurpsai HPP and the Thermal Heating Power Plant in Bishkek, as
well as for two additional power distribution companies.

2. Project description

(a) Project objectives
The Project objectives are:

   •   to strengthen the prospects for macroeconomic stability and financial resilience of
       the Government to meet the priority needs of its emergency rehabilitation and
       recovery program; and




                                            36
   •   to restore the reliability and security of electricity and heating energy supply
       services (electric power/heat/gas), especially in Osh and Jalalabat regions.

(b) Initial conditions and activities under the Project
The Project consists of two components: (i) financing of purchases of key goods and
commodities to support high priority expenditures required for the emergency program
implementation, and (ii) investments for repair and rehabilitation of damaged
infrastructure/networks to restore and ensure energy supply services (power, heat and
gas), especially in the southern part of the country, as well as key purchases of fuel for
thermal power plants and district heating systems. Security measures under the Project
are mostly focused on this element in the rehabilitation of the power supply infrastructure.
Below is more detailed information about Component 2 (Energy Sector):

(A) Emergent restoration of power supply and gas supply in Osh and Jalalabat regions

   •   The OJSC "Oshelectro" is a power distribution company, which was established
       at the beginning of 2001. It provides services for Osh and Batken regions, and the
       city of Osh. The OJSC "Oshelectro" comprises 13 district-level power networks
       (RES) that operate power networks within their respective districts. The Company
       has more than 2 thousand of operating personnel. The OJSC "Oshelectro"
       provides power to 17,643 of non-household consumers, and 312,660 of household
       consumers. The OJSC "Oshelectro" is operating 13 thousand kilometers of
       overhead lines, 0.6 thousand kilometers of cable lines of 35-10-6-0.4 kv, and
       4,626 transformer substations.

   •   The OJSC "Jalalabatelectro" is a power distribution company, which was
       established at the beginning of 2001. The OJSC "Jalalabatelectro" provides
       services for Jalalabat region. The OJSC "Jalalabatelectro" provides electric power
       to 185,062 of household consumers and 9,906 of industrial, agricultural,
       commercial and other organizations in Jalalabat region. The OJSC
       "Jalalabatelectro" has 1,514 employees.
Under the Project, the distribution companies "Oshelectro" and "Jalalabatelectro" were
provided with equipment and materials required for rehabilitation of affected power
networks in Osh and Jalalabat regions. The equipment and materials include feeder
transformers, pole-arms, cables, wires, meters and other necessary materials, equipment
and spare parts. In order to support efforts aimed at repair/rehabilitation activities to
restore services for citizens, the following construction machinery and equipment were
also purchased: cranes, excavators, and bulldozers.

   •   OJSC “Kyrgyzgas” is a major production and maintenance entity. Its main and
       primary task is to ensure a smooth and trouble-free natural gas supply of the
       Kyrgyz Republic consumers. At the same time this joint stock company provides
       services for the transportation of Kazakh gas using the transmission pipeline
       located in the north of the Kyrgyz Republic. Natural gas in the Kyrgyz Republic
       amounts to 30 percent of the total consumption of energy resources. The natural
       gas consumers include more than 148 state-financed organizations, 2,334

                                            37
       industrial and commercial entities, and over 278,671 individual consumers
       residing in houses and apartments. As to supply consumers of the Kyrgyz
       Republic with natural gas, OJSC “Kyrgyzgas” operates gas pipelines and gas
       engineering facilities:
       o   753,8 km of trunk pipelines;
       o   656,9 km of medium pressure gas pipelines
       o   1679,46 km of low pressure pipelines
       o   116,0 gas distribution points (GDP)
       o   1061,0 cabinet gas distribution points.
OJSC “Kyrgyzgas” received under the Project the necessary pipes, meters and other
equipment, and special machinery that will allow completing the gas supply system
repair faster.
(B) Required repair/rehabilitation of equipment for electric power generation and
distribution networks

   •   Electric power generation. About 90 percent of the electricity produced in the
       Kyrgyz Republic is generated on hydroelectric power plants located in Jalalabat
       region. Heat power plants are located in the cities of Osh and Bishkek. The main
       and auxiliary equipment of power plants is morally and physically obsolete and
       requires replacement due to the prolonged operation.
It was planned to purchase oil fuel for the Osh Heat Power Plant under the Project, but
because of problems with the rail tracks running through the territory of Uzbekistan the
suppliers failed to guarantee the delivery of fuel oil to the city of Osh. It was decided to
cancel the purchase. The 125MVA power supply transformer was acquired for the
Bishkek CHPP. This measure helped to maintain efforts covered by the Emergency
Energy Assistance Project (EEAP) implemented in parallel as to assist the Government in
repairing of the main equipment for power generation, such as boilers. Such joint
activities allow increasing the production of thermal and electric energy.
Toktogul and Kurpsai hydroelectric power plants are the main power generating stations
in Kyrgyzstan and the key source of electricity generation. The total capacity of these
stations make up to 69 percent of the total installed capacity of all hydropower plants of
the Kyrgyz Republic. These facilities are in operation for 30 - 35 years and the switching
equipment (switches, transformer bushings) in switchboards required urgent replacement.
And that is exactly what has been completed within in the framework of this project.

   •   OJSC “Severelectro” was formed on July 1, 2001 and is in charge of purchase,
       distribution and sale of electricity, repairs and operational maintenance of electric
       distribution networks of 35-10-6-0.4 kv located within the boundaries of the Chui
       and Talas regions and Bishkek. OJSC “Severelectro” comprises of 17 regional
       electric networks (RES). Its service area totals 30 thousand m2, covers 8.3
       thousand of attended substations and transformer substation. Consumer base
       amounts to 492,000, while there are 20 thousand commercial consumers. The
       personnel capacity totals 3,127 people.

                                            38
   •   OJSC “Vostokelectro” was founded in early 2001 on the basis of the Issyk- Kul
       and Naryn distribution networks. OJSC “Vostokelectro” serves 14 districts and 33
       electrical network sectinos. OJSC “Vostokelectro” is in charge of supply and sales
       of electricity to 164,295 household consumers and 11,421 industrial, agricultural,
       commercial and other organizations of the Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Toguz-Torouz
       districts of Jalalabat region. Its personnel capacity totals 1,704 people.
The project envisaged provision of the most necessary equipment and materials, such as
distribution substations and special equipment for the repair of distribution networks for
Severelectro and Vostokelectro companies.

   •   Distribution of thermal energy. OJSC “Bishkekteploset” serves 413.617 km of
       heat networks and 19 pumping stations. Its personnel capacity totals 930 people.
       Heat consumers include residential, administrative, cultural and domestic
       buildings, manufacturing plants and other facilities. Number of connected
       consumers is more than 89,000.
OJSC “Bishkekteploset” was supply with the emergency repairs equipment, such as
pipes, hot water and heat point meters.

Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz State Enterprise provides services for heat supply, water supply
and sanitation. The total number of employees is 2852 people. Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz
State Enterprise is currently administers 190 boilers with a total installed capacity of 898
Gcal/h. It has 403 km of heat network, 487 km of water pipelines, 146 km of sewers and
44 artesian wells.

The project envisaged purchasing of 5,000 tons of fuel oil for Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz
State Enterprise along with special repair equipment.

3. Project Performance Indicators and Results Monitoring

(a) Emergency Energy Assistance Project Structure and Results Monitoring
(Component 2)




                                            39
Project goals       Project performance          Baseline            2010           2011           2012      2013
                    indicators                    (2009)
To assist the       PPI 2: Restore access
Kyrgyz              to electricity in the
Republic in:        cities of Osh and
                                                                    6,000         13,000               0        0
                    Jalalabat regions ,
(Component          which is measured by                   0
                                                                    Total          Total 5        Total      Total
2) Recovery         the number of
                                                                    6,000         19,000         19,000     19,000
and                 households with a
continuous          restored connection to
provision of        electricity
basic energy
services
(electricity /
heating / gas)      PPI 3: Maintaining
with an             access to heating
emphasis on         services in Osh city
Osh and             during the winter               100%             91%           127%           106%
Jalalabat           2010/2011 and
regions to          2011/2012 at the level     123,467.00      112,419.00     156,690.00     130,635.00
support the         equivalent to the               GCal             GCal           GCal           GCal       N/A
economic            corresponding periods       (January–       (January –     (January –     (January –
activity and        in 2009. It is measured     December        December       December       November
provide the         as a percentage of              2009)           2010)          2011)          2012)
public with         available thermal
adequate            energy (GCal)
heating during
the winter
period

                    Output performance           Baseline            2010           2011           2012      2013
Output
                    indicators                    (2009)
Component 2:
Repair and                                                              27          1170              38        0
restoration of      Number of recovered
                                                           0
gas network         gas connections                                  Total          Total          Total     Total
                                                                       27           1197           1235      1235

Component 2:                                   10.8 thous.     17.2 thous.    19.6 thous.    21.1 thous.
Supply of oil                                    ton of oil      ton of oil     ton of oil     ton of oil
fuel for the        Supply of oil fuel                fuel            fuel           fuel           fuel
                                                                                                              N/A
Osh Heat            (tons)                      (January–       (January–      (January–     (January –
Power Plant 6                                   December        December       December      November
(tons)                                              2009)           2010)          2011)          2012)

As indicated above, the oil fuel for the Osh Heat Power Plant was not purchased under
the Project. Nevertheless, the oil was purchased by a third-party financing and, in general,
the supply plan for a specified period of time has been executed. The PPI 2 goal to restore
access to electricity in the cities of Osh and Jalalabat regions was achieved in 2011. The


5
    All target households are connected.
6
    The oil fuel supply is financed from other sources.

                                                          40
PPI 3 goal to sustain access to heating services in Osh city during the winter 2010/2011
and 2011/2012 at the level equivalent to the corresponding periods in 2009 was achieved.
The target level for the restored gas connections was achieved in 2012.

Indirect Effect of the Project according to Energy Loss Data

       Losses in Electrical Energy in Distribution Networks for the Period 2010-13
                                                 (In percent)
                                                                  Total Losses for 12 Month
 #      Name
                                                           2010          2011          2012           2013
 1.     OJSC “Severelectro”                                25.0           23.5         22.0            18.4
 2.     OJSC “Vostokelectro”                               31.1           23.7         22.6            19.5
 3.     OJSC "Oshelectro"                                  26.3           19.9         19.5            16.8
 4.     OJSC “Jalalabatelectro”                            28.7           20.0         19.3            16.3
        Total                                              26.7           22.3         21.2            17.9

By the end of 2013 the above loss reduction were achieved through a variety of activities,
including the installation of new and replacement of old complete substations and power
transformers during 2011-2013 within the World Bank project.

      Unscheduled Outages in the Distribution System for 12 Month Period, 2011-13
                                                       2011                  2012                2013
 #      Name                                            12-month              12-month            12-month
                                                           period                period              period
 1.     OJSC “Severelectro”                                 4,945                 5,170               4,540
 2.     OJSC “Vostokelectro”                                2,895                 1,298               1,332
 3.     OJSC "Oshelectro"                                   3,172                 4,553               2,192
 4.     OJSC “Jalalabatelectro”                             2,450                 1,993               1,804
        Total                                             13,462                13,014                9,868
Note: 12 months of 2011 according to NESK data; 12 months 2012 and 2013 according to REK data.

Detailed information on the supplied equipment for energy companies (see Annex 9).




                                                      41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                   42
Annex 9. Detailed List of Equipment Purchased By Energy Sector Companies

(As reported by Ministry of Energy and Industry)

Ministry of Finance, pursuant to the Order #15-21/7 of the First Deputy Prime Minister
of the Kyrgyz Republic as of 18.02.2011 with regard to make a decision taking into
account the views of the Ministry of Energy, sent a letter to the Office of the Government
as to set 2.5 percent interest rate for energy companies and 1.5 percent for
Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz State Enterprise. Further, pursuant to the GoKR Decree #54-R as
of 04.03.11, the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic signed the Subsidiary
Agreement on 05.03.11 with:

1.      OJSC “Electricheskie stancii” - Subsidiarity Agreement worth
US$14,705,000. The electric batteries were purchased for OJSC “Electricheskie stancii”
(Electric Power Plants) with subsequent installation on the Bishkek Thermal Power Plant
and the Toktogul HPP cascade. A 125 MVA/110 kV transformer was supplied and
installed at the Bishkek Thermal Power Plant. 110, 220, and 500 kV bushings were
supplied to the Toktogul HPP cascade, companies administering HPPs that are currently
under construction, Bishkek TPP and Osh TPP. 2 units of mobile high voltage
laboratories are currently in operation on the PS HPP. 110, 220, and 500 kV gas-insulated
switches were supplied for the Toktogul HPP and Kurpsai HPP.

OJSC “Electricheskie stancii
    Switches                                                             Q-ty       Unit
  1 Switches 110kV                                                         10        pcs
  2 Switches 220kV                                                          6        pcs
  3 Switches 500kV                                                          4        pcs
    Bushings
  4 High-voltage bushings 110 kV                                           32        pcs
  5 High-voltage bushings 220 kV                                           39        pcs
  6 Transformer bushings 500 kV                                            12        pcs
    Transformer
  7 Transformer 110 kV 125 МВА                                              1        pcs
    Electric battery
  8 Electric battery                                                        7         set
    Specialized machinery
  9 Special purpose vehicle with electric laboratory 35 kV                  2       units




                                             43
     Contract/Lot No.                                                                       Amount
#    and Date               Contract And Party Name                                             US$
1    KG PCO 032/1,          Supply of gas-insulated switches with external current        279,622.34
     22.11.2012             transformers 110 kV - OJSC “BO Electroapparat”
2    KG PCO 032/3,          Supply of gas-insulated switches 500 kV - LLP “ABB”           892,750.00
     03.12.2012
3    KG PCO 033,            Supply of power transformer 125МВА/110kV - LLC               1,234,180.00
     23.07.2012             “Uralskiy energeticheskiy soyuz”
4    KG PCO 038,            Supply of electric batteries - LLC “Rosmet”                   802,488.29
     16.04.2012
5    KG PCO 039-2,          Supply of transformer bushings 110, 220 kV, 500 kV           2,342,295.76
     05.06.2013             with solid insulation (RIP) - LLC “Uralskiy
                            energeticheskiy soyuz”
6    KG-PCO-40 as of        Supply of mobile high-voltage laboratory, - LLC               322,220.00
     25.03.2013             “ABT”
7    KG-PCO-52 as of        Supply of gas-insulated switches 110 kV with external         235,000.00
     28.10.2013             current transformers and frame - CJSC “UES Export”
8    KG-PCO-53 as of        Supply of gas-insulated switches 220 kV with external         332,220.00
     11.11.2013             current transformers and frame - LLC “Profit-Express”
Total                                                                                    6,440,776.39

8 contracts were executed for OJSC “Electricheskie stancii” (Electric Power Plants)
totaling US$6,440,413.39.

2.     OJSC “Severelectro” – a subsidiarity agreement worth US$385,106.
Complete transformer substations and power transformers were purchased for OJSC
“Severelectro”. Also truck cranes were supplied along with the 40 tones motor truck,
motor car laboratory, hydraulic hammer excavator and articulated vehicle (long vehicle).

OJSC "Severelectro"
      Transformers and cabinets                                                  Q-ty          Unit
1     Transformer 160 kVА                                                         55            pcs
2     Transformer 250 kVА                                                        115            pcs
3     Transformer 400 kVА                                                         95            pcs
4     Transformer 630 kVА                                                         35            pcs
5     Cabinet 160 kVА                                                             30            pcs
6     Cabinet 250 kVА                                                             40            pcs
7     Cabinet 400 kVА                                                             35            pcs
      Pole-arms, stubs, cross-arms and insulators
8     Insulators 10 kV                                                         10000            pcs
      Special purpose machinery
9     Crane truck with 16 ton capacity                                               2         units
10    Special purpose vehicle with electric laboratory 35 kV                         1         units
11    Backhoe loader                                                                 1         units
12    Hydraulic hammer excavator (0.18 m3 basket)                                    1         units
13    Crane truck with 40 ton capacity                                               1         units
14    Articulated vehicle (long vehicle)                                             1         units



                                               44
 #   Contract/Lot No.        Contract And Party Name                              Amount
     and Date                                                                         US$
1    KG-PCO-01/1 as of       Supply of complete transformer substations and     863,730.00
     05.10.2011              power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy
                             transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
2    KG PCO 031/1-1,         Supply of 16 ton crane trucks - LLC                210,255.32
     25.11.2011              “Asiaautocenter”
3    KG-PCO-41/3, lot        Supply of complete transformer substations and     587,425.00
     3,6, as of 22.10.2012   power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy
                             transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
4    KG-PCO-41/3-3 , lot     Supply of complete transformer substations and     530,040.00
     1,2,4,5 as of           power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy
     09.01.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
5    KG-PCO-49/1 as of       Supply of special purpose vehicle with electric    144,500.00
     29.08.2013              laboratory 35 kV - LLC “Molniya”
6    KG-PCO-049/2-1 as       Hydraulic hammer excavator (0.18 m3 basket) - 2     62,000.00
     of 23.08.2013           units - CJSC “Envod”
7    KG-PCO-49/3 as of       Supply of 40 ton crane truck - LLC “Apex com”      257,000.00
     21.08.2013
8    KG-PCO-049/4-2 as       Articulated vehicle (long vehicle) - 1 unit -       96,000.00
     of 21.08.2013           Consortium Alliance Machinery Group
9    KG-PCO-54/4 as of       Supply of power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy    105,000.00
     10.10.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
10   KG-PCO-56/4 as of       Supply of insulators - CJSC “Alamudunenergo”        55,106.38
     23.11.2013
11   KG-PCO-57/4 as of       Supply of power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy     97,125.00
     23.11.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
12   KG-PCO-58/4 as of       Supply of power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy    112,560.00
     23.11.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer
                             Plant)
13   KG-PCO-59/2 as of       Supply of computers and computer equipment -        11,494.15
     29.11.2013              LLC “Antarex LTD”
14 KG-PCO-59/4 as of         Supply of computers and computer equipment -         2,027.85
     29.11.2013              LLC “Brand”
15 KG-PCO-59/6 as of         Supply of computers and computer equipment -        22,671.36
     29.11.2013              LLC “Ultra-Technics”
Total                                                                          3,156,935.06

15 contracts were executed for OJSC “Severelectro” totaling US$3,156,935.06.

3.      OJSC “Oshelectro” - to the amount of US$5,240,505. The package transformer
substations and power transformers, pole-arms, cross-arms, wires, cables, meters, truck
cranes, personnel transportation vehicles, backhoe loader, anchor trucks, insulators, fuses
were purchased for OJSC “Oshelectro”. The detailed information about the purchased
equipment is provided below.


                                              45
OJSC "Oshelectro"
     Transformers and cabinets                       Q-ty   Unit
1    Transformer 160 kVА                              80     pcs
2    Transformer 250 kVА                             145     pcs
3    Transformer 400 kVА                             150     pcs
4    Transformer 630 kVА                              45     pcs
5    Cabinet 160 kVА                                  35     pcs
6    Cabinet 250 kVА                                  50     pcs
7    Cabinet 400 kVА                                  55     pcs
8    Transformer 10000 kVА                              1    pcs
     Pole-arms, stubs, cross-arms and insulators
9    Pole-arms steel concrete Type 1 (СВ 110)        2250   pcs
10   Pole-arms Type 2 (СК22)                          155   pcs
11   Pole, metal/angle                                 43   pcs
12   Stubs                                            172   pcs
13   Pole, treated wood                               300   pcs
14   Cross-arms 0.4 kV                                650   pcs
15   Cross-arms 6 kV                                  350   pcs
16   Cross-arms 10 kV                                 750   pcs
17   Insulators 0.4 kV                               7000   pcs
18   Insulators 10 kV                               17000   pcs
19   Insulators 35 kV                                7000   pcs
     Wires, cables and box joint
20   Wire АС-50                                     30000    kg
21   Wire АС-70                                     11250    kg
22   Wire АС-95                                     32500    kg
23   Non-insulated wire 50 mm2                      40000    kg
24   Insulated wire 10 mm2                          12500    m
25   Insulated wire 35 mm2                           1050    m
26   Insulated wire 50 mm2                           1500    m
27   Insulated wire 4х16 mm2                           60    m
28   Protective insulated wire 1х50 mm2 - 10 kV      2500    m
29   Protective insulated wire 1х50 mm2 - 1 kV       4000    m
30   Tee clamps                                       400    m
31   Twin wire 2х6 mm2                             300000    m
32   Aluminum cable with lead coating 3х120 mm2       700    m
33   Aluminum cable with lead coating 3х150 mm2      1700    m
34   Four-core cable 3х16 mm2 + 1х10 mm2             6250    m
35   Four-core cable 3х25 mm2 + 1х10 mm2             2100    m
36   Four-core cable 3х35 mm2 + 1х16 mm2              420    m
37   Four-core cable 3х50 mm2 + 1х25 mm2             1400    m
38   Four-core cable 3х95 mm2 + 1х50 mm2             1050    m
39   Four-core cable 3х120 mm2 + 1х70 mm2            2050    m
40   Four-core cable 3х150 mm2 + 1х95 mm2            1050    m
41   Box joint 3х120/150 mm2                          110   pcs
42   Terminal box 3х120 mm2 -- 3х150 mm2               92   pcs
     Rolled metal                                    Q-ty   Unit
43   Rolled metal 4 mm                             195000     m
44   Rolled metal 8 mm                              17500     m

                                           46
45   Rolled metal 14 mm                                              8400     m
     Fuses, chopper switches, closing switches, disconnect switch
46   Fuses 10 kV                                                      350   pcs
47   Hopper switches 0.4 kV 250 А                                     420   pcs
48   Сhopper switches 0.4 kV 400 А                                    420   pcs
49   Motored load break switch 35 kV                                    4   set
50   Motored disconnect switch 35 kV                                    9   set
51   Load break switch 10 kV                                           20   set
52   indoor installation breaker switch 10 kV                          20   set
53   Outdoor installation breaker switch 10 kV                         50   set
54   Single pole switch 40 А                                        28000   pcs
55   Single pole switch 50 А                                         2450   pcs
56   Triple pole switch 100 А                                         140   pcs
57   Switching device cabinet 10 kV                                    10   set
     Special purpose machinery
58   Crane truck with 16 ton capacity                                  2    Unit
59   Wheelbase anchor truck                                            1    Unit
60   Truck-mounted crane                                               1    Unit
61   Lift truck                                                        1    Unit
62   Special purpose vehicle with electric laboratory 35 kV            2    Unit
63   Backhoe loader                                                    3    Unit
64   Personnel and equipment transportation vehicle                   19    Unit
65   Personnel transportation vehicle                                  8    Unit
66   Light duty vehicle 4х4                                            1    Unit
67   Portable compressed air pump, 10 bar                              1    Unit
68   Truck with 15.5 ton manipulator arm                               1    Unit
     Meters
69   Single-phase meter 50 А with installation box                  19300   pcs
70   Installation box for single-phase meter                        12700   pcs
71   Three-phase meter                                                600   pcs
     Computer equipment
72   Desktop computer                                                  9     set
73   Notebook with carrying case                                       7     set
74   MFD                                                               6     set
75   Printer                                                           1     set
76   Telephone set                                                     1     set
77   Digital camera                                                    3     set
78   USB flash drive                                                   5     set
79   Copier А3                                                         1     set
80   Projector                                                         1     set
81   Fax machine                                                       1     set
82   Portable radio set                                                1     set




                                              47
     Contract/Lot No. and                                                               Amount
#    Date                   Contract and Party Name                                         US$
 1   KG-PCO-01/4 as of      Supply of complete transformer substations and          1,161,445.00
     05.10.2011             power transformers - OJSC “Kentauskiy
                            transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
2    KG PCO 002 as of       Supply of cross-arms - OJSC “Nasosniy zavod-5”            29,976.79
     27.10.2011             (Pump Plant #5)
3    KG PCO 002 LOT1А       Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”              83,195.74
     as of 03.05.2011       (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
4    KG PCO 002 LOT1В;      Supply of cross-arms 10 kV, LLC “AsiaTransCable”          48,404.26
     29.04.2011
5    KG PCO 002 LOT2А;      Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”              83,195.74
     03.05.2011             (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
6    KG PCO 002 LOT3А;      Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”              83,195.74
     03.05.2011             (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
7    KG PCO 002 LOT3В;      Supply of cross-arms 0.4 kV, LLC “Energetic TBB”          19,361.70
     29.04.2011
8    KG PCO 003/1;          Supply of poles, LLC “AsiaTransCable”                    398,910.64
     14.12.2011
9    KG PCO 004 LOT 1;      Supply of metal (detached, angle, anchor) for single     233,837.23
     14.05.2011             chain HV line-35 kV, LLC “ChuiElectroStroy”
10   KG PCO 004 LOT 2-      Supply of reinforced concrete for metal pole-arms,       142,487.12
     1; 12.03.2012          OJSC “Temir-Tash”
11   KG PCO 005 LOT 1;      Supply of wires АС-95, АС-70, АС-50, LLC “Cable”         122,872.34
     29.04.2011
12   KG PCO 005 LOT 2;      Supply of wires АС-95, АС-70, АС-50, LLC “Cable”           6,989.36
     29.04.2011
13   KG PCO 005 LOT 3;      Supply of wires, LLC “Uralmetprom”                        37,190.74
     10.11.2011
14   KG PCO 006 LOT1;       Supply of cables, LLC “Cable”                            111,602.13
     29.07.2011
15   KG PCO 006/2-1;        Supply of cables, LLC “Uralmetprom”                       24,935.89
     25.02.2012
16   KG PCO 006 LOT 3       Supply of cables, CJSC “ROSMUFTA”                         17,440.00
     ОE; 08.08.2011
17   KG PCO 007/1;          Supply of crane truck, CJSC “BG-Auto”                    247,916.00
     01.07.2011
18   KG PCO 008/1-1;        Supply of drilling and crane truck, LLC                   82,978.72
                            “Technoexport”
19   KG PCO 008/1-2;        Supply of crane truck, LLC “Technoexport”                 73,404.26
     23.04.2012
20   KG PCO 008/2-1;        Supply of truck-mounted crane, LLC “Olivia                50,850.00
     31.08.2012             Service”
21   KG PCO 009/1;          Supply of special purpose vehicle with electric          259,500.00
     28.10.2011             laboratory as to test cable line faults and equipment
                            up to 35 kV, LLC “Molniya”
22   KG PCO 010/1;          Supply of backhoe loader, LLC “ABT”                       85,400.00
     23.08.2011
23   KG PCO 011-1-ОE;       Supply of single-phase meters, OJSC “Meridian”            90,650.00
     15.07.2011


                                              48
24   KG PCO 012 OJE/1,      Supply of personnel and equipment transportation     224,856.35
     3, 4; 09.08.2011       vehicles, LLC “ABM-Auto”
25   KG PCO 013/1 O;        Supply of power transformer 35/10 kV 10000kVА,       171,131.50
     25.07.2012             OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau
                            Transformer Plant)
26   KG PCO 014/1;          Supply of metal wires of various sections, LLC        26,390.77
     14.12.2011             “AsiaTransCable”
27   KG PCO 015/1-1;        Supply of insulators for powerlines; OJSC “UAIZ”     113,265.96
     22.10.2012
28   KG PCO 015/2-1;        Supply of insulators for powerlines (lot 2); LLC      61,957.45
     31.03.2012             “Dafina”
29   KG PCO 016/1-4;        Supply of switching equipment; CJSC                  416,910.64
     30.06.2012             “Soyuzelectroavtomatika”
30   KG PCO 016/2-1/;       Supply of switching equipment; LLC “Profit            19,585.11
     30.09.2013             Express”
31   KG PCO 016/3-1;        Supply of switching equipment; LLC “Dafina”           42,019.36
     31.03.2012
32   KG PCO 017/1;          Supply of computers and computer equipment, LLC       25,650.68
     31.10.2011             “Ultra-Technics”
33   KG PCO 024/2;          Supply of portable compressors, LLC “ABC - metal”     28,699.40
     01.10.2012
34   KG PCO 025/2;          Supply of portable radio set, LLC “Akaziya            44,726.36
     03.11.2011             Electronics”
35   KG PCO 029;            Supply of wires, LLC “Chuielectrostroy”               99,751.49
     14.11.2011
36   KG PCO 030; OJE/O ,    Supply of wires, LLC “Danko Service”                  72,872.34
     04.11.2011
37   KG PCO 031/2-1,        Supply of specialized machinery, LLC “ABM-Auto”      233,042.55
     25.11.2011
38   KG PCO 035/1,          Supply of single-phase meters, meter installation    328,162.80
     06.12.2011             boxes and triple-phase meters; LLC “Algol”
39   KG PCO 035-2/1,        Supply of twin core PU cable 0.4 kV2*6mm2 and        122,772.00
     07.12.2011             metal wires of 4mm for grounding; LLC “RIAL
                            Service”
40   KG-PCO-41/1, lot 3,6   Supply of complete transformer substations and       427,525.00
     as of 22.10.2012       power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
                            transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
41   KG-PCO-41/1-1, lot     Supply of complete transformer substations and       576,483.00
     1,2,4,5 as of          power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
     09.01.2013             transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
42   KG-PCO-42/2 as of      Supply of concrete poles, LLC “Apex com”             178,710.70
     05.02.2013
43   KG-PCO-43/2- as of     Supply of wooden poles, LLC “ABC-metal”               51,462.77
     31.08.2013
44   KG-PCO-044/2 as of     Supply of cross-arms, LLC “Chuielectrostroy”          25,419.57
     15.02.2013
45   KG-PCO-045/2 as of     Supply of non-insulated wires, LLC “AK-AU            225,280.00
     25.10.2013             Electric DIS TIC. KOLL. STI.”
46   KG-PCO-46/2 as of      Supply of: 1) PVC cable with wire cross-section of    28,191.49
     29.03.2013             3*120 + 1*70 mm²; 2) High voltage cable with lead
                            coating and cross-section of 3*150 mm2, LLC
                            “Daraut Service”

                                             49
 47   KG-PCO-48/2 as of      Supply of manual three-pole line two-column                     14,265.96
      29.03.2013             disconnector of external installation box 10 kV, LLC
                             “Profit Express”
 48  KG-PCO-049/2-2 as       Wheel-based backhoe loader - 1 0.4, CJSC “Envod”                30,000.00
     of 30.08.2013
49 KG-PCO-049/4-1-3 as       Truck-mounted crane with manipulator arm: 15.5 ton              69,975.00
     of 27.08.2013           - 1 0.4, Consortium Alliance Machinery Group
50 KG-PCO-54/2 as of         Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy                 145,000.00
     10.10.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
51 KG-PCO-55 as of           Supply of concrete poles, LLC “Hydrobetonstroy”                150,702.08
     23.11.2013
52 KG-PCO-56/1 as of         Supply of insulators, CJSC “Alamudunenergo”                     55,106.38
     23.11.2013
53 KG-PCO-57/2 as of         Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy                 135,975.00
     23.11.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
54 KG-PCO-58/2 as of         Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy                 112,560.00
     23.11.2013              transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
Total                                                                                      7,754,191.13

54 contracts were executed for OJSC "Oshelectro" totaling US$7,754,191.13.

4.      OJSC “Jalalabatelectro” – to the amount of US$3,772.416. The package
transformer substations and power transformers, pole-arms, cross-arms, wires, cables,
meters, crane trucks, personnel transportation vehicles, backhoe loader, anchor trucks,
insulators and fuses were purchased for OJSC “Jalalabatelectro”.

OJSC "Jalalabatelectro"
       Transformers and cabinets                                                    Q-ty          Unit
  1    Transformer 160 kVА                                                           55            pcs
  2    Transformer 250 kVА                                                          135            pcs
  3    Transformer 400 kVА                                                          100            pcs
  4    Transformer 630 kVА                                                           25            pcs
  5    Cabinet 160 kVА                                                               35            pcs
  6    Cabinet 250 kVА                                                               40            pcs
  7    Cabinet 400 kVА                                                               35            pcs
  8    Transformer 10000 kVА                                                           1           pcs
       Pole-arms, stubs, cross-arms and insulators
  9    Pole-arms steel concrete Type 1 (СВ 110)                                 1450               pcs
 10    Pole-arms Type 2 (СК22)                                                   155               pcs
 11    Pole, metal/angle                                                          43               pcs
 12    Stubs                                                                     172               pcs
 13    Pole, treated wood                                                        300               pcs
 14    Cross-arms 0.4 kV                                                         450               pcs
 15    Cross-arms 6 kV                                                           150               pcs
 16    Cross-arms 10 kV                                                          550               pcs
 17    Insulators 0.4 kV                                                        3000               pcs
 18    Insulators 10 kV                                                        13000               pcs
 19    Insulators 35 kV                                                         3000               pcs
       Wires, cables and box joints

                                              50
20   Wire АС-50                                                        30000     kg
21   Wire АС-70                                                        11250     kg
22   Wire АС-95                                                        32500     kg
23   Non-insulated wire 50 mm2                                         40000     kg
24   Insulated wire 10 mm2                                             12500     m
25   Insulated wire 35 mm2                                              1050     m
26   Insulated wire 50 mm2                                              1500     m
27   Insulated wire 4х16 mm2                                              60     m
28   Twin wire 2х6 mm2                                                175000     m
29   Aluminum cable with lead coating 3х120 mm2                          300     m
30   Aluminum cable with lead coating 3х150 mm2                         1300     m
31   Four-core cable 3х16 mm2 + 1х10 mm2                                2000     m
32   Four-core cable 3х25 mm2 + 1х10 mm2                                 900     m
33   Four-core cable 3х35 mm2 + 1х16 mm2                                 180     m
34   Four-core cable 3х50 mm2 + 1х25 mm2                                 600     m
35   Four-core cable 3х95 mm2 + 1х50 mm2                                 450     m
36   Four-core cable 3х120 mm2 + 1х70 mm2                               1450     m
37   Four-core cable 3х150 mm2 + 1х95 mm2                                450     m
38   Box joint 3х120/150 mm2                                              30    pcs
39   Terminal box 3х120 mm2 -- 3х150 mm2                                  22    pcs
     Rolled metal
40   Rolled metal 4 mm                                                130000     m
41   Rolled metal 8 mm                                                  7500     m
42   Rolled metal 14 mm                                                 3600     m
     Fuses, chopper switches, closing switches, disconnect switches
43   Fuses 10 kV                                                         150    pcs
44   Сhopper switch 0.4 kV 250 А                                         180    pcs
45   Сhopper switch 0.4 kV 400 А                                         180    pcs
46   Load break switch 10 kV                                              10    set
47   Indoor installation breaker switch 10 kV                             10    set
48   Outdoor installation breaker switch 10 kV                            55    set
49   Single pole switch 40 А                                           12000    pcs
50   Single pole switch 50 А                                            1050    pcs
51   Triple pole switch 100 А                                             60    pcs
     Special purpose machinery
52   Crane truck of 16 ton capacity                                       2    units
53   Anchor truck                                                         1    units
54   Truck-mounted crane                                                  1    units
55   Lift truck                                                           1    units
56   Special purpose vehicle with electric laboratory 35 kV               1    units
57   Backhoe loader                                                       2    units
58   Personnel and equipment transportation vehicle                      17    units
59   Light duty vehicle 4х4                                               1    units
60   Truck with 15.5 ton manipulator arm                                  1    units
     Meters
61   Single-phase meter 50А with installation box                      11700    pcs
62   Installation box for single-phase meter                            7300    pcs
63   Three-phase meter                                                   400    pcs
     Computer equipment

                                              51
64    Desktop computer                                                            9          set
65    Notebook with carrying case                                                 6          set
66    MFD                                                                         6          set
67    Printer                                                                     1          set
68    Telephone set                                                               2          set
69    Digital camera                                                              2          set
70    USB flash drive                                                             5          set
71    Portable radio set                                                          1          set

     Contract/Lot # and                                                               Amount n
#    Date                  Contract and Party Name                                        US$
                           Supply of complete transformer substations and power
     KG-PCO-01/3 as of
1                          transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy            852,525.00
     05.10.2011
                           zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG PCO 002 as of      Supply of cross-arms, OJSC “Nasosniy zavod-5”
2                                                                                      12,847.19
     27.10.2011            (Pump Plant #5)
     KG PCO 002 LOT1А      Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”
3                                                                                      35,655.32
     as of 03.05.2011      (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
     KG PCO 002
4                          Supply of cross-arms 10 kV, LLC “AsiaTransCable”            20,744.68
     LOT1В; 29.04.2011
     KG PCO 002            Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”
5                                                                                      35,655.32
     LOT2А; 03.05.2011     (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
     KG PCO 002            Supply of concrete poles, OJSC “Zavod JBI-4”
6                                                                                      35,655.32
     LOT3А; 03.05.2011     (Concrete Goods Plant #4)
     KG PCO 002
7                          Supply of cross-arms 0.4 kV, LLC “Energetic TBB”             8,297.87
     LOT3В; 29.04.2011
     KG PCO 003/2;
8                          Supply of poles, LLC “AsiaTransCable”
     14.12.2011                                                                       398,910.64
     KG PCO 004 LOT 1;     Supply of metal (detached, angle, anchor) for single
9                                                                                     233,837.23
     14.05.2011            chain HV line-35 kV, LLC “ChuiElectroStroy”
     KG PCO 004 LOT 2-     Supply of reinforced concrete for metal pole-arms,
10                                                                                    142,487.12
     2; 12.03.2012         OJSC “Temir-Tash”
     KG PCO 005 LOT 1;
11                         Supply of wires АС-95, АС-70, АС-50, LLC “Cable”           122,872.34
     29.04.2011
     KG PCO 005 LOT 2;
12                         Supply of wires АС-95, АС-70, АС-50, LLC “Cable”             6,989.36
     29.04.2011
     KG PCO 006 LOT1;
13                         Supply of cables, LLC “Cable”                               46,674.47
     29.07.2011
     KG PCO 006/2-2;
14                         Supply of cables, LLC “Uralmetprom”                         10,686.81
     25.02.2012
     KG PCO 006 LOT 3
15                         Supply of cables, CJSC “ROSMUFTA”                            4,540.00
     JE; 08.08.2011
     KG PCO 007/2;
16                         Supply of crane truck, CJSC “BG-Auto”                      247,916.00
     04.07.2011
     KG PCO 008/1-3;       Supply of drilling and crane vehicle, LLC
17                                                                                     82,978.72
     23.04.2012            “Technoexport”
     KG PCO 008/1-4;
18                         Supply of crane truck, LLC “Technoexport”                   73,404.26
     23.04.2012
     KG PCO 008/2-2;       Supply of truck-mounted crane, LLC “Olivia
19                                                                                     50,850.00
     31.08.2012            Service”



                                             52
                            Supply of special purpose vehicle with electric
     KG PCO 009/2;
20                          laboratory as to test cable line faults and equipment up   128,500.00
     28.10.2011
                            to 35 kV, LLC “Molniya”
     KG PCO 010/2;
21                          Supply of backhoe loader LLC “ABT”                          85,400.00
     23.08.2011
     KG PCO 011-1-JE;
22                          Supply of single-phase meters, OJSC “Meridian”              38,850.00
     15.07.2011
     KG PCO 012 OJE/1,      Supply of personnel and equipment transportation
23                                                                                      51,778.50
     4; 09.08.2011          vehicles, LLC “ABM-Auto”
                            Supply of power transformer 35/10 kV 10000kVА,
     KG PCO 013/1 J;
24                          OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy zavod”                   171,131.50
     25.07.2012
                            (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG PCO 014/2;          Supply of metal wires of various sections, LLC
25                                                                                      11,310.33
     14.12.2011             “AsiaTransCable”
     KG PCO 015/1-2;
26                          Supply of insulators for powerlines; OJSC “UAIZ”            48,542.55
     22.10.2012
     KG PCO 015/2-2;        Supply of insulators for powerlines (lot 2); LLC
27                                                                                      26,553.19
     31.03.2012             “Dafina”
     KG PCO 016/2-2/;       Supply of switching equipment; LLC “Profit
28                                                                                      12,170.21
     30.09.2013             Express”
     KG PCO 016/3-2;
29                          Supply of switching equipment; LLC “Dafina”                 18,008.30
     31.03.2012
     KG PCO 017/2;          Supply of computers and computer equipment, LLC
30                                                                                      14,634.87
     31.10.2011             “Ultra-Technics”
     KG PCO 025/3;          Supply of portable radio set , LLC “Akaziya
31                                                                                      11,65583
     03.11.2011             Electronics”
     KG PCO 029;
32                          Supply of wires, LLC “Chuielectrostroy”                     99,751.49
     14.11.2011
     KG PCO 030; OJE/J ,
33                          Supply of wires, LLC “Danko Service”                        72,872.34
     04.11.2011
     KG PCO 031/2-2,
34                          Supply of specialized machinery, LLC “ABM-Auto”            233,042.55
     25.11.2011
     KG PCO 035/2,          Supply of single-phase meters, meter installation
35                                                                                     218,775.20
     06.12.2011             boxes and triple-phase meters; LLC “Algol”
                            Supply of twin core PU cable of 0.4 kV2*6mm2 and
     KG PCO 035-2/1,
36                          metal wires of 4mm for grounding; LLC “RIAL                 81,848.00
     07.12.2011
                            Service”
                            Supply of complete transformer substations and power
     KG-PCO-41/2, lot
37                          transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy            256,090.00
     3,6 as of 22.10.2012
                            zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG-PCO-41/2-2 , lot    Supply of complete transformer substations and power
38   1,2,4,5 as of          transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy            446,920.00
     09.01.2013             zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG-PCO-42/1 as of
39                          Supply of concrete poles, LLC “Apex com”                   178,710.70
     30.01.2013
     KG-PCO-044/1 as of
40                          Supply of cross-arms, LLC “Chuielectrostroy”                25,419.57
     01.02.2013
     KG-PCO-045/1 as of     Supply of non-insulated wires, LLC “AK-AU
41                                                                                     225,280.00
     25.10.2013             Electric DIS TIC. KOLL. STI.”




                                               53
                             Supply 1) PVC cable with wire cross-section of 3*120
      KG-PCO-46/1 as of      + 1*70 mm²; 2) High voltage cable with lead coating
 42                                                                                        28,191.49
      31.03.2013             and cross-section of 3*150 mm2, LLC “Daraut
                             Service”
                             Supply of manual three-pole line two-column
      KG-PCO-48/1 as of
 43                          disconnector of external installation box 10 kV, LLC          14,265.96
      31.03.2013
                             “Profit Express”
      KG-PCO-049/4-1-2       Truck-mounted crane with manipulator arm: 15.5 ton -
 44                                                                                        69,975.00
      as of 27.08.2013       1 0.4, Consortium Alliance Machinery Group
                             Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
      KG-PCO-54/1 as of
 45                          transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer                  145,000.00
      10.10.2013
                             Plant)
      KG-PCO-55/2 as of
 46                          Supply of concrete poles, LLC “Hydrobetonstroy”              100,468.05
      23.11.2013
      KG-PCO-56/2 as of
 47                          Supply of insulators, CJSC “Alamudunenergo”                   55,106.38
      23.11.2013
                             Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
      KG-PCO-57/1 as of
 48                          transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer                  135,975.00
      23.11.2013
                             Plant)
                             Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
      KG-PCO-58/1 as of
 49                          transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer                  112,560.00
      23.11.2013
                             Plant)
Total                                                                                5,542,314.68

49 contracts were executed for OJSC “Jalalabatelectro” totaling US$5,542,314.68.

5.      OJSC “Vostokelectro” – to the amount of US$303,191. The package
transformer substations and power transformers, crane trucks, pole-arms, cross-arms,
wires, cables were purchased for OJSC “Vostokelectro”.

OJSC "Vostokelectro"
        Transformers and cabinets                                            Q-ty               Unit
  1     Transformer 160 kVА                                                          60          pcs
  2     Transformer 250 kVА                                                         125          pcs
  3     Transformer 400 kVА                                                         130          pcs
  4     Transformer 630 kVА                                                          65          pcs
  5     Cabinet 160 kVА                                                              30          pcs
  6     Cabinet 250 kVvА                                                             40          pcs
  7     Cabinet 400 kVА                                                              45          pcs
        Pole-arms, stubs, cross-arms and insulators
  8     Pole-arms steel concrete Type 1 (СВ 110)                                  300           pcs
  9     Pole, treated wood                                                        300           pcs
 10     Cross-arms 0.4 kV                                                         300           pcs
 11     Cross-arms 10 kV                                                          400           pcs
 12     Insulators 10 kV                                                        10000           pcs
        Wires, cables and box joint
 13     Wire АС-50                                                              20000            kg
 14     Non-insulated wire 50 mm2                                               40000            kg
 15     Aluminum cable with lead coating 3х150 mm2                               1000            m


                                              54
 16    Four-core cable 3х120 mm2 + 1х70 mm2                                      1000               m
       Fuses, chopper switches, closing switches, disconnect switch
 17    Outdoor installation breaker switch 10 kV                                    45          set
       Special purpose machinery
 18    Crane truck with 16 ton capacity                                              2       unit
 19    Truck with 15.5 ton manipulator arm                                           1       unit


      Contract/Lot #                                                                       Amount
#     And Date            Contract And Party Name                                            US$
                          Supply of complete transformer substations and power
      KG-PCO-01/2 as
 1                        transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy                801,040.00
      of 05.10.2011
                          zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
      KG PCO 031/1-2,
 2                        Supply of 16 ton crane trucks, LLC “Asiaautocenter”            210,255.32
      25.11.2011
      KG-PCO-41/4, lot    Supply of complete transformer substations and power
 3    3,6 as of           transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy                247,650.00
      22.10.2012          zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
      KG-PCO-41/4-4 ,     Supply of complete transformer substations and power
 4    lot 1,2,4,5 as of   transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy transformatorniy                372,650.00
      09.01.2013          zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
      KG-PCO-42/3 as
 5                        Supply of concrete poles, LLC “Apex com”                        89,355.33
      of 30.01.2013
      KG-PCO-43/3- as
 6                        Supply of wooden poles, LLC “ABC-metal”                         51,462.77
      of 31.08.2013
      KG-PCO-44/3 as
 7                        Supply of cross-arms, LLC “Chuielectrostroy”                    25,419.57
      of 15.02.2013
      KG-PCO-045/3 as     Supply of non-insulated wires, LLC “AK-AU Electric
 8                                                                                       225,280.00
      of 25.10.2013       DIS TIC. KOLL. STI.”
                          Supply 1) PVC cable with wire cross-section of 3*120 +
      KG-PCO-46/3 as
 9                        1*70 mm²; 2) High voltage cable with lead coating and           28,191.49
      of 31.03.2013
                          cross-section of 3*150 mm2, LLC “Daraut Service”
                          Supply of manual three-pole line two-column
      KG-PCO-48/3 as
 10                       disconnector of external installation box 10 kV, LLC            14,265.96
      of 31.03.2013
                          “Profit Express”
     KG-PCO-049/4-1-      Truck-mounted crane with manipulator arm: 15.5 ton - 1,
 11                                                                                       69,975.00
     1 as of 24.09.2013   Consortium Alliance Machinery Group
     KG-PCO-54/3 as       Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
12                                                                                       105,000.00
     of 10.10.2013        transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG-PCO-56/3 as
13                        Supply of insulators, CJSC “Alamudunenergo”                     55,106.38
     of 23.11.2013
     KG-PCO-57/3 as       Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
14                                                                                        97,125.00
     of 23.11.2013        transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
     KG-PCO-58/3 as       Supply of power transformers, OJSC “Kentauskiy
15                                                                                       112,560.00
     of 23.11.2013        transformatorniy zavod” (Kentau Transformer Plant)
Total                                                                               2,505,336.82

15 contracts were executed for OJSC “Vostokelektro” totaling US$2,505,336.82.



                                              55
6.     OJSC “Bishkekteploset” – to the amount of US$2,800,000. The pre-insulated
pipes, heat points, meters, crane trucks and excavators were purchased for OJSC
“Bishkekteploset”.

OJSC "Bishkekteploset"
        Special purpose machinery                                                      Q-ty         Unit
    1   Backhoe loader                                                                    1         unit
    2   Truck with 4.5 ton manipulator arm                                                2         unit
    3   Truck with 15.5 ton manipulator arm                                               2         unit
        Pipes for heat supply system
    4   PU coated pipes and shaped pieces                                                            pcs
        Individual heat points
    5   Individual heat inlets to apartment houses                                                   pcs
        Meters
    6   Hot water meters for heat inlets                                                             pcs

     Contract/Lot # and                                                                         Amount
#                             Contract and Party Name
     Date                                                                                         US$
     KG PCO 026               Supply of insulated pipes and shaped pieces, LLC “PFK
 1                                                                                            714,542.55
     BDHE; 07.07.2011         TRUBMET”
     KG-PCO-026-2;
 2                            Supply of individual heat points, LLC “CIC”                1,411,344.97
     23.08.2011
     KG-PCO-026-3;
 3                            Supply of hot water meters, LLC “Systema”                        28,308.99
     16.06.2011
     KG-PCO-026-4;
 4                            Supply of individual heat points, LLC “CIC”                     418,484.96
     17.10.2011
     KG-PCO-026-5;            Supply of specialized machinery, lot 1-2, LLC
 5                                                                                            364,550.00
     20.03.2012               “Asiamotors”
     KG-PCO-049/4-1-4         Truck-mounted crane with manipulator arm: 15.5 ton - 1
 6                                                                                             69,975.00
     as of 21.08.2013         each. Consortium Alliance Machinery Group
     KG-PCO-50 as of
 7                            Supply of individual heat points, LLC “CIC”                     503,382.54
     20.06.2013
Total                                                                                    3,510,589,01

7 contracts were executed for OJSC “Bishkekteploset” totaling US$3,510,589.01.

7.    Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz” State Enterprise – to the amount of US$2,090,418.
“Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz” State Enterprise was supplied with the oil fuel in the amount
of US$2,625,000, backhoe loader in the amount of US$256,200.

“Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz” State Enterprise
    #   Special purpose machinery                                                       Q-ty         Unit
    1   Backhoe loader                                                                     6         unit
        Oil fuel
    2   PU coated pipes and shaped pieces                                               5000         unit




                                                     56
     Contract/Lot # and                                                               Amount
#    Date                    Contract and Party Name                                    US$
     KG PCO 010/3;           Supply of backhoe loader LLC “ABT” and SE
 1                                                                                  256,200.00
     23.08.2011              “Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz”
     KG PCO 027;             Supply of oil fuel, LLC “Kommuna Express” and
 2                                                                             2,625,000.00
     02.09.2011              SE “Kyrgyzkjilkommunsoyuz”
Total                                                                          2,881,200.00

2 contracts were executed for SE “Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz” totaling US$2,881,200.00.

8.     OJSC “Kyrgyzgas” – to the amount of US$1,889.938. The personnel and
equipment transportation vehicles, backhoe loader, steel pipes, shut-off valves, gas
meters, mobile compressor system, crane truck were supplied for OJSC “Kyrgyzgas”.

OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        Special purpose machinery                                            Q-ty         Unit
    1   Crane truck with 16 ton capacity                                        2       unit
    2   Backhoe loader                                                          5       unit
    3   Personnel and goods transportation vehicle                              6       unit
    4   Portable compressed air pump, 10 bar                                    1       unit
    5   Portable compressed air pump, 100 bar                                   1       unit
        Gas pipes
  6     Steel pipe D15                                                        20       tones
  7     Steel pipe D20                                                        21       tones
  8     Steel pipe D25                                                        25       tones
  9     Steel pipe D32                                                         1       tones
 10     Steel pipe D57x3                                                      17       tones
 11     Steel pipe D76x3.2                                                    16       tones
 12     Steel pipe D89x3.5                                                    17       tones
 13     Steel pipe D108x4                                                     12       tones
        Valves
 14     Ball valve D15                                                       1880       pcs
 15     Ball valve D20                                                       1035       pcs
 16     Ball valve D25                                                        920       pcs
 17     Ball valve D50                                                         50       pcs
 18     Ball valve D80                                                         20       pcs
 19     Ball valve D100                                                        12       pcs
        Gas meters, Gas control units, measurement systems, gas meter check systems
 20     Gas meters for the public (G4)                                     12290        pcs
 21     Gas control units                                                       7       pcs
 22     Gas meters for commercial customers (G6-25)                            50       pcs
 23     Vortex gas flow measuring system D80                                    7       pcs
 24     Vortex gas flow measuring system D150                                   2       pcs
 25     Gas flow measurement system                                             3       pcs
 26     Gas meter check system                                                  2       pcs
 27     Gas meter check system (high capacity)                                  2       pcs
        Computer equipment
 28     Portable radio set                                                     1        set

                                                57
        Contract/Lot # and                                                        Amount
#       Date                     Contract and Party Name                            US$
        KG PCO 010/4;            Supply of backhoe loader LLC “ABT” and
    1                                                                           213,500.00
        23.08.2011               OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
                                 Supply of personnel and equipment
        KG PCO 012 OJE/2;
    2                            transportation vehicles, LLC “ABM-Auto”        102,149.81
        19.09.2011
                                 and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 019/1;            Supply of pipes, "Redgate Business Corp."
    3                                                                            75,762.88
        31.08.2012               and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 019/2;            Supply of pipes, "Redgate Business Corp."
    4                                                                            66,126.86
        31.10.2011               and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
                                 Supply of stop valves, "Redgate Business
    5   KG PCO 021; 23.01.2012                                                  179,128.15
                                 Corp." and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
                                 Supply of gas meters for the public, LLC
    6   KG PCO 022; 14.11.2011   “Ala-Too Jani Shanchen” and OJSC               430,150.00
                                 "Kyrgyzgas"
                                 Supply of gas meters for the public, LLC
    7   KG PCO 023; 06.02.2012   “Ala-Too Jani Shanchen” and OJSC               144,160.00
                                 "Kyrgyzgas" (lot #2 and #6)
        KG PCO 023/1;            Supply of gas control units, "Redgate
    8                                                                            46,528.40
        27.08.2012               Business Corp." and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 023/3;            Supply of gas equipment, LLC “IIP Irvis”
    9                                                                            45,803.81
        01.04.2013               and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 023/4;            Supply of gas equipment, LLC “Ala-Too
 10                                                                              51,000.00
        02.10.2012               Jani Shanchen” and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 023/5;            Supply of gas equipment, LLC “Fakel” and
 11                                                                             264,893.62
        25.11.2013               OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 024/1;            Supply of portable compressors, LLC “ABC-
 12                                                                             114,797.62
        01.10.2012               metal” and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 024/2-1;          Supply of portable compressors, "Redgate
 13                                                                             370,212.77
        30.11.2012               Business Corp." and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 025/1;            Supply of portable radio set , LLC “Akaziya
 14                                                                              52,869.57
        03.11.2011               Electronics” and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
        KG PCO 031/1-3,          Supply of 16 ton crane trucks, LLC
 15                                                                             210,255.32
        25.11.2011               “Asiaautocenter” and OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"
Total                                                                          2,367,338.81

15 contracts were executed for OJSC “Kyrgyzgas” totaling US$2,367,338.81.

The contract and payment details are contained in the contract files and monitoring
reports. Subsidiarity agreement term is 20 years, including grace period of 7 years.
Interest rates are set at 1.5 percent for SE “Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz”, 2.5 percent for the
rest of the above companies.




                                             58
                                                          Original Subsidiary
                                     Executed Contracts          Agreements
Emergency Recovery Project                        US$                    US$
OJSC "Oshelectro"                         7,754,191.13          5,240,505.00
OJSC "Jalalabatelectro"                   5,542,314.68          3,772,416.00
OJSC "Severelectro"                       3,156,935.06            385,106.00
OJSC "Vostokelectro"                      2,505,336.82            303,191.00
OJSC "Kyrgyzgas"                          2,367,338.81          1,889,938.00
OJSC "Bishkekteploset"                    3,510,589.01          2,800,000.00
SE "Kyrgyzjilkommunsoyuz"                 2,881,200.00          2,090,418.00
OJSC "Electricheskie stancii"             6,440,776.39         14,705,000.00
                                         34,158,681.90         31,186,574.00




                                59
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents*

   1. Project Implementation Plan
   2. Emergency Project Paper for Kyrgyz Republic Emergency Recovery Project
       (ERP) dated September 16, 2010 (Report No: 56065-KG)
   3. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
   4. Project Progress Reports.
   5. MOF’s Borrower's Evaluation Report, dated February 2014
   6. MOE’s Borrower's Evaluation Report: (i) MOF dated March 2014


*including electronic files




                                        60
                                                                                72E                                               74E                                           76E                                           78E                                                80E




                                                                                                                                      K A Z A K H S TA N                                                                                                                                      44N


                                               KYRGYZ
                                               REPUBLIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                                       Ushtobe
                                                                                                                  Burylbaytal                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Panfilov




                                                                                                                                                        Chu
                                                                                                                                    BISHKEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u M
                                                                                                                                  Kara-Balta                      Tokmok                                     ata                                Tyup
                                                                  Kirov                                                                                                                        ey        -Al    Cholpon-Ata
                                           To
                                        Shymkent
                                                                                         T
                                                                                         Talas
                                                                                          alas                                          CHUI                                          K    ung                                                  Karakol
                                                                                                                                                                                              Balykchi      Lake Issyk-Kul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peak Pobedy
                                                                                  TA L A S                                         Tunuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISSYK-KUL                                      7439 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Barskaun                             Enilchek                    42N
                 42N
                                                                 tkal
                                                              ha                   Toktogul               Toktogul
                                                             C                                                                                  Chaek
                                                                                  Reservoir                                                                                                                                                            Shyirak
                                                                 JALAL-ABAD                                                             T i Lake Sonkul
                                                                                                                                               a n                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                         S      h         a
                                                                                                   Kara-Kul                                                                                                                      Kara-Say
                                                                                                                                                   N a ry n
                                                                                       Tash-Kumyr                                                                                     Nar yn
                                                                                                                                                                                      Naryn
                              U Z B E K I S TAN                                                                                                         NARYN
                                                                                                                                                                At-Bashy
                          To
                       Tashkent
                                                                                                              Jalal-Abad                                                                    say
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ak
                                                                                                                                                                Lake                                                                        0       25       50     75       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                              Charyi-Kel'
                                                                                                                     Kurs
                                                                                                                         hab
                                                                                                     Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0               25       50           75 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78E                                                80E
                                                                                                                        Gul'cha
                    To                                                                Kyzyl-Kiya
                  Bukhoro
                 40N
                                  Sulyukta                                                                OSH                                                                                                          40N
                                                   Batken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                                   B AT K E N                                                    Sary-Tash
                                                                                                                                                                         To

                                                                                 Daraut- K
                                                                                           yz    yl Suu                                                                 Hotan                  CHINA                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                 Korgan                                                                                                                                                                OBLAST CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS

                                                            TA J I K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                              Murghab                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                              RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33430
                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     70E                                  72E                                                   74E                                                 76E
