                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No:




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                          OF
                           EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                             CREDIT OF SDR 25.30 MILLION
                           AND GRANT OF SDR 21.10 MILLION
                                  30 September, 2010


                                                TO THE

                                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC


                                           December 4, 2012




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
CENTRAL ASIA COUNTRY UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 3, 2012)

                      Currency Unit      =       Kyrgyz Som (KGS)
                      US$1.00            =       47.3384 (KGS)

                                Weights and Measures
                                      Metric System




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CASA-1000 Project     Central Asia South Asia Project
CHP                   Combined Heat and Power Plant
DPO                   Development Policy Operation
JEPIG                 Joint Energy Project Implementation Group
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
TA                    Technical Assistance




              Regional Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houérou
                    Country Director:             Saroj Kumar Jha
                     Sector Manager:              Ivailo V. Izvorski
                   Task Team Leader:              Afsaneh Sedghi




                                             1
                                          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                     EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                 Page
A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 4
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 6




                                                                   2
                       EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

The Emergency Recovery Project was approved on September 30, 2010 in order to
mitigate the impact of the April and June 2010 violence upon public finances and access
to energy. The proposed changes under the current restructuring include: (i) addition of a
new results indicator to monitor the technical assistance; (ii) addition of technical
assistance to the scope of Component 2; (iii) reallocation of project funds in the amount
of US $1.068 million from Component 1 to Component 2, and (iv) extension of the
project closing date by twelve months to December 31, 2013. These changes will allow
completion of ongoing procurements and delivery of critical items of equipment in the
amount of US $10.1 million under Component 2, utilization of approximately US $5.0
million in uncommitted funds, and the provision of critical technical assistance for energy
sector reform and the Central Asia-South Asia electricity transmission project (CASA-
1000).


B. PROJECT STATUS

Overall, the project implementation is progressing smoothly, but has not made up for
implementation delays incurred in the year following the 2010 disturbances.

Component 1 is nearly completed. Component 1 retroactively financed gas purchases
from Uzbekistan to ensure the availability of supplies for winter heating as well as
provision of textbooks, furniture, and computers for schools, in order to free up budget
resources for the government to finance high priority expenditures. The outcome and
results indicators for Component 1 are fully met and, in some cases, have exceeded
project targets.

The implementation of Component 2 on “Rehabilitation and Repair of Energy
Infrastructure and Networks? was initially delayed due to the delayed conclusion of the
Subsidiary Credit Agreements between the Ministry of Finance and the energy
companies who are the final recipients of the project funds. To a lesser extent, there were
also procurement delays. With the signing of the Subsidiary Agreements in March 2011,
extensive implementation support by the Bank and strengthened capacity of the PIU,
procurement has significantly accelerated since July 2011. About 54 percent of the funds
under Component 2 are disbursed, and an additional 29 percent of the funds are already
committed through signed contracts. A number of large packages are under procurement,
at the stage of evaluation and tendering. However, some critical pieces of equipment
under these contracts (power transformers, circuit breakers) are unlikely to be delivered
by the current closing date of the project. Further, because of cost savings there will
remain about US $5.0 million in uncommitted funds after the ongoing procurements are
completed. The outcome and results indicators for Component 2 are either met, or will be
fully met once the remaining funds are utilized. Specifically, access to power supply has
been restored for 19,000 households in the cities of Jalalabad and Osh, and the heat

                                            3
supply availability in Osh in 2010/11 and 2011/12 heating seasons has been 153 percent
of the level in 2009/10 (see the target values in Annex 1).

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Results Indicators: Due to the proposed expansion of the scope of Component 2, an
additional results indicator is added to the Results Framework to monitor the delivery of
commercial and legal advisory services for CASA-1000 project and the completion of
public outreach activities (see Annex 1).

Components: The scope of Component 2 will be expanded to include limited technical
assistance. The technical assistance will support the government’s energy sector reform program
published in October 2012 and supported by the Bank’s proposed Development Policy
Operations. Additionally, the technical assistance will finance country advisors to support the
government in their negotiations of the Central Asia-South Asia electricity transmission project
(CASA-1000). Both these measures will ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the
energy sector and thus will help the government address winter power shortages.

Financing: As a result of the proposed reallocation (from originally agreed Component
costs in the Project Paper), the project costs for Component 1 will be reduced by US
$1.068 million and the project costs for Component 2 will increase by the same amount.

                             Project Costs (US$ million)
                Components/Activities                  Current                  Proposed
 Component 1: high priority expenditures                 35.0                     33.9
 pertaining to emergency recovery and
 reconstruction
 Component 2: rehabilitation and repair of               35.0                      36.1
 emergency infrastructure and networks


Closing date: It is proposed to extend the Closing Date of the project from December 31,
2012 to December 31, 2013. The proposed extension is necessary to deliver, install, and
test the critical pieces of equipment under the existing contracts for Component 2, to
utilize approximately US $5.0 million in uncommitted funds, and to provide technical
assistance to the government for energy sector reform measures to be supported by the
proposed DPOs and country advisors for the regional CASA-1000 project commercial
negotiations. The PIU (JEPIG) has prepared a Procurement Plan for the utilization of the
uncommitted funds. The Plan includes relatively large packages and equipment with
technical specifications that has already been used under the project. This should allow
completion of ongoing procurements and delivery of all goods and services by the
revised project Closing Date of December 31, 2013. In order to avoid a need for further
extensions, no new procurement for goods or works will be launched during 2013. This
will be the first extension of the project.

The audit reports for the project have been received on time and have been acceptable to
the Association.


                                               4
                                                                               ANNEX 1:
                                                                   Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Emergency Recovery Project
Project Development Objective (PDO): assist the Kyrgyz Republic in: (i) strengthening the prospects for macroeconomic stability and the government’s fiscal resilience to me et the
priority needs of its emergency recovery and reconstruction program; and (ii) restoring and ensuring continuous provision of basic energy services with a focus on the affected areas so
as to support economic output and provide adequate heating to population during the winter
Revised Project Development Objective: N/A
                                                                             D=Dropped
                                                                                                                                       Target Values**
                                                                             C=Continue




                                                                      Core
                 PDO Level Results Indicators*                               N= New        Baseline
                                                                             R=Revised                     YR 1             YR 2               YR 3                     YR4

Indicator One: ensure adequate budget financing for education,
health and social allowances for the poor, measured as percent of                C          10.3           11.2              8.4                7.0                      7.0
GDP
Indicator Two: restore access to power supply in the cities of
Jalalabad and Osh regions as measured by number of reconnected                   C              0         6,000            19,000                0                        0
households
Indicator Three: maintain the heat supply availability in Osh in
2010/11 and 2011/12 winters at levels equivalent to corresponding                                     ≥100 percent      ≥100 percent      ≥100 percent             ≥100 percent
periods in 2009 as measured by percentage of available heat
                                                                                 C           NA
output
                                                                                    INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One):

Intermediate Result indicator One: Payments on teacher and
doctor salaries, pensions, social allowances made on time, as                    C              0           0                 0                  0                        0
measured by no arrears
Intermediate Result indicator Two: The financing from the Bank
used as intended, as measured by number of audits
                                                                                 C              0           1                 2                  2                        2
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Intermediate Result indicator One: Repair and rehabilitation of gas
network as measured by number of restored gas connections
                                                                                C               0          27               1197                 0                        0
Intermediate Result indicator Two: Supply of fuel for Osh CHP, in
Tons
                                                                                C               0        12,000             8,000               0.0                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                            Commercial and legal
                                                                                                                                                            advisory services for CASA-
Intermediate Result indicator Three: The technical assistance in
                                                                                                                                                            1000 are delivered, Ministry
support of the public outreach and country advisors for CASA-                   N           NA             NA                NA                NA           of Energy website is
1000 delivered.
                                                                                                                                                            constructed and regional
                                                                                                                                                            consultations are conducted


                                                                                            5
