Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11751-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 24, 1993
South Asia Region
Country Department III
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eauivalents
Rupee 1.00 = US$0.04
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 26.27
Weiqhts and Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AERU    -    Agricultural Economics Research Unit
AI      -    Artificial Insemination
AJK     -    Azad Jammu and Kashmir
AKRSP   -    Agha Khan Rural Support Program
AO      -    Agricultural Officer
ATI     -    Agricultural Training Institute
CCF     -    Chief Conservator of Forests
DFO     -    Divisional Forest Officer
DOA     -    Department of Agriculture
DOAH    -    Department of Animal Health
DOF     -    Department of Forestry
ECNEC   -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA      -    Field Assistant
FWO     -    Frontier Works Organization
GOAJK   -    Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
GOP     -    Government of Pakistan
HFTDP   -    Hill Farming Technical Development Project
IHFDP   -    Integrated Hill Farming Development Project
LDC     -    Livestock Development Center
LG&RD   -    Local Government and Rural Development Department
NARC    -    National Agricultural Research Center
NCS     -    National Conservation Strategy
PARC    -    Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PC-l    -    Planning Commission Form No. 1
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
P&DD     -   Planning and Development Department
PRU     -    Privatization and Reorganization Unit
PWD     -    Public Works Department
SA      -    Stock Assistant
SCARP   -    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SFW     -    Social Forestry Wing
SMS     -    Subject Matter Specialist
SMU     -    Social Mobilization Unit
TARU    -    Training and Advisory Research Unit
TP      -    Technical Package
VDC     -    Village Development Committee



PAKISTAN                                   FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Northern Resource Management Projlect
Table of Contents
sUe No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ................................................ iii-v
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ............................................ 1
Project Genesis  ................................................  1
Project Background  ................                        ................................ 1
H. ISSUES, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES .                       .........................................   2
Natural Resource Management Issues   . ...........................................   2
Institutional Weaknesses ................................................. 3
Inappropriate Regulations and Legislation .......................................... 6
Little Public Awareness ................................................. 6
InsuMcient Community Participation  .............................................   6
Policy Issues   ................................................   7
Strategy for Hill Areas in AJK  ................................................    8
National Conservation Strategy and Its Implications for AJK  ...........................  8
World Bank Group and Other Donors' Strategy  ..............                      .......................   8
Bank Group Lending ........................................................... 9
Related Projects and Lessons Learned  ............................................  9
Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................................ 10
M. THE PROJECT .11
Project Objectives  .           ..........................................................  11
Summary Description ................                    .........................................  11
Detailed Features .         ............................................................ 13
A. Policy Actions .         .......................................................... 13
B. Institutional Strengthening  ................................................. 15
(a) Department of Agriculture  ........................................... 15
(b) Department of Animal Husbandry   ..................................... 17
(c) Department of Forestry   .............................................  18
C. Other Institutional Strengthening    ........................................... 18
D. Basic Technical Services  ..................................................  19
E. Pilot Areas   .          ..........................................................  19
F. Improvement to Rural Roads .......................                                                        20
Project Costs and Financing Plan .20
A. Project Cost Summary .20
B. Financing .22
Procurement .23
Disbursements.                                                                                                    25
Retroactive Finaning .26
Accounts and Audit .................................... .................... 26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in March 1993. Mission
members included Messrs. Guy Motha (Task Manager), Abdul Qaiyum Shelkh and Rashed Ul Qayyum
(IDA). Ms. Haeyoung Lee (SA3AG) undertook the economic and financial analyses. Messrs. Colin Rees
(ASTEN), Jock Anderson (AGRAP), and N. Sharma (AGRTN) are the peer reviewers. Mr. Paul Isenman
is the Country Director, and Mr. Ridwan Ali is the Agricultural Operations Division Chief of Country
Department 3, South Asia Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV. ORGANIZATIONAND MANAGEMENT    ...................................... 26
Implementation ...................................... 26
Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reform  ...................................... 27
Pilot Areas ...................................... 30
Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................... 30
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFCATION AND RISKS ....................................... 32
Benefits ...................................... 32
Environmental Effects ....................................... 33
Risks ...................................... 34
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................   35
ANNEXES
ANNEX I            Resource Management Treatments and Techniques .37
ANNEXII             Communy Participatory Approach .41
ANNEX I            Table: Rural Road Improvement Program.                                  45
ANNEX IV           Table: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .46
ANNEX V            Table: IDA Project Supervision Plan .47
ANNEX VI           Procurement Implementation Schedule .48
ANNEX VII   Economic Analysis .49
ANNEX Vm           Allocation and Disbursement of the Proposed IDA Credit .55
ANNEX Table 1   ProJect Components by Year .56
ANNEX Table 2  Project Cost Summary .57
CHARTI             Existing Organization of the Department of Agriculture .58
CHART II           Existing Organization of the Department of Animal Husbandry .59
CHART II           Existing Organization of the Forestry Department Azad Jammu & Kashmir .... 60
CHARTVI            Proposed Organization of the Department of Agriculture .61
CHART V            Proposed Organization of the Department of Animal Husbandry .62
CHART VI           Proposed Organization of the Forestry Department Azad Jammu & Kashmir ... 63
CHART VII          Proposed Organization of Planning and Development Department .64
MAP                IBRD 24703



- iii -
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENTPROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Amount:            Credit: SDR 20.4 million (US$ 28.8 million) equivalent
Terms:             Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project
Description:       The five year project is designed to provide the basis for
the sustainable and economically efficient use of land
resources in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), which ranks with
the country's poorest and most environmentally fragile
areas. The project has three broad fronts: (i) improving
the policy framework within AJK for the use of land
resources (including the role of the private and public
sectors); (ii) restructuring and strengthening the main
institutions that help manage and protect the land resources
in AJK; and (iii) testing, on a pilot basis, programs
whereby communities take full management and financial
responsibility for planning and implementation of activities
covering land resources in the communities. Under
(i) above, input production and distribution programs would
be phased out through a program for transfer of these
activities to the private sector. Associated with the
transfer is a program for the phased elimination of
subsidies on inputs. The specific activities for transfer
and subsidy removal are production of vegetable seed, seed
potato, fruit tree and forest tree seedling production;
field crop seed (wheat, maize, and oats), and fertilizer
distribution and poultry vaccination. Changes would also be
made to the current practices and policies that apply to
community approaches to the management of communal lands.
Under (ii), the project would restructure and streamline the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Department of Animal
Husbandry (DOAH) and the Department of Forestry (DOF). The
restructuring is at the request of AJK, but refinements are
made to ensure that the agencies cater to the redefined
objectives. Production and input distribution would be
handed over to the private sector and these agencies would
concentrate on the core activities of technology
dissemination and working with communities. The effect of
these measures is an overall net reduction in public sector
staff. The Planning and Economic Services would be



- iv -
moderately expanded to enable analysis, planning, monitoring
and evaluation. A Social Forestry Wing would be added to
DOF to assist in community participatory approaches to
management of communal lands, extension training, soil
conservation and range management. AJK's Planning and
Development Department would be supported by staff for
environmental screening and land use planning. It would
also be strengthened by a Privatization and Reorganization
Unit to be established temporarily and to be responsible for
phasing out the production and input distribution
activities, input subsidies and re-deployment of staff.
Under (iii), pilot schemes would be introduced in five areas
where farmers would take on responsibility for the planning,
execution, and financial management of the resource
management programs. A Social Mobilization Unit would be
established to assist communities, including women in
forming groups. A rural road improvement program would
support the economic viability of the pilot schemes.
Benefits:          The project would benefit farmers in AJK directly through
the introduction of environmentally friendly and profitable
technical practices, which would increase incomes. In the
area of human resources, training activities and public
awareness programs will provide a better knowledge of
environmental degradation and remedial measures for
conservation of resources. The project would contribute to
the empowerment of rural communities, creation of local
management capabilities, and acknowledgement and enhancement
of the role of women in the management of natural resources.
Risks:            A possible risk is that the local communities may be slow in
forming community participatory groups. However, it is
expected that experience already gained by the community in
recent participatory approaches, active involvement of the
Social Mobilization Unit, consultancy staff provided under
the project, the technical input from the government support
services, and mass education and training would contribute
to a high level of farmer interest. Another risk is that
the returns from the project may be inadequate. However,
experience to date with development and dissemination of
technical packages has on balance been positive. The
returns to rural roads have been quite good. Using pilot
projects with promising, but not yet widely tested,
approaches before widespread dissemination will mitigate
risks. The risk of financial sustainability of public
sector resource management institutions is being addressed
by a net overall reduction in size of public sector agencies
and elimination of subsidies. A third risk is that the
phased program of transfer of activities and subsidy
elimination may be delayed. However, adequate safeguards
have been built into the project such as the Privatization
and Reorganization Unit, annual evaluations and technical
assistance to ensure that targets are met.



- v -
Estimated Costs and FinancinQ Plan
US$ million
Estimated Costs                             Local              Foreign             Total
A. Institutional Restructuring/Support:
Agricultural Services                                       1.4                 2.2                 3.6
Extension and Adaptive Research                             0.4                 0.4                 0.8
Community Forestry & Resource Management                    5.4                 0.6                 6.0
Community Awareness & Education                             0.1                 0.1                 0.2
Policy Planning & Evaluation                                2.0                 0.7                 2.7
Sub-Total                                                9.3                 4.0                13.3
B. Basic Technical Services                                     5.4                 1.6                 7.0
C. Road Improvement                                             6.9                 1.5                 8.4
D. Pilot Schemes                                                1.0                 0.9                 1.9
Total Base Costs                                         22.6                 8.0               30.6
Physical Contingencies                                       2.1                 0.8                2.9
Price Contingencies                                          1.9                 0.6                2.5
Total Project Costs                                      26.6                 9.4               36.0
FinancinQ Plan
US$ million
Local                   Foreign                     Total
Beneficiaries                                    1.5                                                 1.5
GOP                                              5.7                                                 5.7
IDA                                             19.4                      9.4                       28.8
Total                                           26.6                       9.4                      36.0
US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA Disbursements    94                        95         96        97        98         99        00
Annual                                        1.0        4.1       4.4       4.7        6.8       6.7        1.1
Accumulative                                  1.0       5.1        9.5      14.2       21.0      27.7       28.8






PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Prolect Genesis
1.1       The Bank has been supporting developmental activities in Azad Jammu
and Kashmir (AJK) since 1978, when the Hill Farming Technical Development
Project (HFTDP) became effective. Following this three year project, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) requested that the Bank assist AJK with a follow-
up project. The Integrated Hill Farming Development Project (IHFDP) commenced
in 1985 and was completed in March 1992. The major objective of the project,
which was confined to only two of the five districts in AJK, was to use the
research results of the earlier project to introduce techniques to conserve
AJK's environment and improve the welfare of its people.
1.2       Even before the completion of the IHFD project, the GOP requested
that the Bank assist with a further project covering the three other districts
of AJK, as well as the Northern Areas of Pakistan. FAO/CP preparatory
missions visited Pakistan in November 1990 and again in October 1991 following
which it was decided to exclude the Northern Areas as it was already well
served by other donor assisted projects. The proposed project was redesigned
between May and December 1992 to emphasize sustainable and efficient use of
land resources through institutional restructuring and improving the policy
framework that influences the use of land resources for the AJK. The project
was appraised in March 1993. This project complements the Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project approved in FY92, in that it aims
to implement sustainable resource management strategies at the field level
while the emphasis of the former is on strengthening federal and provincial
environmental protection institutions - legislation, policies and
environmental screening programs.
Project Background
1.3       AJK is located at the foothills of the Himalayas.  AJK covers an
area of 13,300 km2 and has a population of about 2.6 million. The population
rate of growth is 2.7 % per annum. Per capita income is only about US$280 per
annum compared to US$410 for Pakistan. AJK has a special status vis-a-vis
Pakistan. It has its own President, Prime Minister and Legislative Assembly
and has a number of political, administrative and developmental
responsibilities, but matters relating to finance and defence are handled by
the GOP.
1.4       AJK is divided into five administrative districts.  Public
administration is supported by a number of local councils - five district
councils, 129 union councils and 1,036 village councils. The responsibilities
of the local councils include the development of social infrastructure within
their communities and participation in development planning.



- 2 -
1.5       Annual projections for expenditures and incomes by the Government
of AJK (GOAJK) are set out in the budgets prepared by the Finance Department.
In 1992-93, the total current income to government is projected to be Rs 995.0
million. The bulk of this (75%) is to come from various charges and revenues
accruing to government agencies such as sale of electricity and royalties and
profits from the sale of timber. Current non-developmental expenditures are
expected to be Rs 4,433.0 million, leaving a current budgetary deficit of
Rs 3,438.0 million. The current budgetary deficit as well as funds for
capital expenditure are provided through loans and grants through the Ministry
of Finance in Pakistan.
1.6       Over 90% of the population of AJK live in rural areas and are
engaged in agriculture. Agriculture is carried out on small farms on terraced
land and steep hillsides mainly for subsistence. Forest land covers 42* of
AJK and the remainder is divided between cultivated land, cultivable waste
land and uncultivable wasteland. Of the forest lands, about 27% is
productive, 32% is potentially productive but currently poorly stocked, 6% is
protective forests and 35% is permanent range. Most of the potentially
productive forests are situated close to village settlements. Timber on
shamlat (community owned) and Khalsa (state owned) land is practically
exhausted due to excessive exploitation. The lack of proper management is a
result of inadequate institutions and policies to ensure sustainable
exploitation practices.
II. ISSUES, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
Natural Resource Management Issues
2.1       AJK's economy relies heavily on the productivity of its natural
resources. However, these resources are deteriorating rapidly due to
increasing human and livestock population and improper land use.
Indiscriminate tree cutting on the hills and excessive grazing are resulting
increasing shortages of fuelwood and fodder. It is also leading to a loss of
soil cover and consequently severe degradation in hilly areas.
2.2       The productivity of crops, fodder, livestock and forests in AJK is
very low and is declining. There is a close connection between poverty,
agricultural productivity and environmental degradation. The major focus of
policy makers, extension workers and farmers in AJK has been to increase
agricultural production with insufficient attention paid to developing
sustainable resource management systems. The primary institutions responsible
for natural resource management in AJK - the Department of Agriculture (DOA),
Department of Animal Husbandry (DOAH) and the Department of Forestry (DOF) are
weak and in need of restructuring if they are to be responsive to AJK's most
pressing challenges. There are market failures because of inadequate economic
policies, and institutional and infrastructural weaknesses which have an
adverse effect on resource management. There are government interventions in
the production and input distribution activities which require a re-
examination of the role of the private and public sectors. Past approaches to
agricultural development emphasized investment in physical capital but there
is a growing realization that there is a need for increased investment in



- 3 -
institutional, organizational and human capital to fully utilize the results
of research and proven technology for sustainable resource management.
2.3       Forests constitute the predominant land use in AJK and most of the
potentially productive, but poorly stocked forest land is in the vicinity of
villages and hamlets and is under severe pressure. Local communities have
traditional rights to timber extraction for construction of buildings,
deadwood and branches for fuel, collection of fodder and free grazing. Large
areas of forests are denuded leading to soil erosion, disruption of the
hydrological cycle, loss of wildlife habitat and the local population are
gradually being deprived of valuable multi-purpose production and service
functions provided by forests.
2.4       Rangelands are also subject to overgrazing.  Vegetative cover is
essential to ensure good infiltration and prevent rapid run off. Available
indications are that localized degradation is taking place, especially in
spring when pastures are grazed prematurely and some compaction of soils takes
place. The erosion in the sub-watersheds in AJK has an adverse impact
downstream. The rate of sedimentation in the Mangla catchment area, which is
the area served by the watersheds of AJK, for the period 1967-83, was 34,000
acre feet per year.
2.5       Ineffective management of communal lands has been identified as the
most important single reason for the degradation of non-arable lands.
Overgrazing, over-harvesting and over collection of biomass products are cited
as causes for this degradation; the central problem being the lack of
sustainable protection and management. However, successful management through
local community participation does provide a basis for developing new
strategies with increased potential for sustainability. Recent approaches to
the problems in Pakistan and neighboring countries emphasize the setting up of
local community groups as beneficiaries to take on a greater responsibility
for the management and protection of communal lands to ensure sustainable land
resource management.
Institutional Weaknesses
2.6       The Planning and Development Department (P&DD) in AJK has the task
of preparing and implementing development plans and coordinating, monitoring
and evaluating the activities of the line agencies. P&DD is headed by the
Additional Chief Secretary (Development) and comprises a Director General and
five Chiefs of Sections covering Agriculture, Education and Industry, Health,
Technical Services and Economic Affairs. P&DD is very poorly staffed and the
plan formulation function is extremely limited. The monitoring function is
confined to a few externally funded projects while evaluation is virtually
non-existent. P&DD does not have the expertise or the staff to deal with
resource management and conservation issues.
2.7       Under the Secretary, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry are DOA and
DOAH. The present organizational structure of DOA and DOAH is in Chart I and
Chart II, respectively. DOA is the key institution in AJK for the
utilization, management and protection of the land resources. However, the
current structure of the department is not suited to carry out these
functions. The extension network is weak. The present ratio of one field
officer to 2,000 farm families makes it near impossible for the extension
staff to have regular contact with farmers. In addition, DOA has over the



years expanded into input distribution and production activities, consequently
promotion of new agricultural techniques has not received due attention. In a
number of instances, DOA has responded to carry out production and input
distribution activities directly, rather than through the farming or trading
community.
2.8       Natural resource management has received little attention to date
and DOA is ill-equipped to handle resource management issues in a
comprehensive manner. There is a need for staff training and development to
deal specifically with on-farm soil conservation and agro forestry for the
hilly areas which typify most of AJK. Staff also need to be trained to be
able to adopt new approaches to group formation of communities as
beneficiaries. A Planning and Economic Services Section exists within DOA but
its scope is limited. It has a skeleton staff; does not provide economic
analysis on sectoral policy development and investment or conduct any
evaluation of on-going activity. In addition, this section does not undertake
any monitoring or evaluation of on-going or completed activities. DOA was
last reorganized in 1974. The need for reorganization is accepted by the
administration and DOA has itself unsuccessfully put forward proposals on
several occasions.
2.9       Until now the mandate of DOA was to increase agricultural
production and a fair degree of success has been achieved in this regard. The
strategy adopted by DOA placed emphasis on: (a) introducing new agricultural
technologies to the prevalent farming systems; and (b) providing inputs to the
farming community through a widely dispersed extension service. While
technical packages (TPs) have been developed for various agro-climatic zones,
their prime objective has been to increase farm production with little
attention to farm resource management, restoration of soil fertility and
integrated pest management practices. With the increased emphasis of DOA on
the production and input distribution activities, there has been an acute
shortage of operational funding for developing different TPs which address the
resource conservation issues of the various existing farm systems. The
extension system which was strengthened and reformed in the IHFDP areas
appears to lack sustainability: the elements of extensive and regular contacts
with the farmers, supervision and accountability of extension agents, regular
training, and extensive demonstrations have been considerably weakened. The
extension service in other areas is mainly confined to inputs distribution.
The training aspects of the extension agents and the farmers need to be based
on a well defined strategy. The means to be deployed for imparting such
training are either too few or are not compatible with state of the art
technology. The development of TPs should not be viewed as a one time
process: it needs to be constantly reviewed and refined so as to meet the
needs and expectations of the farmers for whom the TPs are developed.
2.10      DOAH provides technical services to livestock producers.  The major
failure of DOAH to date stems from the fact that it has been unable to meet
the challenge of changing the currently low productivity of livestock farming
which relies too heavily on grazing on communal and state land and subsequent
degradation. To meet this challenge, productivity of local animals have to be
increased substantially through breed improvement and better feeding based on
improved fodder and stall feeding. Both animal health and artificial
insemination (AI) services are inadequate and fodder production falls short of
the demand of AJK. The main animal health preventive services are currently
undertaken by government and could be better done by the private sector.



There is a need to strengthen research in fodder and stall feeding and improve
the AI services. The staff is in need of training so as to be able to
introduce new technologies to the farmer and the animal health staff should
provide training to private vaccinators. There is also a need for DOAH staff
to assist in community approaches to collection of fodder and stall feeding of
animals.
2.11      The DOF is responsible for the protection, development and
exploitation of forests, conservation of catchment areas, development of
rangeland, tourism and wildlife management. The present organization is in
Chart III. The major weaknesses of DOF is that until now it has not been able
to introduce programs and policies designed to arrest the ongoing depletion of
the forest areas both on state and communal lands. The staff of DOF have been
overly concerned with the protection of state forests but have not succeeded
in introducing a management or protection system which reduces the depletion
of the state forests or involve the communities in the management of the
forest resources on communal lands. The level of reforestation undertaken by
DOF has lagged behind the rate of exploitation of timber and fuelwood by the
local population. DOF has not been involved in any measurable way in the
management and development of communal lands nor has it introduced farm
forestry programs or community participatory approaches for the management and
protection of communal lands. There is a need to train DOF staff in community
participatory approaches, especially with fostering of new community
institutions to take responsibility for the management of communal lands.
There is also a need for greater emphasis on social forestry, evaluation of
social forestry approaches in Pakistan and elsewhere, and for assistance in
design of specific management systems for communal lands.
2.12      DOF has within its organization a Land Use Planning Unit which was
set up in 1987 under the IHFDP project. This Unit has made a useful
contribution to AJK through the preparation of recommended land use maps for
watersheds and assisted in many other ways in the planning and development of
AJK. While a substantial portion of its output is for DOF, there is a large
unsatisfied demand for the services of the Unit from other government
agencies. There is a need for the Unit to be strengthened and made more
accessible to all government agencies so that it could play a more coordinated
and effective role.
2.13      Responsibility for road construction and maintenance is shared by
the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Local Government and Rural
Development Department (LG&RD). The PWD is responsible for the primary and
secondary road systems while LG&RD deals mainly with small unsurfaced roads.
Under the Seventh and Eighth Plans, high priority was accorded to the GOAJK
strategy of linking all district headquarters and construction of link roads
to connect all Union Council headquarters. However, the achievements under
the Seventh Plan fell far short of targets in part due to inadequately trained
staff and limited equipment. The PWD can only undertake a small part of the
work program in AJK. Road maintenance is poor because of a lack of funds and
staff resources. Because of the limited capacity of PWD, the Frontier Works
Organization (FWO), a military organization, undertakes road construction and
maintenance as contractors to PWD.



-6 -
InaRproRriate Regulations and Legislation
2.14      Pakistan's laws and regulations relating to the use of resources
from state lands and communal property (which also apply to AJK) are outmoded
and do not facilitate effective and sustainable natural resource management.
While the AJK Forestry Department is responsible for managing both the state
and community owned forests, they are often unable to prevent the community
from engaging in unauthorized timber cutting, fuelwood collection and
livestock grazing. Large disputes have often arisen between communities and
the Forestry Department over ownership rights to forests. The laws and
regulations which apply to all Pakistan (including AJK) are being addressed
under the Bank assisted Environmental Protection and Natural Resource
Conservation Project.
Little Public Awareness
2.15      Resource degradation and depletion have been considered to be a
necessary adverse impact of agricultural development and policy makers in
Pakistan did little to arrest this trend. However, more recently, there is
increasing awareness that natural resource degradation can threaten growth
itself and its cost to society in the long run could be extremely high.
Public awareness, particularly among the poor and the illiterate needs to be
increased through mass media and education if sustainable and economically
efficient use of land resources is to be practiced by the community. Mass
education is also necessary if community participation is to play a greater
role in resource management.
Insufficient Community Participation
2.16      Like other provincial forestry departments, AJK has, till now,
adopted an authoritarian approach to dealing with hill area communities. The
Forestry Department needs to involve the communities in forest management and
development, especially on communal lands. They have failed in their
rangeland management responsibilities and have been slow to promote new
practices. Many of the management practices are outmoded and must change to
meet the problems created by increased human and livestock populations.
2.17      At the village level, agricultural activities are carried out by
farmers on their own land as well as on the adjacent communal lands. The
communal lands are mainly forests and rangelands which are used by farmers for
extraction of fuelwood and for grazing of livestock on the basis of customary
access. In recent years, increasing human and livestock populations have led
to excessive exploitation of the communal lands. There is an institutional
vacuum at the local level to address this issue as traditional institutions
have become weak or disintegrated and new community institutions to manage
natural resources have not emerged. Line agencies and community
representatives have played their limited role in the process, but they are
not substitutes for local participatory institutions.
2.18      Under the recently completed Bank assisted IHFD Project, a start
was made for involving the communities in the management of communal lands
through agreements which were entered into between the government and the
community for reforestation and benefit sharing. Under these agreements the
cost of plantation establishment and maintenance was borne by the government
while the benefits (financial proceeds of the harvest) was to be shared by the



community and the government on a 25:75 basis respectively. Similar practices
were introduced in other donor assisted projects in AJK. The experience and
lessons learnt from IHFDP and the Agha Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP)
provide an adequate basis for development of communal lands by the
beneficiaries through community participatory approaches. The communities are
more involved in the planning and execution of the program, the "top down
approach" is being replaced by community based institutional structures which
fill the institutional vacuum created by the breakdown of traditional
institutions, and at least part of the operational costs of reforestation is
being met by the community.
Policy Issues
2.19      In part due to the isolation, harsh environment and the low income
levels, GOAJK has assisted the agricultural sector with programs and policies
designed to increase agricultural production with little or no emphasis on
sustainable land resource management. The overall policy framework is
inadequate. There is an excessive involvement of government in activities
which could be undertaken by the private sector. In addition, there has been
no clear role for the public and private sectors in assisting the farming
sector. Inputs are also heavily subsidized leading to market failures.
Subsidies operate for fertilizers, forest and fruit tree seedlings, vegetable
seed, and other food crop and fodder seed, and poultry vaccinations. The
government is also engaged in the production of inputs such as forest and
fruit tree seedlings, vegetable seed and seed potato, and has been engaged in
the distribution of fertilizer, and field crop seed (wheat, maize and oats).
The government has also provided subsidized animal health services.
2.20      In recent years, however, some of these subsidies have been
gradually reduced or withdrawn. Fertilizers are now distributed through
commission agents and pesticides are privatized. The subsidy on other inputs
is gradually being withdrawn in line with the policy changes taking place in
this regard for Pakistan as a whole. Government, however, has not reduced its
role in input production and distribution activities. Nor has government yet
been involved in any measurable way in sustainable resource management
strategies designed to reduce the negative effects of the individual actions
of farmers or the community at large by way of deforestation, soil erosion,
rangeland degradation and loss of biodiversity.
2.21      There is increasing evidence that there is a divergence between
private costs and social costs as a result of market, policy and institutional
failures which result in spatial and inter-temporal externalities in the
activities of the hill farming communities of AJK. The negative externalities
- deforestation, rangeland degradation, siltation of reservoirs, loss wildlife
habitats and hydrological imbalance due to the activities of peoples in and
around their farms underscore the need for government intervention based on a
sustainable resource management strategy. Policies should be put in place to
reflect the true opportunity costs of resource use. Such intervention should
take the form of providing incentives for adaption of sustainable resource
management techniques in achieving increased productivity of resources,
education, training and advise on sustainable and environmentally sound
resource management techniques and practices to raise incomes.



- 8-
Strategy for Hill Areas in AJK
2.22      The broad strategy for hill areas pursued under the project is
consistent with overall Bank country assistance strategy for Pakistan. Its
objectives are: (i) to increase the productivity and incomes of the farming
community and reduce poverty; and (ii) develop and use natural resources in
the hill areas of AJK in an economically sustainable and ecologically sound
manner. The strategy emphasizes developing and strengthening human resources
and local capacity and institutions; improving the policy framework through
privatization and subsidy removal, formulating and extending adaptive research
focussing on community groups and adaptive research aimed at introducing
environmentally friendly TPs and farming techniques. The strategy takes into
account the lessons learned from earlier Bank projects, the experience of
other donors operating in AJK (International Fund for Agricultural Development
and World Food Program) and of AKRSP, especially in group formation and
community participation.
2.23      Specifically, the project will focus on: (i) revision of policies
and regulations which contribute to resource degradation and poverty; (ii)
institutional restructuring and strengthening, including support services, at
both the level of government and of the local community; (iii) participation
of local communities in project design and implementation to improve natural
resource management, including management of common property resources; and
(iv) provision of necessary infrastructure facilities for better access to
markets.
National Conservation Strategy and Its Implications for AJK
2.24      The above strategy is linked with the National Conservation
Strategy (NCS) of GOP for promoting effective natural resource and
environmental management. The NCS evolved following extensive consultations
with governmental and private institutions, NGOs, in particular, the AKRSP,
and communities. The strategy is detailed as follows: create greater public
awareness of the need for natural resource conservation; promote greater
participation by local communities in resource conservation and sustainable
land management practices; promote income generating activities through
community participation on common property resources; enable grassroots
organizations to identify, design and implement projects; target attainable
development programs at lower income groups; identify non legislative
incentives to develop good land husbandry; improve the quality of soil, water
and air; and reduce soil erosion and sediment yield.
World Bank GrouR and Other Donors' Strategy
2.25      The Bank and other donors support Pakistan's resource conservation
strategies as enunciated in the NCS. The Bank also supports GOP's goal of
increasing community participation as outlined in the NCS. These strategies
seek to link production with resource conservation and support the active
involvement of the local communities in project planning, identification and
implementation. A major emphasis is placed on income generating activities
through group activities and pooling of financial resources through group
effort, thereby enabling the community to take on increasing responsibility
for introducing sustainable resource management practices. The major elements
of the strategy supported through Bank operations are also aimed at
reorienting public investment priorities to focus on improved efficiency of



- 9 -
resource use and a policy environment to foster sustainable resource
management.
Bank Group Lending
2.26      The Bank Groups operations include:
(a)  Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) and Drainage
projects to control waterlogging and salinity;
(b)  projects to improve and rehabilitate the deteriorated irrigation
system;
(c)  projects to improve water use in watercourse commands and on farms;
and
(d) agricultural extension and research, credit, seeds and
environmental protection and conservation projects.
2.27      Bank group financing for related projects during the Seventh Plan
period included the following operations: Agricultural Extension IV Project
(Cr. 1762-PAK), Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-
PAK), National Oilseeds Development Project (Cr. 1936-PAK/Ln. 2973-PAK), Flood
Restoration Project (Cr. 2003-PAK), Private Tubewell Project (Cr. 2004-PAK),
Agriculture Credit Project (Cr. 2153-PAK/Ln. 3226-PAK), Agricultural Research
Project (Cr. 2154-PAK), Third On-Farm Water Management Project (Cr. 2245-
PAK/Ln. 3327-PAK), Second SCARP Transition (Cr. 2257-PAK), Fordwah Eastern
Sadiqia Irrigation and Drainage Project (Cr. 2410-PAK), and the Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project (Cr. 2383-PAK).
Related Proiects and Lessons Learned
2.28      The Bank has undertaken several recent evaluations of rural
development projects, including projects in the hill areas of the Himalayan
range. In the broader evaluations of rural development projects, the Bank has
paid particular attention to the causes for poor project performance. Many
past projects have been too ambitious and complex, required exceptional
leadership to succeed and could not be supported on a sustainable basis.
Independent project management units were set up with facilities which are of
a higher standard or intensity than in the rest of the economy, coordination
between government agencies was weak, appropriate TPs were not always
identified and strong government commitment to the project was lacking. In
general, however, infrastructure components of these projects were successful
and had high pay offs. A major lesson from these evaluations is that there is
a need for a holistic approach to tackling resource management issues. It
emphasizes the need for development of various forms of capital, and that
sufficient consideration is given to policy reform and institutional changes.
2.29      In AJK, the Bank was involved in the pilot HFTDP in 1974 with the
aim of establishing technically sound and economically viable methods for the
development of the hilly areas of AJK. The major objectives were to assist in
developing improved technologies in food, fodder, horticulture and tree crop
production. The OED evaluation stated that, in general, the HFTDP enabled
GOAJK to gain valuable experience in defining TPs and appropriate arrangements
for solving the multiple problems of rural development. The project was



- 10 -
successful in developing TPs for maize and fodder production and hillside
plantations, extend the area under quality apples and sustain the supply of
vegetable seeds. HFTDP established a pattern for forest plantation on private
and public land with an element of management. Notwithstanding its overall
success, the major emphasis in the project was to increase productivity
(output per unit of land) rather than correct policies and programs to ensure
better management of resources.
2.30      The lessons learned guided the planning and formulation of the
IHFDP which was introduced in 1984. The project objective was to arrest
resource degradation and improve the welfare of the people. The draft
evaluation report of the IHFDP states that technologies developed in the pilot
program for maize, fodder and fuelwood have been accepted by farmers;
experience gained in developing institutional arrangements for project
management were successfully applied; and policy measures such as cost sharing
and privatization of input distribution were instituted and the hill
management strategy which is an outcome of the pilot program was the central
theme of the follow up project.  The evaluation report states that in terms of
the hill management strategy, the project has met the objectives of increasing
production of food, fodder and fuelwood from farm and wastelands; and
development of land use plans for different uses.  However, the project failed
in its objective of improving the utilization of the upper watersheds
including natural forests and pastures. This is to be addressed in the
proposed project.
2.31      Lessons learned from IHFDP were that successful implementation is
facilitated by non-bureaucratic management and proximity to the main center of
decision making; the existence of a core team of technical and managerial
staff; the availability of appropriate TPs before the start of the project;
that local community involvement is necessary in the planning and
implementation of projects; that planting of trees by government on communal
land requires clear legal agreement with beneficiaries; that there is a need
for better TPs for upper watersheds, including natural forests and rangelands;
and that project design should clearly distinguish between activities where
the market mechanism could bring about an efficient allocation of resources
and where it cannot do so because of market failures or externalities. The
report also states that road improvement designs should incorporate features
and mechanical structures which minimize environmental damage.
2.32      The second OED evaluation of AKRSP emphasizes the need to give
greater emphasis and resources to identification, testing and demonstration of
new technology; improving animal nutrition and the coverage and effectiveness
of vaccines, increased research into new fodder plant species for production
around villages and multi purpose trees for agro-forestry. These are being
pursued under the proposed project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.33      The current roles and functions of key institutions responsible for
resource management need to be realigned to meet re-defined objectives. Past
government's efforts to restructure these institutions have not been
successful. Through this project, IDA would assist AJK in restructuring of
key institutions and reorienting of programs and policies: restructuring with
emphasis on core services of technology dissemination and working with
communities; introducing policy changes aimed at a phased elimination of



- 11 -
subsidies; and transferring public sector activities to the private sector.
IDA would also support the introduction of hitherto untried environmentally
sound and sustainable resource management programs. Moreover, IDA would
support AJK in testing, on a pilot basis, programs whereby communities would
take management and financial responsibility for planning and implementation
of activities covering resource management. IDA is well placed in
coordinating the efforts of donors involved in AJK, working in close
collaboration with AKRSP.
2.34      This natural resource and poverty project complements Bank
assistance elsewhere in Pakistan in resource management and small farmer
productivity. Other assistance in natural resource management includes a
natural resource management and poverty alleviation project under preparation
for Balochistan. At the national level, there is the FY92 Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project.
MI. THE PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
3.1       The main objective of this five year project is to provide for the
sustainable and economically efficient use of land resources in one of the
country's poorest and environmentally vulnerable areas through: (a) improving
the policy framework within AJK (including the respective roles of the public
and private sector) that influences the use and conservation of land
resources; (b) restructuring and strengthening the main institutions that help
manage and protect AJK's land resources; and (c) testing, on a pilot basis,
programs whereby communities take management and financial responsibility for
planning and implementation of activities for sustainable resource management.
Summary Description
3.2       The project would include the following:
(a) Policy Reforms. The input production and distribution activities
carried out by DOA, DOAH, and DOF would be phased out through a
program for transfer of activities and staff re-deployed in core
areas of technology dissemination to farmers. Associated with the
transfer is a program for the phased elimination of subsidies;
(b) Institutional restructuring of and sup0ort for DOA. DOAH. and DOF.
Unsuccessful attempts have been made since 1974 to restructure
these agencies. The proposal for restructuring was put forward by
Government and the request is being refined to undertake cost
effective institutional development to carry out the redefined
objectives by drawing on the experience from other agencies. There
is a strong government commitment to and ownership of the program.
The approach is to set fairly tight limits on increases in public
sector staff and the effect of these measures would be an overall
net reduction in staff in the public sector. The process of
restructuring would be implemented and monitored with the
assistance of technical staff from Overseas Development



- 12 -
Administration and/or United Nations Volunteers to be located in
AJK and technical support from the Pakistan Privatization
Commission and AKRSP. DOA would be reorganized into two
directorates: extension and training, and technical support and a
planning and economic services wing. The major area of emphasis of
the restructured DOA is on core support services of technology
dissemination, including working with communities. The production
and input distribution functions would be handed over to the
private sector and existing staff in these activities would be
redeployed in the core activities. The Planning and Economic
Services would be expanded. The field extension service would be
strengthened and additional research support provided. The
proposed organization is in Chart IV. DOAH would be restructured
along functional lines, one to cover extension, research and
development and the other, animal health. ReseArch capability
would be enhanced. The proposed organizational chart is given in
Chart V. DOF would be strengthened with the creation of a Social
Forestry Wing (SFW). The DOF would be supported in its efforts to
assist communities with reforestation and soil conservation
programs and would draw on the expertise available in the SFW. The
proposed organization is in Chart VI. The P&DD of AJK would also
be strengthened by additional staff to assist in project
formulation, monitoring and evaluation of resource management and
conservation programs. A Privatization and Reorganization Unit
(PRU), would also be temporarily established under P&DD, but
without permanent status and with a built-in sunset clause. The
Land Use Planning Unit would be moved from DOF to P&DD and
strengthened to undertake a more central and expanded work program.
The proposed organization of P&DD is in Chart VII. The PWD would
be provided limited technical staff training for car;ying out the
road improvement program.
(c) Basic Technical Services. These activities relate primarily to
root stock propagation, foundation seed production, agricultural
extension and adaptive research, animal health aid communal
forestry. These activities would support the institutional
restructuring as they provide the basis for several of the proposed
core activities of initiation, demonstration and promotion of
sustainable land management techniques, including proven,
profitable TPs, adaptive research and extension for wider
application of TPs and developing new techniques. These -
activities are based on the lessons from the previous Bank assisted
projects;
(d)  Pilot oroFrams in which farmers would take full responsibility for
the planning, execution and financial management of the programs of
communal lands. The pilot programs would be in five areas (sub-
watersheds) already agreed to with GOAJK and the communities. A
Social Mobilization Unit (SMU) would be set up to assist
communities in group formation. The Unit would coordinate closely
with the SFW. SMU would also assist the Integrated Pest Management
Unit of DOA to mobilize women into mutually beneficial groups; and
(e)  Rural road improvement to support the economic viability of the
pilot schemes.



- 13 -
Detailed Features
A. Policy Actions
3.3       Production and distribution activities would be eliminated under a
phased program. The production activities to be transferred to the private
sector are seed potato, fruit tree and forest tree seedlings and vegetable
seeds. In addition, field crop seed distribution (wheat, maize and oats) and
fertilizer distribution as well as poultry vaccination would also be
transferred. Input subsidies which apply to all the above would also be
eliminated under a phased program. Agreement has been reached at negotiations
that GOAJK would implement the restructuring plan, including the program for
the phased elimination of subsidies on inputs, phased transfer of the
production input and distribution activities currently undertaken by the DOA
and the re-deployment of staff. Details of the time phased program for
transfer, subsidy removal and staff redeployment as agreed at negotiations are
in Table 3.1.  GOP/GOAJK agreed at neqotiations to implement the following:
(a) the reduction of subsidies as follows: (i) on notato seed, by 20%
in each of the years beginning July 1. 1994, July 1. 1995 and JulY
1, 1996; (ii) on vegetable seed. by 15% in each of the years
beginning July 1, 1994, July 1, 1995. July 1. 1996 and July 1997;
(iii) on fruit seedling, by 15% in each of the years beginning July
1, 1994 and July 1. 1995; (iv) on bare root forest seedling. by 10%
in each of the years beginning July 1. 1994 and July 1. 1995, and
by 20% in each of the years beginning July 1. 1996, July 1, 1997
and July 1, 1998; and (v) on container forest seedling, by 15% in
the year beginning July 1. 1994. and by 20% in each of the years
beginning July 1, 1995. July 1, 1996. July 1, 1997 and July 1,
1998;
(b)  the transfer of production and distribution activities to the
private sector as follows: (i) in resPect of one potato seed farm
in each of the years beginning July 1, 1994 and July 1. 1996;
(ii) in respect of two vegetable seed farms in each of the years
beginning July 1. 1994. July 1. 1995 and July 1. 1996, and one such
farm in the year beginning July 1. 1997; (iii) in respect of five
fruit seedling farms in each of the Years beginning July 1. 1995
and July 1. 1996, and in respect of four such farms in each of the
years beginning July 1, 1997 and July 1. 1998; (iv) in respect of
11 ha of land producing forest seedlings, in the Year beginning
July 1. 1995. 16 ha of such land in the year beginning July 1,
1996, 26 ha of such land in the year beginning July 1. 1997, and 16
ha of such land in the year beginning July 1, 1998; and (v) in
respect of thirty-one fertilizer and seed stores in the year
beginning July 1. 1995: and
(c)  redeplovment of about 290 staff of DOA, DOAH, and DOF released as a
result of the transfer of input production and distribution
activities under (b) above for the Durioses of the Proiect as
follows: (i) about 145 such staff in the year beginning July 1.
1995; (ii) about 70 such staff in the year beginning July 1, 1996;
(iii) and the remaining such staff in the year beginning JulY 1.
1997.



Table 3.1: Time-bound Phasing of Transfer of Activities, Staff Redeployment, and Removal of Subsidies
Activity                         PYI                      PY2                     PY3                     PY4                     PY5
Potato Seed Production
Locations                     Neelum Valley                                    Sudhan Gali
Staff redeployment,Nos.       2                                                 10
Subsidy Reduction, X          20                       20                      20
Vegetable Seed Production                                                                                                             Production staff of
Locations                     Gujjarbandi, Shahkot   Khari Sharif, Hajira   Bagh, Nar (Kotli)          Jalalabad                3 basic seed farms
Staff redeployment,Nos.       10                       17                       15                     13                       13 of 53
Subsidy Reduction, X          15                       15                       15                     15
Fruit SeedLing Production
Locations                                              Serai, Bagh, Kahuta,   Ganchattar, Lipa,        Harama, Chamyati,        Athmaqam, Hajira,
Pallandri, Mandi        Chikar, BaLdomas,       Mang, Heer              Shah Mandi
Abbaspur
Staff redeployment, Nos.       -                       46                      35                      43                       14
Subsidy Reduction, X          15                       15                                                                                             l
Retain rootstock nurseries:
Chattarklas, Devi Gali,
RawaLakot,  LangLa; but redeploy
production staff                                                                      3                       4                       9
Forest Seedling Production
Area, Ha                                               11                       16                     26                       16                    |-
Staff redepLoyment, Nos.       -                        2                       3                       3                        2                               Z w
Subsidy Reduction, X                                                                                                                                              I
Bare root seedLing         10                       10                      20                      20                       20
Container seedling         15                       20                      20                      20                       20
Fertilizer/Seed Distribution
Stores, Nos.                  Prepare                  31; make available
privatization plan;    to private sector
solicit
Staff redeployment, Nos.       interest/bids           86
Subsidy Reduction, X           -                       ELiminate subsidy
Remote sale points            5% as service charge   Agree with private
Finalize proposal to   sector on
compensate              compensation mode
transportation cost
Poultry Vaccination                                                                                           Continue                Continue
Training of private           Commence training        Continue training       Continue training       privatization            privatization
vaccinators                                                                                            process                  process
Cost recovery                 Nil                      Nil; set up             Recover vaccine
revolving fLunds to     cost
recuperate vaccine
cost__                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _



- 1 
B. Institutional Strengthening
(a) Department of Agriculture (Base Cost: US$ 2.03 million)
3.4       DOA would be reorganized into three directorates: extension and
training, technical support, and planning and economic services. The major
emphasis in the restructured DOA would be technology dissemination which would
be backed up by technical and research support. Chart IV presents the
reorganized structure of DOA. The planning and economic services under the
Secretary, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry would also be strengthened. This
unit would service both DOA and DOAH. Project support includes strengthening
of the planning services include planning, monitoring and evaluation.
Supporting technical staff as well as office equipment, vehicles and operating
costs is also provided under the project.
3.5       The extension and training activities, especially field activities
would be strengthened by additional staff through redeployment. New extension
centers would also be set up in areas not presently served by extension staff.
There would be no staff increment and these centers would be manned through
re-deployment of staff. Incremental operating funds by way of travelling
allowances and vehicle operating costs as well as office equipment would also
be provided under the project. Specialized training for the re-deployed staff
to match their skills for the new initiatives (mass awareness, community
participation, soil conservation, and farm forestry) would be provided under
the project. Technical assistance would be provided to evolve extension
methodologies responsive to the needs of given areas with a view to optimizing
field staff input and at the same time attaining greater coverage through
contact group farmers and community participatory approaches.
3.6       With the organizational and institutional restructuring as
envisaged under the project, a fundamental aim would be that the extension
messages are delivered effectively to the diverse clientele in the project
areas. Refinements to the existing extension system which has been modified
from the principles of the Training and Visits system would be introduced.
Alternative methods of extension, best suited to the needs of the prevailing
farming systems, would be developed and put into practice. Special attention
would be given to community participatory techniques so as to promote a sense
of (a) ownership among the beneficiaries (as opposed to the traditional
thinking that Government must provide inputs and other services through heavy
subsidization programs, and that the extension services are taken for
granted); (b) accountability of the system; and (c) responsiveness within the
system to the needs of the farmers for appropriate technology and knowledge.
3.7       Continuous training of extension staff, at the field level, would
be a key feature of the project to strengthen and update skills and knowledge
of front line extension workers. Six new small training centers, equipped
with training aids and audio-visual equipment (with a capacity for training
20-30 trainees) would be added to the four existing centers. At present,
untrained Field Assistants (FAs) are recruited and then sent on training for a
two year diploma at the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI). This results
in vacant positions in DOA and lower quality inductees. At neaotiations.
agreement was reached with GOP/GOAJK that by SeDtember 30. 1996. the ATI
diploma would be a vrereauisite for recruitment to FAs positions in DOA. The



- 16 -
project would at the outset, provide 20 fellowships to prospective ATI
students drawn from AJK for the FA Diploma Course through open competition.
Those students who successfully complete the diploma would be considered for
recruitment on the basis of merit.
3.8       Project support would be provided for reformulation of the
production oriented TPs, through increased focus on adaptive and on-farm
research encompassing appropriate soil conservation practices and cost
effective farm management techniques (Annex I). The existing group of five
core Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would be strengthened by adding a SMS
(soil conservation) and SMS (community participation) and support staff.
Project support would also be provided for institutional linkages and formal
review mechanisms to ensure regular specialized sub-sectoral inputs into the
programming, planning and analysis of adaptive research. Provision is also
made for this group to undertake on-farm trials and testing programs
throughout AJK. The Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) has
already established an Agricultural Economics Research Unit (AERU) which would
also be involved in reviews and would also be contracted to undertake
diagnostic studies. Overseas training for the SMS group in their respective
fields of specialization and technical assistance for continued refinement of
the Training and Adaptive Research Unit's (TARU) program would be provided
under the project.
3.9       Introduction of a farming systems perspective into the planning and
programming process of the adaptive research program would be the main theme
of institutional capability building. The project would promote a problem
solving approach fundamentally oriented towards farmers and farmer
participation mechanisms for collaboration in planning, execution of trials,
and evaluation of alternative technologies.
3.10      To provide for low cost soil conservation practices at the farm
level, an on-farm soil conservation demonstration program has been built into
the project. Demonstrations would be conducted throughout AJK using three
types of soil conservation practices. In-service training courses for the
entire extension service specifically directed at soil conservation and
resource management aspects have been included in the project.
3.11      Seed Ouality Control.  As the production and distribution of all
seeds, particularly those of vegetable and field crops, would be completely
privatized in a phased manner, DOA is provided with a limited and small seed
testing facility. A vehicle, operating costs, and incremental staff (through
re-deployment) would be provided. Technical assistance and pre-service as
well as refresher training would be arranged from the Federal Seed
Certification Department
3.12      Mass Community Awareness xrogram.  Mass community awareness program
based on a well defined media dissemination strategy and availing of all
existing channels of mass communication would be introduced to strengthen the
extension effort. The program provides for the deployment of media and
publication staff in a cell located within the TARU, provision of local
technical assistance from professional media experts, production of
audio/video and print materials (documentaries, cassettes, posters, brochures
and leaflets) and creation of a small in house reproduction/editing facility.
Media campaigns on natural resource management, soil conservation, community
participation, awareness of resource degradation, and environmental hazards of



- 17 -
modern farm inputs would receive special focus under the program. The program
would cater to reaching all groups in the community, not only farmers.
(b) Department of Animal Husbandry (Base Cost: US$ 2.56 million)
3.13      DOAH would be restructured along functional lines, under two
directorates. The first directorate would cover all animal health. The other
under the Livestock Coordinator (who would be redesignated as Director) would
cover livestock extension, research and development. The proposed structure
is in Chart V.
3.14      Limited research staff would be inducted to the Livestock
,Development Center (LDC) to conduct fodder research, breed improvement and
nutrition trials. LDC has already taken possession of additional land
adjacent to it for this purpose. An SMS would be attached to the LDC to
provide technical support to the research activities, prepare technical
extension packages to ensure sustainable resource use and assist in training
of Stock Assistants (SAs), the FAs and the female mobile teams in poultry
vaccinations both at the LDC and the ATI. The research staff would be
provided with equipment and supplies for research experiments and trials.
Vehicles and operating costs would be provided to the research teams. A
training room, equipment and training aids would be provided at the LDC for
the training programs and for the courses for livestock staff and women
vaccinators. Proposed refresher training with an emphasis on sustainable
resource management strategies would be organized for SAs and Livestock
Supervisors manning the veterinary dispensaries.
3.15      In the field of animal health, project activities are directed at
,increasing the present low coverage of vaccination programs through
institutional support and extension. Efforts to increase investment in fodder
research, breed improvement and nutrition would not be meaningful without an
expanded program of disease prevention. Provision is made for the
construction of additional veterinary dispensaries, to which DOAH would re-
assign SAs from present locations where they are supernumerary or assign new
SAs on completion of their induction training. Motorcycles would be provided
to Veterinary Officers who would supervise field staff in vaccination and
extension programs and a vehicle would be made available to collect vaccines
and to distribute to district level holding and collection points.
Refrigerated vaccine holding equipment would be provided at district and union
council level facilities, and cold boxes would be repaired and reinstalled in
veterinary dispensaries. The project would provide for increased annual
vaccinations to about 401 and 15% for large and small ruminants respectively,
thereby doubling the present coverage for three major diseases afflicting
livestock in AJK. Commencing in the second year, the poultry vaccine would
achieve about 90% coverage of susceptible village flocks in the dependent
dispensary areas. A program of cost recovery of vaccines would be implemented
beginning in the second year of the project. Agreement was reached with
GOP/GOAJK at negotiations that a revolving fund would be set up in DOAH for
the deposit of vaccination fees and the purchase of subseauent vaccine
suvrlies.



- 18 -
(2) Department of Forestry (Base Cost: US$ 6.02 million)
3.16      Due to increased reforestation and soil conservation activity,
particularly on communal lands, the project provides for additional
contractual staff who would be hired for the duration of the project.
3.17      In view of the increasing importance of community participatory
approaches as is being introduced under this and other donor assisted
projects, a Social Forestry Wing would be created and attached to the Office
of the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF). This is in line with the project's
support for community based reforestation and soil conservation programs,
based on the experiences gained and lessons learned from IHFDP and AKRSP. The
Wing would be provided with a Social Forester and three support staff as well
as a vehicle, office equipment and operating costs. Technical assistance for
a social forestry expert to assist in setting up the Wing and planning its
work is also provided under the project. The proposed structure of DOF is in
Chart VI.
3.18      Provision is made under the project for community based
reforestation. Plantation costs cover the cost of seedlings, digging of pits,
restocking and 50' of restocking and protection costs. Plantations would take
the form of timber, fuelwood and pasture in different combinations. In
addition, the project would provide for soil and water conservation works
which would include gully plugging, loose stone checkdams, masonry diversion
channels, masonry silt trap dams, gabions for torrent control, planting behind
checkdams, vetiver grass hedges, contour bunding and protection walls and a
seedling distribution program. Forestry seedlings production would also be
met from the project and would initially be produced in DOF nurseries but
would progressively be produced by the private sector with DOF purchasing its
requirements.
3.19      Provision is also made for training in forestry extension and in
soil conservation techniques. The former is directed at farmers, private
nurseryman and local community leaders and the latter at Foresters and Forest
Guards. In addition, Divisional Forest Officers and Forest Rangers would
receive training of a weeks duration in forestry extension at the Pakistan
Forestry Institute. An internationally recruited specialist would be engaged
for conduct of the initial courses and draw up course material and curricula.
The project would provide support for the Forestry School to assist in
training.
3.20      The project provides for overseas training in woodlot management,
soil and water conservation and social forestry and technical assistance in
range management, extension and training, seed collection and handling and
seed orchard establishment.
C. Other Institutional Strengthening. (Base Cost: US$ 2.67 million)
3.21      Provision is also made under the project to strengthen the AJK
P&DD. A small unit of three staff would be set up within P&DD as a nucleus
for project formulation, monitoring and evaluation of resource management and
conservation programs and strategies. In addition, the unit would be
responsible for addressing environment and resource management issues as they



- 19 -
arise (Paragraph 2.6). Provision is made for this Unit to be supported by
short term consultants. The Unit would be under the Director General, P&DD.
3.22      The DOF had within its organization a Land Use Planning Unit which
was set up in 1987 under an earlier bank project (Paragraph 2.12). Under the
project, this Unit would be placed under the P&DD, and would receive support
for an expanded program of work. The Unit would be strengthened by additional
staff - a land use planner, surveyor and cartographer and supporting technical
staff. In addition, project support would include provision of technical
equipment for land use planning and mapping, office accommodation and
operational costs, including the costs of materials for printing of maps.
3.23      The project would support a PRU consisting of three senior staff
and supporting staff for implementing the privatization and restructuring
program. The Unit would also be provided with office equipment, vehicles and
operating costs as well as technical assistance to monitor progress and
annually evaluate the program.
D. Basic Technical Services (Base Cost: US$ 6.97 million)
3.24      The previous two Bank assisted projects have laid the basis for
root stock propagation, foundation seed production and development of TPs. In
addition, these projects introduced adaptive research programs, set up
agricultural training facilities, introduced animal disease control campaigns,
forestry research and training and provided the basis for community based
reforestation. All these activities provide a sound foundation and would be
built on for carrying out programs to meet the redefined objectives of these
agencies. The project provides for modest support for these ongoing
activities.
3.25      The extension system which was strengthened under IHFDP lacks
sustainability and regular training and farmer contact and demonstrations have
been considerable weakened. TARU which was set up under IHFDP consisting of
the core team of SMS's would be provided support to continue with the training
and adaptive research, including research trials and demonstrations on plant
protection, breeding and improved root stock (apple) propagation and
dissemination. The on-going training programs for extension staff under the
training and visit system introduced under IHFDP would also be supported. The
animal health programs have proved to have an impact but its continuation
through periodic follow up is necessary and the project provides for equipment
and operational funds for continuation of the on-going campaigns. The
community based forestry program, introduced under the IHFDP provided for a
degree of community participation on communal lands. Reforestation was
undertaken on 11,700 ha of communal/private land following agreements with the
communities and the project provides for follow up work on these plantations
by way of annual maintenance and protection of the reforested areas (Paragraph
2.18). Provision is also made for operational funds for forestry and soil
conservation research and training.
E. Pilot Areas (Base Cost: US$ 1.86 million)
3.26      The project would support community participatory activities in the
five pilot areas covering approximately twenty villages. The criteria used
for the selection of the pilot areas included: extent of degradation of the



- 20 -
sub-watersheds; willingness of the community members to participate and supply
labor for activities and be an active member of the Village Development
Committee (VDC), pool financial resources, and agree to bear full operational
cost of project activities. A Social Mobilization Unit comprising a
Coordinator, and three social organizers would be set up under the project to
interact with the communities and assist in group formation. One of the
social organizers would be a woman, responsible for group formation of women
and the promotion of income generating activities as part of the overall
management plan. The Unit would be provided with office equipment, farm and
other equipment and transport to enable field visits to the pilot areas. The
programs supported by the project in the pilot areas include the preparation
of development plans and establishment of village development committees,
training of community leaders and women, and introduction of programs and TPs
for community lands and for private farmers. Programs include demonstrations
and adaptive research trials, tree nurseries, reforestation, introduction of
TPs and treatments and soil conservation practices and income generating
activities and specific activities for women (Annex II). The program would
also support the reforestation of communal lands and the provision of planting
material for re-stocking and limited maintenance. All these programs are so
designed to ensure adequate and quick returns to the farmers and the community
as a whole to assist in maintaining interest and financial sustainability.
Many of the activities would be based on successful approaches adopted in
other community participatory projects and are designed to ensure sustained
participation in management of communal resources. Income generating
activities would be introduced both at the individual and community level to
ensure additional income which could provide incentives for group activities.
Soil erosion monitoring would also be undertaken in the pilot areas through
point measurements made in critical areas such as steep slopes using simple
techniques. Agreement was reached at appraisal with GOAJK that five sub-
watersheds of Bhanguin, Hular, Baluch, Chhota Gala and Sensa would form the
pilot areas.
F. Improvement to Rural Roads (Base Cost: US$ 8.44 million)
3.27      Under the project, a total of twelve roads totalling 165 km are to
be taken up for improvement. The details of the roads proposed for
improvement and the pavement design standards appear in Annex III.  All these
roads are in close proximity to the proposed five pilot areas and would offer
better access to main roads. In addition to improving these to all weather
standard, they would also be built to correct the ill planned and poorly
constructed roads to reduce soil erosion.
Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
A. Proiect Cost Summary
3.28      The Project Cost Summary by components is in Table 3.2, and Annexes
Tables 1 and 2 provide additional details and breakdown of these costs.



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
(Rs Million)                                 (US$ '000)
%     Total                                   %     Total
Foreign  Base                                 Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs   Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Restructuring and Support
Agricultural Services                                   36.0    58.4    94.3          62    12   1,394.2 2,244.4  3,628.5           62    12
Agriculture Extension & Adaptive Research                9.1    11.6    20.7          56     3      351.3   444.7    796.0          56     3
Comunity Forestry  Resource Management                141.0    15.6   156.6          10    20   5,423.6   601.0  6,024.6           10    20
Commnity Awareness & Education                           3.5      1.0     4.4        22      1      132.8    36.6    169.4          22     1
Policy, planning a Evaluation                           51.4    18.1    69.4         26      9   1,976.0   694.9  2,671.0          26      9
Subtotal Institutional Restructuring and Support          241.0   104.6   345.5          30    43   9,267.9 4,021.6 13,289.5           30    43
B. Basic Technical Services                               139.7    41.6   181.3          23    23   5,372.2 1,601.9  6,974.1           23    23       -
C. Road Improvemnt                                        179.6    40.0   219.6          19    29   6,905.9 1,538.8  8,444.7           18    28
D. Pilot Areas                                             26.3    22.1    48.4          46     6   1,011.9   850.9  1,862.8           46      6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       586.5   208.3   794.9          26   100  22,558.0 8,013.2 30,571.2           26   100
Physical Contingencies                                    55.2    21.9    77.0          28    10   2,121.6   841.4  2,963.0           28    10
Price Contingencies                                      141.3    44.0   185.3         24    23   1,893.8   577.2  2,471.0            23     8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        783.0   274.2 1,057.2          26   133  26,573.4 9,431.8 36,005.2           26   118



- 22 -
3.29      The project costs are estimated at Rs 1,057.2 million (US$ 36.0
million) equivalent (inclusive of contingencies, local taxes and duties) of
which the foreign exchange component is Rs 274.2 million (US$ 9.4 million)
Project costs are expressed in January 1993 prices and include duties and
taxes estimated at Rs 159.4 million or US$ 5.4 million. The base costs are
derived from detailed cost schedules applied for current federal and other
government agency operations, including agricultural extension, reforestation,
animal health improvement, construction contracts, and vehicle and equipment
purchases. Construction cost estimates are based on current schedule of
rates. Consultant services are based on recent contracts for similar services
in Pakistan. The cost estimates provide for physical contingencies of 12% for
civil works and 10% for machinery, equipment and materials, technical
assistance and training. Price contingencies are estimated at Rs 185.3
million and are based on projected domestic and foreign inflation rates as
shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 Projected Domestic and Foreign Inflation Rates
FY                   International              Domestic
93                       4.0                      12.0
94                       2.8                        9.5
95                       2.3                       6.0
96                       3.1                       6.0
97                       3.5                       6.0
98                       3.5                       6.0
B. Financing
3.30      Table 3.4 shows the proposed project financing plan.  The GOAJK,
the local community farmers and households would jointly finance the project.
IDA would provide credit of SDR 20.4 million (US$ 28.8 million), the community
and farmers the equivalent of US$ 1.5 million and GOAJK the remaining US$ 5.7
million equivalent. IDA would finance 80.0% of project costs, including 100%
of foreign exchange costs and 52% of local costs. Excluding duties and taxes,
and community farmers and households contributions, IDA would finance 98% of
project costs. Community and farmers, through their own labor would finance a
portion of works on communal lands and reforestation. GOAJK would provide a
part of the finances to the implementing agencies out of annual budgetary
allocations. Funds for project expenditures would flow from the Ministry of
Finance directly to GOAJK as development funds. Agreement was reached with
GOP/GOAJK at negotiations that the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) would apnrove the proi6ct's Planning Commission Form
No. 1 (PC-1) and sanction Proiect exvenditure Prior to credit effectiveness.



- 23 -
Table 3.4 Financina Plan
(US$ Million)
IDA          Government         Community
Institutional
Strengthening &                     12.3            2.3                0.8
Support Services
Basic Technical Services             6.5            1.3                0.3
Road Improvement                     8.2            2.0                   -
Pilot Areas                         1.8             0.1                0.4
TOTAL                               28.8            5.7                1.5
Percent                               80             16                  4
Procurement
3.31      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.5 and are
described in more detail in the paragraphs that follow:
Table 3.5 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)I/
Procurement Element   ICB             LCB       Othera'      NIF1/      Total
Civil works              -           11.6          -          0.44/      12.0
(9.3)                              (9.3)
Field Works              -             -          5.7         1.43/      7.1
(5.3)                  (5.3)
Vehicles                2.1            -           -           -         2.1
(1.3)                                            (1.3)
Equipment and           1.2            -          2.4          -         3.6
materials             (0.9)                     (1.9)                  (2.8)
Technical Assistance    -              -          4.2          -         4.2
(4.0)        -         (4.0)
Training and studies    -              -          0.9          -         0.9
(0.9)        -         (0.9)
Incremental staff and  -               -          6.1                    6.1
operating costs                                 (5.2)                  (5.2)
3.3          11.6        19.3         1.8        36.0
(2.2)         (9.3)      (17.3)                  (28.8)
1/ Includes taxes, duties, and contingencies.  Figures in parenthesis are the
respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
2/ Includes force account,international and local shopping, consultant
services, training and project management expenditures.
3/ Not IDA financed.
4/ Purchase of land.
5/ Contribution by community.



- 24 -
3.32      Civil Works (USS 11.7 million).  Civil works would include
construction of buildings, such as extension centers and veterinary
dispensaries and improvement of small sections of rural roads, totalling about
165 km. All these works are in remote rural areas, are small and scattered,
and spread over the five-year period of execution. These works would not be
of interest to foreign contractors and would be packaged into contracts and
follow local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.33      Field Works (US$ 6.8 million).  Minor works relating to tree
planting, torrent correction, watershed management and other soil conservation
works are small and scattered and are located in remote areas throughout AJK.
These works also involve labor provided by beneficiaries and would not attract
bidders. Works not exceeding US$ 50,000 per package and up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 5.7 million equivalent would be undertaken by force account.
Works on communal lands would be undertaken jointly by the government and the
community, with the community contributing their own labor for selected
activities as their contribution. The complementary government activities
would be undertaken by force account.
3.34      Vehicles and Eauipment and Materials (USS 5.6 million).  Vehicles,
equipment and materials would be packaged into contracts of at least US$
50,000 equivalent or more and procured following IDA international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures and using IDA standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods. Domestic preference limited to 15% of the cif bid price
or the actual customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is
lower, would be granted to goods manufactured locally in the evaluation of
bids. GOP confirmed at negotiations that an application has already been made
for issue of a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) allowing for the vehicle imports
amounting to US$ 2.1 million. GOP agreed at negotiations that the implementing
agencies would use ICB bidding documents based on the Bank's sample bidding
documents for goods. Equipment, goods and materials such as fencing, farm
equipment and veterinary supplies needed at different places and valued at
less than US $50,000 equivalent for each contract, could be locally and
internationally procured through shopping on the basis of comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for procurement.  The total value of goods purchased
through shopping would be limited to an aggregate of US$ 2.4 million.
3.35      Consultant Services. Training and Studies (USS 5.7 million).
Consultant services in an amount of US$ 4.8 million  financed from the
proceeds of the credit would be selected and employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
the use of consultants. Prior IDA review of consultant contracts above US$
50,000 would be required. Training services totalling US$ 0.9 million would
be made on the basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered by
governmental or private institutions according to government administration
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.36      Incremental ODerating Costs (USS 5.8 million).  Project
expenditures on incremental operating costs, including staff salaries and
allowances, operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and civil works
would follow normal government practices.



- 25 -
3.37       Each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or
more would be subject to prior IDA review. However, in practice, the first
three bidding documents in excess of US$ 50,000 for each year would be subject
to prior review by IDA before the bidders are invited to bid. If standard
bidding documents and IDA procedures are consistently used , prior reviews
will be carried out only on contracts in excess of US$ 200,000 in conformity
with the guidelines. This would cover about 10% of the value of works and of
the goods. Bank staff would undertake a selective post review of works on a
random basis on contracts for all civil works and for goods below US$ 50,000
equivalent with a sample of one in every ten contracts. All procurement would
be undertaken by the office of the Project Director attached to the Secretary,
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. This office has sufficient experience in
procurement as a result of two previous Bank projects. The procurement
implementation schedule is in Annex VI.
Disbursements
3.38      The credit would be disbursed over a period of six years which is
inclusive of the time allowed for disbursement after credit closing on
12.31.99. This is less than the length of the standard disbursement profile
for all Pakistan agricultural projects. The experience gained by the staff of
DOAH in dealing with implementation and procurement matters under two Bank
projects since 1978 is the reason for the shorter disbursement period. IDA
would disburse funds at the following rates:
Cateaory                             Percent to be financed
Civil works, field works                        80% of expenditures
and forestry planting
Foreign and local training,                     100% of expenditures
consultancies and studies
Vehicles, equipment and materials               100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of ex-factory prices of
locally manufactured items;
70% of local costs for
other items purchased locally
Incremental staff and                           100% until an amount equivalent
Operating Cost                                  to SDR 1.7 million; 60%
thereafter until an amount
equivalent to SDR 2.8 million;
and 30% thereafter.
3.39      IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure for
civil works: (a) civil works below US$ 200,000; (b) vehicles, equipment and
materials below US$ 50,000; and (c) all consulting firms of less than US$
50,000 and all field work, forestry planting and incremental staff and
operating costs. All other contracts including those for foreign training and



- 26 -
individual consultants would be fully documented. Implementing units should
have available all supporting documentation for these items of expenditure for
review by IDA. Disbursement applications for all other items should be fully
documented. The estimated schedule of disbursements appear in Annex IV.
3.40      To facilitate timely implementation of activities, a special
account would be established at the National Bank of Pakistan to be operated
by Secretary, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. This account would cover all
expenditures, both local and foreign of less than US$ 160,000 (10% of the
initial deposit). All other expenditures above this amount could be submitted
directly to IDA for payment. Replenishment applications would be made on a
monthly basis or whenever the available balance in the account dropped below
50%, whichever occurred first.
Retroactive Financing
3.41      In expedite project start up, IDA would retroactively finance
project costs incurred after April 1, 1993 up to a limit of SDR 1.5 million,
provided IDA procurement procedures and guidelines were followed. These
expenditures would include consultant services for SMU, PRU, designs of road
improvements, initial establishment of nurseries, and other preparatory
activities.
Accounts and Audit
3.42      Implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for project
activities. At neaotiations, agreement was reached with GOP/GOAJK that: (a)
implementing agencies would maintain separate proiect accounts which
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, would audit annually: (b) have their
auditors issue separate oDinions on project accounts, disbursement from the
special account, and SOEs and supporting documents used as a basis for
disbursements from the credit; and (c) submit an audit report of prolect
accounts to IDA within nine months of the fiscal year's end.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation
4.1       The project is to be implemented by DOA, DOAH, DOF and PWD.  The
Secretary, DOA & DOAH would have overall responsibility for the project. To
assist the Secretary, in carrying out these tasks, the project provides for a
senior officer to be appointed as Project Director, and be responsible to the
Secretary for all matters relating to the project. Coordination of project
activities would be provided through the AJK P&DD which would be strengthened
under the project. A SMU would be set up under the Secretary, Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry to assist with community participatory approaches while PWD
would be strengthened to carry out the expanded road improvement program.
These departments already have staff experienced in the implementation of the
HFTDP and the IHFDP, the latter which closed on March 31, 1992. Technical



- 27 -
assistance would enhance the capacity of the implementing agencies to
implement the project as adequate provision is made under the project for
locally and internationally recruited technical personnel.
4.2       PWD.  The preparation of designs, surveys and bill of quantities
would be carried out by consulting engineers. An Executive Engineer from PWD
who would be assigned to the project would have overall responsibility for
prequalification of contractors, preparation of tender documents, invitation
of bids, supervision of the work by contractors and authorizing payments on
completion of work. The Executive Engineer would be assisted by two sub-
engineers. The completed work would be handed over to the PWD for subsequent
maintenance.
Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reform
4.3       Transfer of Activities. To ensure a smooth phasing out of public
sector activities, subsidy removal and staff redeployment, GOAJK has already
established a high level Committee consisting of the Additional Chief
Secretary (Development), P&DD, Secretaries of Finance, Agriculture and Animal
Husbandry, and DOF to formulate policies and plans required for
implementation. Implementation would be undertaken by a Privatization and
Reorganization Unit, located in P&DD and responsible to the Additional Chief
Secretary,(Development). This Unit, when established, would also service this
Committee. The Unit would be staffed with qualified and experienced officers,
including an Establishments Officer responsible for detailing the staff re-
deployment program, the skills retraining requirements and preparation of
revised duty statements. A technical assistance input is also provided to
enable review and evaluation of the progress of the institutional
restructuring and privatization program on an annual basis. The Unit would
initiate action on the different measures necessary for the successful
execution of the program for transfer of activities and restructuring program.
4.4       DOA.  DOA, headed by the Director General, Agriculture (DGA) would
be responsible for implementing the project in the Department. The DGA would
also be responsible for implementing the phased program for withdrawal of
subsidy on inputs. The DGA would coordinate closely with the PRU and agree on
annual production targets on inputs by DOA and the private sector and make
arrangements for the gradual transition. The DGA would also take actions for
the phased increase in the price of inputs.
4.5       The two Directorates of Extension, Training and Adaptive Research
(ETAR) and Research and Technical Services (RTS), under the overall
operational responsibility of the DGA, would formulate an extension strategy
which meets the challenges of sustainable agricultural development. The core
functions of developing appropriate TPs, training the extension agents and
community groups, and disseminating extension messages to farmers would be
handled by the ETAR Directorate.
4.6       The main functions of the RTS Directorate would be to act as a
resource group for: (a) providing the required technical services to the
public and private sectors; (b) maintaining the basic and foundation seed
production facilities as well as horticultural root stock; (c) developing and



- 28 -
testing techniques of integrated pest management as applicable to the AJK
environments; (d) assisting the government in developing the regulatory
framework for ensuring the quality of key farm inputs supplied by the private
sector (seed testing and certification, varietal uniformity, purity of
seedlings, fertilizers and pesticides); and (e) acquiring the basic and
applied agricultural production technologies, as they evolve, from the
national and international agricultural research systems and building them the
on-farm trials program of ETAR.
4.7       For the field extension operations, Director, ETAR would ensure the
implementation of extension strategy through direct line district level
extension organization. The district extension network would be supported by
the training, adaptive research, and mass awareness units under the ETAR.
Each district would have a Deputy Director, Extension (DDE) who would be
responsible for the deployment and supervision of extension agents, or the
FAs, through the area extension supervisors, or the Agricultural Officers
(AOs). In addition to the line functions, DDEs would be responsible for the
administrative supervision of the Assistant Horticultural Officers, AOs, and
Research Officers who would technically be a part of the RTS group, or the SMS
group of the ETAR.
4.8       The DDEs would be the chief implementers of the extension strategy
based on the specific agro ecological zones falling within the extension
district. The strategy, to be devised from the overall AJK strategy, would
provide the guiding principles on the modes of message dissemination, farmers
group organizations, the role and extent of media coverage, and the role and
extent of farmers training. For the formulation and/or adaptation of the
extension strategy, DGA would ensure participation of all working groups
within DOA, and other national institutions.
4.9       The TARU, supervised by the Deputy Director, would be the technical
arm of ETAR. TARU would draw heavily on RTS, but would have its independent
work program in several disciplines: adaptive research and on-farm testing of
appropriate technologies; technical message formulation; regular training of
extension agents; mass communication and implementation of media strategy; and
training of trainers at district level. All TARU staff would be based at
Garhi Dopatta. Three more disciplines would be added to the existing SMS
group: SMS (Soil Conservation and Resource Management), SMS (Community
Participation) and SMS (media/mass communication). The former two SMSs would
chiefly work with the SMU and would provide intensive support to the pilot
impact areas while the latter would provide leadership to the
Media/Information Cell of the DOA, in addition to handling the media and mass
awareness campaigns.
4.10      The project provides for adequate mobility and operating funds for
the extension service to be more proactive. All DDA/SMS level posts would be
provided with four wheel drive vehicles; all AOs with motor cycles; all RTs
section chiefs with vehicles; and all village extension agents would be given
travel and daily allowances.
4.11      DOAH.  DOAH through its Director General would be responsible for
the implementation of activities relating to livestock support services. The



- 29 -
Director General would be responsible for the phased program of privatization
of the vaccination services and ensure coordination between training of
community and farm groups in vaccination methods and re-deployment of staff.
The Director General would ensure that the Livestock Coordinator who is head
of the LDC (and also Director) would carry out the fodder research and animal
nutrition programs under the project. LDC would be the focal point of the
improved extension and training. Applied research and training at the field
level would be supervised and directed by the Livestock Coordinator and the
SMS (Livestock). The Director General would also be responsible for the
improved program of animal health services from department hospitals and
dispensaries. The Director, Animal Health would be responsible for the field
veterinary services and the immunization campaigns as well as the network of
dispensaries throughout AJK.
4.12      DOF.  DOF through the CCF would be responsible for implementation
of all forestry related activities under the project. These would include
nursery establishment, reforestation, pasture management, seedling
distribution, soil conservation works, extension and training. The
reforestation, soil conservation and pasture management activities would be
carried out on communal and private lands throughout AJK, including the pilot
areas. The CCF would be assisted by a team of professional staff consisting
of a Conservator of Forests and two Divisional Forest Officers, and technical
and support staff. A Social Forestry Wing, comprising a Social Forester and
support staff would be attached to the CCF. This Wing would collect,
independently and through the technical assistance provided to it under he
project, information on and interact with on going social forestry projects
within Pakistan and in the region, and advise the CCF on possible
participatory approaches. To foster community participation of the in
carrying out nursery establishment, reforestation and soil conservation works
the CCF would assist in training of community members in social forestry and
arrange local study tours to other social forestry projects. A Soil
Conservation Wing, comprising a Soil Conservation Engineer and support staff
would advise on the design and specifications of soil conservation structures
and ensure that the works are carried out according to specifications.
4.13      The CCF  would coordinate with the Privatization and Reorganization
Unit on the tree seedling program in achieving the objective of a gradual
transfer to the private sector. The CCF would be responsible for the training
of private nurseryman and women's groups. The CCF would also introduce a
phased program of subsidy removal on forest tree seedlings. Until the subsidy
is completely removed in the last year of the project, the Forestry Department
would purchase seedlings from private nurseryman to meet the demands of
reforestation and seedling distribution.
4.14      All field operations would be carried out through Divisional Forest
Officers (DFOs) in the Divisions in which the activity is located. The CCF
would be responsible for coordinating with the SMU that would work in drawing
up management plans with the communities. The CCF, through DOF staff would
seek out, identify and assist in areas of reforestation on communal lands, and
advise individuals and the VDC's on the technical aspects of reforestation and
participate in the formulation and implementation of management plans by the
community in the pilot areas. DOF staff would be involved in the agreements



- 30 -
specifying the cost sharing and management responsibilities on reforestation
activities outside the pilot areas.
Pilot Areas
4.15      Five pilot areas based on subwatersheds have been selected in
consultation with GOAJK authorities and the community. The approach to be
taken is participatory, seeking to actively involve the community with the
main focus on sustainability. Integrated works in forestry, range management,
agriculture, livestock and other income generating activities would be
undertaken. The selection of the five pilot areas was on the following basis:
(i) extent of degradation of the subwatersheds; and (ii) willingness of the
community to participate and supply labor for activities, be an active member
of the VDC, pool financial resources, and agree to bear the full operational
cost of project activities.
4.16      SMU and the community would draw up a detailed management plan for
each village. The SMU and technical staff from DOA, DOAH and DOF would
identify suitable TPs and assist in drawing up the management plan. The SMU
would be responsible for the formation of VDCs in the five pilot areas. The
SMU would ensure participation of the community in implementing of the plan.
Activities selected would include programs on individual farms as well for the
community. In addition, activities for women would also be incorporated into
the management plan. The plans would be flexible and be reviewed at regular
intervals. During the project period, the VDCs would be strengthened to take
over the responsibility for plantation, pasture and protection of the communal
lands. The management plans would ensure that income is generated through the
management plans starting from the initial years to ensure sustained community
participation. The VDC's would be encouraged to open a savings account for
deposit of income from the communal property. Agreement has been reached that
the community would bear the cost of planting and in addition, would bear half
the cost of protection (watch and ward) on all communal land. Under the pilot
areas the cost of protection would be borne by the community on an increasing
proportion until full costs and these would gradually be extended to other
project areas as well (See Appendix IV). The community participatory approach
adopted in the pilot areas would be closely monitored and assisted by
experienced personnel from NGO's (such as AKRSP) to evaluate its replicability
in other areas of AJK.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      MonitorinQ.  Monitoring of all project activities would be
undertaken by the monitoring and evaluation staff in the Planning and
Economics Wing of DOA. This would involve the progress of works and programs,
civil works and contracts, staffing and project finances. DOF would undertake
close monitoring of the community development activities in the pilot areas to
help decision makers obtain quick and regular feedback on implementation
progress, and to make rapid adjustments, if and when required. Because of the
grass roots nature of this component, details of the community plans and the
type of investments cannot be known before agreeing to the community plans.
This component is inherently flexible, which makes the role of monitoring far
more difficult and important. The SMU group would be required to travel



- 31 -
extensively for monitoring and quarterly reporting is required for the first
two years of the project.
4.18      Reporting.  The Project Director, under the Secretary, Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry would coordinate the preparation of annual work plans and
budgets and monitor project activities and prepare quarterly reports of
project activity describing the current status, deviations, if any, and
problems encountered during the quarter. GOAJK would also be requested to
provide an annual progress report and to participate in the annual Bank-
Government review of project implementation to enable undertaking a review of
resource requirements and take appropriate actions as necessary to ensure that
the project objectives could be met. The Secretary, Agriculture and Animal
Husbandry and staff of the Planning and Economic Services would also be
required to prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) six months prior to
project closing date summarizing the overall project performance in the
context of its objectives and targets.
4.19      Proiect Launch Workshop.  A Project Launch Workshop would be held
for staff, community leaders, and NGOs associated with the project, soon after
the project agreements have been signed to familiarize project staff with
project objectives, components, and other administrative aspects of project
implementation, including procurement.
4.20      Mid-Term Review.  A mid-term review of the project would be
conducted during the third year of project implementation and not later than
three years from date of project effectiveness. The mid-term review would be
carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank and the terms of reference
for the review would be drawn up by the Office of the Secretary, Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry and approved by IDA. The purpose of the mid-term review
is to allow an opportunity, based on the experience of the initial years, to
make required changes, if any, that may be necessary to procedures or policy;
make revisions to set targets and goals and identify any additional measures
that may seem warranted to improve project implementation. The mid-term
review could also serve to identify any follow up operations that may be
considered appropriate for continued IDA involvement in the sector.
4.21      Supervision.  The project would require average supervision, except
in the first year when project works are initiated and the Social Mobilization
Unit is involved in finalizing the work plans of the communities and defining
their management responsibilities. A higher supervision input is justified in
the first year in view of the expected high degree of local community
participation in project activities. Except for the first year, IDA would use
approximately 12 staff weeks per year for supervision, Details of supervision
arrangements are further elaborated in Annex V.



- 32 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1       The nature of project activities, namely introduction of resource
management techniques, institutional restructuring, privatization and
extension, are such that benefits cannot be readily quantified. In addition,
externalities, particularly in conservation activities in the hilly areas, in
the watersheds, and through reforestation defy ready quantification, although
the benefits are likely to be significant. Such benefits could take the form
of reduction in soil loss, landslides, downstream sedimentation, including
siltation of reservoirs and preservation and conservation of bio-diversity.
These activities would improve the quality of life of most of the 2.6 million
people living in AJK.
5.2       Farmers in AJK will directly benefit through the introduction of
environmentally friendly TPs which would enhance incomes. In the area of
human resource, training activities and the public awareness programs will
provide a better knowledge of environmental degradation and remedial measures
for conservation of resources.  The project would contribute to the
empowerment of local communities, to the creation of local management
capabilities and to the acknowledgement and enhancement of the role of women
in the management of natural resources.
5.3       The road improvement component would improve twelve fair weather
roads to all weather access roads. The improvement would enable year round
movement of farm inputs and outputs and other basic requirements, such as
fuelwood and food, open up the remote agricultural areas and induce higher
agricultural production, reduce vehicle operating costs and save travel time.
5.4       Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) were calculated for some of the
project activities. ERRs were undertaken individually for each of the
proposed roads. The ERRs ranged between 9-17*. For reforestation activities,
ERRs were calculated for timber, fuelwood and fuelwood-pasture plantations.
Their ERRs averaged 16%. The project impact on farm income was analyzed
through representative farm models, with estimation of the net increment to
income through the introduction of improved TPs. On this basis, the estimated
ERR for farm activities was 17%.
5.5       To evaluate the overall viability of the project, the ERR was
calculated for the whole project, inclusive of total cost elements such as the
pilot areas and institutional development. The ERR for the whole project is
13%.
Table 5.1 Economic Rates of return
Reforestation Activities    16%
Farm Activities              17%
Road Improvement             169
Total Project                13%



- 33 -
5.6       The ERR for the whole project is not substantially lower than the
ERR of main project activities, and is because most of the costs had been
already accounted for in these components (82%). The estimated ERR for the
whole project is conservative as all benefits have not been quantified. Such
unquantified benefits arise from positive externalities such as reduction in
soil loss, landslides and down stream sedimentation and from the time lag in
realization of benefits particularly in investment in human capital such as
training and technical assistance as well as in the pilot areas.
5.7       To test the sensitivity of the calculated ERR to possible adverse
outcomes, an analysis of switching values of key variables was carried out.
For the total project, cost increase of 10% with a simultaneous decrease in
benefits by 10 would reduce the ERR to 12%, the assumed opportunity cost of
capital. If project benefits were delayed by one year, the ERR declines to
11. The details of the economic and farm budget analyses and the sensitivity
analysis by component appear in Annex VII.
Environmental Effects
5.8       The proposed project has been reviewed under the provisions of the
operational directive 4.00 Annex A (Environmental Assessment), and placed in
category "B". An environmental review was carried out to assess the
significance of the environmental effects of the activities proposed, and to
determine measures to enhance environmental management in the project area.
5.9       Activities under the proposed project seek to improve the existing
production systems and infrastructure facilities, and are complemented by
interventions aimed at improving resource management and the quality of the
environment in AJK. Moreover, specific safeguards and practices would be
incorporated into the design and implementation of project activities, as well
as supportive institutional arrangements for resource management and
oversight.
5.10      As in most of the rest of Pakistan, there is currently no mechanism
in AJK to facilitate consideration of environmental and resource management
concerns into development planning or decision making. Senior staff would be
provided under the project to be located in the P&DD, and have oversight for
resource management and environmental matters of all development projects.
The P&DD is the most appropriate location for this oversight, given its
mandate for coordinating, monitoring and evaluating government programs and
projects. Technical assistance would be provided under the project to develop
procedures for environmental screening and monitoring of development projects
and to train P&D staff for this purpose.
5.11      With respect to specific activities, the agricultural activities
are largely expected to have a positive impact on the environment,
particularly through improving perennial tree crop cover through the promotion
of horticulture, and by improving the production of cereal and fodder crops,
and reducing pressure on hillside grazing areas. Livestock grazing has been a
major source of erosion and degradation of environmentally fragile hillsides.
Improved pest management is expected to follow guidelines on appropriate
policies and procedures as in the Project Agreement. The project would
support the use of pesticides, only as a last resort in controlling pests and
disease, that is during epidemics and pest management campaigns. The
activities relating to livestock, which are related to fodder production and



- 34 -
research would also have a positive environmental impact by reducing grazing
pressure on the hillsides. The project would promote soil conservation
through training and demonstration. The National Agricultural Research Center
(NARC) would be encouraged to complete the collection of plant crop germplasm
from AJK.
5.12      Work to be undertaken in the forestry sector, with local community
participation and cost sharing, is expected to have a substantial positive
impact on the environment. The project would help meet the urgent need to
reverse the rapid degradation of forest lands. It would improve soil and
water conservation, enhance tree cover, and by providing fodder and fuelwood,
relieve the pressure on the existing natural forests. Local communities would
be involved from the outset in participatory forestry programs and the formal
agreements would specify the responsibilities of the community and the
distribution of the benefits.
5.13      The feeder road improvement program is expected to have no major
impacts on vegetation, wildlife or other land uses. There are no resettlement
issues involved. The feeder roads would be designed with adequate provision
for drainage, treatment of slopes to avoid erosion and retention walls would
be provided at weak locations. Moreover, the aim of the road improvement work
is to correct the problems of ill-planned and poorly constructed roads which
have contributed to soil erosion and landslides in the past. Design and
construction supervision would be the responsibility of consultant engineers,
and construction would be closely monitored to ensure compliance with agreed
design standards.
Risks
5.14      The possible risk is that the local community may be slow in
forming community participatory groups. However, it is expected that
experience already gained by the community in recent participatory approaches
including AKRSP, the active involvement of the Social Mobilization Unit,
combined with technical input from the government support services and mass
education and training under the project would contribute to a high level of
farmer interest.
5.15      Another risk is that the returns from the project may be
inadequate. However, experience to date with the development and
dissemination of TPs has, on balance, been positive. The returns to rural
roads has been quite good. Using pilot projects on promising but as yet not
widely tested approaches before widespread dissemination will mitigate risks.
The risk of financial sustainability of public sector resource management
institutions is being addressed by reducing the overall net size of the public
sector.
5.16      A final possible risk is that the privatization, subsidy removal
and staff redeployment program may encounter implementation delays. Adequate
safeguards have been built into the project such as the preparatory activities
(appointment of consultants and senior staff of the Privatization Unit), prior
government approval of the time phased program, adequate training of staff,
close monitoring and annual evaluation to ensure that the program as envisaged
remains on track.



- 35 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       The following agreements were reached with GOP and GOAJK during
negotiations:
(a) GOP/GOAJK agreed to implement the following (Para 3.3):
(i)  the reduction of subsidies as follows: (a) on potato seed, by
20% in each of the years beginning July 1, 1994, July 1, 1995
and July 1, 1996; (b) on vegetable seed, by 15% in each of the
years beginning July 1, 1994, July 1, 1995, July 1, 1996 and
July 1, 1997; (c) on fruit seedling, by 15% in each of the
years beginning July 1, 1994 and July 1, 1995; (d) on bare root
forest seedling, by 10% in each of the years beginning July 1,
1994 and July 1, 1995, and by 20% in each of the years
beginning July 1, 1996, July 1, 1997 and July 1, 1998; and
(e) on container forest seedling, by 15% in the year beginning
July 1, 1994, and by 20% in each of the years beginning July 1,
1995, July 1, 1996, July 1, 1997 and July 1, 1998;
(ii) the transfer of production and distribution activities as
follows: (a) in respect of one potato seed farm in each of the
years beginning July 1, 1994 and July 1, 1996; (b) in respect
of two vegetable seed farms in each of the years beginning July
1, 1994, July 1, 1995 and July 1, 1996, and in respect of one
such farm in the year beginning July 1, 1997; (c) in respect of
five fruit seedling farms in each of the years beginning July
1, 1995 and July 1, 1996, and in respect of four such farms in
each of the years beginning July 1, 1997 and July 1, 1998;
(d) in respect of 11 ha of land producing forest seedling, in
the year beginning July 1, 1995, 16 ha of such land in the year
beginning July 1, 1996, 26 ha of such land in the year
beginning July 1, 1997, and 16 ha of such land in the year
beginning July 1, 1998; and (e) in respect of thirty-one
fertilizer and seed stores in the year beginning July 1, 1995;
and
(iii) redeployment of about 290 staff of DOA, DOAH and DOF staff
released as a result of the transfer of input production and
distribution activities under (ii) above for the purposes of
the Project as follows: (a) about 145 such staff in the year
beginning July 1, 1995; (b) about 70 such staff in the year
beginning July 1, 1996; and (c) the remaining such staff in the
year beginning July 1, 1997.
(b) ATI Diploma would be a prerequisite for recruitment to Field
Assistant positions in DOA by September 30, 1996. (Para 3.7);
(c) a revolving fund would be set up in DOAH for deposit of vaccination
fees and finance the purchase of subsequent vaccine supplies (Para
3.15);



- 36 -
(d) implementing agencies would: (i) maintain separate project accounts
which independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, and audit annually,
(ii) have their auditors issue separate opinions on project
accounts, disbursement from the special account, and SOEs and
supporting documents used as a basis for disbursements from the
credit, (iii) submit an audit report of project accounts to IDA
within nine months of the fiscal year's end (Para 3.42).
6.2       The IDA credit would not become effective until ECNEC has approved
the project's PC-1 and sanctioned project expenditures (Para 3.30).
6.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness,
the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 20.4 million
(US$ 28.8 million) to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on standard IDA terms
with 35 years maturity.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TREATMENTS AND TECHNIOUES
Introduction
1.          The project provides for support to extension services and adaptive
research under the framework of the reorganized Department of Agriculture (DOA).
To redefine DOA's strategy for enhancing overall farm productivity, it is
important that DOA reverts to its core function of agricultural extension with
a renewed vigor. This can be achieved by: (a) gradually phasing out the inputs
production/distribution functions and redeploying the resources so released to
support and strengthen the extension services; and (b) reformulating the
intensive production oriented technical packages (TPs) through increased focus
on adaptive and on-farm research encompassing appropriate soil conservation
practices and cost effective farm management techniques. The reformulated TPs
must have a strong orientation of productivity restoration and maintenance.
2.          The main objective of the project is to provide for institutional
strengthening of DOA, particularly streamlining the field extension in the areas
not covered in the previous projects.   The project will add more extension
centers and extension circles, provide the necessary physical infrastructure, and
ensure better staff mobility to increase buoyancy of the extension service in
reaching out to a larger clientele. Incremental funds would be provided to meet
the needs of an effective service. Rationalization of the present organization
also provides room for better supervision of the field staff by creating two new
supervisory positions at the Divisional level and providing specialized training
for the redeployed staff to match their skills  for the new initiatives.
Technical assistance would be made available to evolve extension methodologies
responsive to the needs of given areas with a view to optimize field staff input
and at the same time attain greater coverage through contact group farmers and
community participatory approaches.
Implementation
3.          The generation of reformulated TPs, and their refinement on location
specificity grounds would be a continuous process for which adequate operational
funds, mobility, and the necessary materials and equipment are provided. The
existing group of five core Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would be
strengthened by adding an SMS (Soil Conservation and Resource Management) and an
SMS (Community Participation), through redeployment and intensive training. The
unit, called "Training and Adaptive Research Unit" (TARU), would be back-stopped
by Research and Technical Support Services (DOA), Livestock Development and
Research  (DOAH), and Forestry Groups.   Cross inter and intra-institutional
linkages and formal review mechanisms would be built into the operational
procedures for TARU to ensure regularized sub-sectoral inputs into the
programming,  planning and analysis of adaptive research.   The unit would



- 38 -
undertake on-farm trials and testing programs in the entire project area. To
facilitate the execution of such programs in the remote districts, additional
Research Officers are provided. The Agricultural Economics Research Unit (AERU)
of Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) would be a part of the TARU's
programming review mechanisms and it would be contracted to undertake agro-
ecological zone based diagnostic studies through multi-disciplinary TARU-AERU and
other  research support  teams.    In addition  to providing  funds  for such
activities, AERU would also conduct ad hoc studies which would be identified
during project implementation. Overseas training facilities for the SMS group
in their respective fields of specialization, and technical assistance for a well
balanced off-take and continued refinement of TARU's program planning and
analytical endeavors are provided.
4.           An on-farm soil conservation demonstration program has been built
into the project to promote low cost soil conservation practices at the farm
level.  The SMS (Soil Conservation), with assistance from the soil and water
conservation section of the DOA, would conduct about 500 demonstrations in the
entire State. Initially, three models/TPs have been identified involving a mix
of on-farm terrace improvement, check damming and soil stabilization through
perennial grasses, orchard trees, and agroforestry. Further, adaptive research
in this crucial area would be directed to evolve more area specific farm-
compatible TPs to arrest degradation of farm land resources caused by intensive
cultivation and overgrazing.    In-service  training courses  for the entire
extension staff, specifically directed to soil conservation and resource
management aspects, have been included in the project.
5.          The project also provides for continuous training of the extension
staff, at the field level, to strengthen and update skills and knowledge of the
front line extension workers.   Mobile teams of SMSs would regularly impart
training to extension agents and farmers and obtain feedback on farmers'
constraints in implementing the reformulated TPs.  Six new training centers,
fully equipped with training aids and audio-visual equipment, would be added to
the four existing centers, and all centers would be made fully operational in
catering to the training needs.
6.          To strengthen the extension effort, mass awareness program, based on
a well defined media dissemination strategy and availing all existing channels
of mass communications, would be provided. The program would include deployment
of media and publication staff in a cell located with TARU, provision of local
technical assistance from professional media experts, production of audio/video
and print materials (documentaries, cassettes, posters, brochures and leaflets),
and the creation of a small in-house reproduction/editing facility.   Media
campaigns on natural resource management, soil conservation, community
participation, enhancing farm land productivity and fertility through biological
systems, awareness of resource degradation, and environmental hazards of modern
farm inputs would receive special focus under the program and cater to not only
farmers but all groups in the community.
Technical Packages
7.    During the past decade (1980-90), technical packages (TPs) for increasing
the production of field crops and orchards were developed in AJK through applied



- 39 -
and adaptive research, including on-farm trials, for three altitude based domains
(low, mid, and high altitudes corresponding to 1000 m, 1000-2000 m, and above
2000 m) .  Three levels of inputs, based on farmers resource endowments, were
built into the TPs with a view to optimizing farm outputs.  The focus of the
existing TPs was on increasing production, not necessarily productivity, and
little attention was paid to natural resource management, soil conservation, and
the maintenance of inherent soil fertility to the extent possible.  Under the
project, these missing aspects would be given due consideration in developing new
TPs or reformulating the existing ones.   For comparison purpose, TPs for low
domains and medium level of technological inputs, with improved/certified seeding
materials for four representative crops, are listed in the matrix presented
below:
Crops      Activity/Inputs       I            Existing TPs              I                 Proposed TPs
Maize         Sowing Time             May-June                              May-June
Ploughings (no.)       3                                      2-3; rows orientation in harmony with
recommended soil conservation practices
Seed rate (kg/ha)    60; drilling or hand placement   60; drilling/placement
Seed Treatment         200 g/ha fungicide                     200 g/ha fungicide
Weed Control            Hand weeding/weedicides (eg.          Farm Labor only
Stomp) a 3-5 l/ha
Fertilizers (kg/ha   75:40:0; without considering             More reliance on FYM; green manuring;
of N:P:K)               Farm Yard Manure's (FYM) input   and redefine fertilizer dosage
FYM                    No emphasis                            2,500 kg/ha/year
Plant protection       Chemical control; 20 kg/ha             Pest scouting; integrated pest
granuLar pesticides for               management (IPM); and minimal reLiance
controlling stem borer                on pesticides
Wheat         Sowing Time             November-December                     November-December
Ploughings (no.)       2-3                                    1-2; rows orientation in harmony with
recommended soiL conservation practices
Seed rate (kg/ha)    100; driLLing or broadcasting            100; driLLing/placement
Seed Treatment         300 g/ha fungicide (Vitavax)           300 g/ha fungicide
Weed ControL            Hand weeding/weedicides (eg.          Farm Labor only
Buctril) a 1-2 l/ha
Fertilizers (kg/ha  75:50:0; without considering              More reLiance on FYM; green manuring;
of N:P:K)               Farm Yard Manure's (FYM) input   and redefine fertilizer dosage
FYM                    No emphasis                            2,500 kg/ha/year (for maize/wheat)
Plant protection       None                                   None.  Disease control through seed
selection; seed treatment; and cultural
methods



- 40 -
Oats         Sowing Time          October-November                    October-November
Ploughings (no.)    2-3                                 1-2; rows orientation in harmony with
recommended soil conservation practicesI
Seed rate (kg/ha)   60 (seed), 80-100 (fodder);         60 (seed), 80-100 (fodder); drilling or
drilling or broadcasting           broadcasting
Seed Treatment       200 g/ha fungicide (Vitavax)       200 g/ha fungicide (Vitavax)
Weed Control         None                               None
Fertilizers (kg/ha  75:50:0; without considering        More reliance on FYM; green manuring;
of N:P:K)            Farm Yard Manure's (FYM) input   and redefine fertilizer dosage
FYM                  No emphasis                        2,500 kg/ha/year (for maize/oats)
Plant protection    None                                None.  Disease control through seed
treatment; and cultural methods
Apples       Planting Time        March                               March
Pit Preparation      0.5 m deep, 0.3 m diameter         0.5 m deep, 0.3 m diameter pits;
pits; pulverized soil fill         pulverized soiL fill; integrate with
on-farm soiL conservation models
Seedling rate/ha    300 plants                          300 plants
SeedLing Treatment  Formaldehyde a 1.5 L/ha             FormaLdehyde a 1.5 L/ha
Fertilizers (kg/ha  N: 30-150 in years 1-5; Linear   N: 25-125 in years 1-5; Linear
of N:P:K)            P: 35-175 in years 1-5; Linear   P: 30-150 in years 1-5; Linear
FYM                  6,000 kg/ha/year                   7,500 kg/ha/year
Plant protection    Gusathion/M. Parathion sprays;   IPM; Pest scouting; emphasize
or Phostoxin tablets for trunk   bioLogical control; or use Phostoxin
borer                              tablets for trunk borer when
infestation levels exceed economic
injury threshold
Grasses      Recommended          Since there has been little        Medicago sp., Dectylis glomerata,
species              focus on planting grasses,         Festuca sp., Apluda artistata, Clovers,
technical packages do not         Vetiver grass.
exist.  The available
Planting time        information on recommended         Both Rabi and Kharif seasons.
species, agronomic practices,
Available area       and conservation measures is       Approx. 20.30X of wasteland farm area;
fragmented and needs               .2 x .25 m strips for 20X, and .3 x .25
formulation into discreet         m strips for 30X model; also include
packages.                          terrace ridges.
Seed rate                                               Based on individual species.
Fertilizer                                              Phosphates or NP 2 18.23 kg/ha as P.
Farm yard manure                                        As much as available; usually 1.2
tons/ha year.
Range Management                                        Grazing by rotations; allow time for
regeneration.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
Objectives
1.          The community participatory approach adopted in this project is based
on a review of contemporary participatory approaches in comparable social
conditions in hilly areas of Pakistan as well as neighboring countries. The main
focus of this approach is on participation and privatization leading to
sustainability and financial  independence.    It promotes  active community
participation at the grassroots in the long-term management of natural forests,
plantations, rangeland, agriculture and increased production of livestock. The
major objectives are to: (a) involve local communities in the planning and
execution of the program for the development of the communal lands; (b) change
the top down approach and set up community based institutional structures to fill
the institutional vacuum caused by the breakdown of traditional institutions; and
(c) test, on a pilot basis, ways of mobilizing resources, including financial
resources and achieving ways by which the community would meet full operating
costs of development activities. This would involve: (i) group formation and
community participation for the preparation of integrated resource management
plans with the community directly participating in decision making and financial
management of the resources; and (ii) introduction of activities and
establishment of systems for pooling of financial resources generated by the
community which could be utilized for the further development and management of
community resources.   The results achieved in these pilots areas will be
continuously monitored and evaluated and applied progressively to other areas.
2.          The main features of the approach are: (i) a two-tier collective
forum of the people at the community and village level for carrying out the
planned activities and at the operational level for necessary support,
coordination and monitoring; (ii) an action plan of development works; (iii) an
extension, education and training program for upgrading skills of the people
through community based change agents (male and female); and (iv) a community
mobilization unit at the operational and implementation level.   All project
interventions will be determined in consultation with collective forums of the
people and channeled through them as for as possible. The level of participation
and privatization would be different for various project activities.
3.          The project would include support for activities in five pilot sub
watershed areas (20 villages) under which farmers would be encouraged to take
full responsibility for the planning, execution and financial management of the
programs on communal lands.  These five areas have already been selected by
government and the community. These sub watersheds, by and large, were selected
on the following criteria: extent of degradation; willingness of community to
participate and form Village Development Committee (VDC); pool financial
resources and bear full operational cost of project activities. The lessons and
experiences in the pilot area will be incorporated into the community



- 42 -
participation agreements drawn up in the latter project years. Table 1 gives
acreage under agriculture, pasture, forest and fuelwood in each of the five sub
watersheds:
Table 1: Area Distribution of Model Sub watersheds
(acres)
Name        District    Agric.    Pasture    Forest   Fuelwood         Total
Banguin    Poonch       4015        1962       1023       2000         9000
Hular      Bagh         3357        1731       3400       1662        10150
Baluch     Poonch       1307        3001       3005        843         8150
Chhotagala Poonch       2179        2920       2186       2920        10205
Sensa      Kotli        3248        1682       1600       1600         8130
4.          A detailed management plan would be drawn up for these model sub
watersheds which would cover forestry, range management, soil conservation,
agriculture and livestock management interventions needed for integrated
development.   The management plan would be approved by the Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS) and the Social Mobilization Unit (SMU). A utilization plan
would also be drawn up for the pasture land and plantation of the treated sub
watersheds.   The communities would be educated in the sustained use of the
resources and would be organized as village development committees (VDCs) to take
over the responsibility of plantation, pasture, and livestock management.
Institutional Arrangements
5.          Social Mobilization Unit. A SMU would be set up to motivate and
mobilize village communities and organize them into VDCs in the sub watersheds.
The SMU would be staffed by three social organizers (2 male and one female) and
a coordinator. They would remain mobile in their respective sub watersheds -each
male would be given specific watersheds, while the female would work in all the
five sub watersheds. The SMU will convene meetings to finalize management plans
and proposed interventions.  These plans would be flexible, regularly reviewed
and changed according to the needs and priorities of the local people.
6.          The Social Organizers (SOs) would be assisted by the professional and
technical staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and Ministry
of Forestry.  The technical staff would closely collaborate with the SOs and
provide assistance for preparation and implementation of resource management
plans.  Technical assistance would be made available to evolve methodologies
responsive to the needs of given areas with a view to optimize field staff input
as well as attain greater coverage through contact groups and community
participation. The TORs of the Coordinator and SOs are given below:
Terms of Reference
7.          SMU Coordinator.  He will be responsible for: (i) supervising the
work of three SOs and coordinating with the line agencies; (ii) preparing report
on the SMU performance and evaluation; (iii) organizing training for staff and
farmers in managing and dealings with VDCs; and (iv) organizing SMU meetings.



- 43 -
8.          Male  Social  Organizers.    They will  be  responsible  for:  (i)
organizing, guiding and strengthening of VDCs; (ii) training and supervising
village motivator/extension and project staff in issues related to community
organization and participation; (iii) assisting the villagers in planning,
implementing and monitoring the forest and range utilization schemes and field
works, and in managing the livestock resource, agriculture land, and savings
mobilization; and (iv) assisting the Coordinator, VDCs and SMS in preparation and
implementation of management plan for each model sub watershed.
9.          Female  Social  Organizer.    She  will  be  responsible  for:  (i)
implementing women activities in energy conservation, tree and fodder nurseries,
kitchen garden, livestock management and improved animal husbandry; (ii)
identifying and supervising other activities and income generating programs for
village women; (iii) forming and strengthening women organization and encouraging
savings habits; (v) supervising the work of female village motivators; and (vi)
identifying training needs for women and project staff in issues related to women
in development and preparing information dissemination materials geared to women.
10.         In addition, the SMU as a whole, would be responsible for preparing
training materials for interdisciplinary and interactive planning and group
organization and supervision; resource use and management including cost and
benefit sharing; and sustainable agricultural development.
11.         Village Development Councils.         A VDC would be set up in each
participating village with the assistance of the SMU.  Twenty VDCs would be
constituted during the project period. The VDCs would involve the community in
planning, execution and community sharing of benefits.  A motivator from the
village would be selected as a bridge between the VDCs and the project. During
the  project  period  these  VDCs  would  be  strengthened  to  take  over  the
responsibility of plantation, pasture and management of the communal lands and
other activities. The managing body of VDCs consisting of a President, Manager-
Secretary,  and  Treasurer  would  look  after  the  daily  activities.    The
responsibilities of a VDC would be to enroll all households in the village as
members and inculcate in them group discipline, hold meetings at regular
intervals and formulate and implement proposals, undertake works related to
development and physical infrastructure and arrange for maintenance and repair
of community works, raise savings and funds as equity capital and issue and
recovery of loans, settle disputes amicably through arbitration or mediation and
maintain proper accounts. The VDCs would be encouraged to open a village savings
account where savings from grasses, fuelwood and other activities would be
deposited.   These savings would be utilized for common cause and the most
immediate needs of the community, identified by the VDC.  Agreement has been
reached with the district Councils that the communities bear 50 percent cost of
protection (watch and ward) on all communal and private land reforestation.
Maior Programs
12.         Major programs  for the development  of pilot  areas  are:  mass
awareness, community organization and development, development schemes, extension
education and training, women development and sectoral activities.
13.         Mass Awareness.  Mass awareness can be done in two ways: through mass
media - print and electronic - at the project level, and through orientation of



- 44 -
local people, display of posters at community centers and talks to collective
forums at the community level. The SMU would be responsible for coordinating
with the media and publication unit of DOA to obtain leaflets/posters, pamphlets,
banners, slides, videos, and for organizing rallies, fairs, conventions and
exchange visits.
14.         Community Organization and DeveloRment Plans. The SMU would collect
information about each subwatershed area and update it on a regular basis. Based
on this information, the SMU would assess needs of the communities regarding
subwatersheds/forest, agriculture/crops, livestock, poultry, occupational,
physical infrastructure and list existing collective forums (such as, mosque,
hujra, Zakat committees, Youth Associations, etc.). The next step would be to
identify local resources, assess available manpower, contact individuals, groups
and communities and muster local resources for the needs identified. Finally,
the SMU would carry out surveys to assess the goals and priorities of the local
population which would involve collection and updating of information through
reconnaissance survey or rapid rural appraisal or training-survey-planning,
analysis of the information and diagnosis of the problems,   suggestion of
remedial measures in consultation with and active participation of the people,
formulation of feasible schemes for the proposed solutions and consolidation and
compilation of the schemes and development plan for each sub watershed.
15.         Development Schemes and Activities.  These would involve plantation
of subwatersheds, raising of nurseries for sale to forest department/farmers,
kitchen/courtyard garden by women, training in livestock improvement and poultry
keeping, and vocational skills and equipment for men and women.
16.         Extension Education and Training. This would involve improvement and
updating know-how, expertise and skills of rural communities particularly in:
group order and discipline, capital formation through regular savings, profits
from sale and other commercial activities, agriculture, livestock, poultry,
forestry, soil conservation, fruit and vegetable production, physical
infrastructure schemes and management and book keeping.   Training would be
conducted in the following areas at regular intervals: (i) cultural practices -
soil/agronomy, seed, fertilizer and plant protection; (ii) poultry and livestock
- feed, disease control and treatment and improved breeds; (iii) small
development works and income generating schemes - formats, feasibilities,
execution, supervision/monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) health education.
17.         Women in Development.    This would involve:  (i) survey of women
resources and their potential role through rapid appraisal; (ii) upgrading their
vocational skills; (iii) simplification of labor intensive operations to save
time and energy for more productive uses; (iv) introduction of useful technology
and equipment (e.g. fuel efficient hearths/stoves, etc.); and (v) organization
of Women Development Committees for collective management of productive schemes.
18.         Sectoral Activities.  The functions of the core sectoral departments
would function more intensively and their activities would be integrated under
the project. They would also collaborate in the project activities and provide
technical assistance to VDCs.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMV1
Name of Road                    District              Length (ki)
Bhaunt - Singola                         Poonch/Bagh                     24
Abbaspur - Chrikote - Plangy             Poonch/Bagh                     24
Alisougal - Kanchikote - Dari              Poonch                        20
Mujahadabad - Namb - Bareen                Poonch                        19
Dardrach - Namb - Chachann                 Poonch                        12
Nalian - Kahala - Blooch                   Poonch                        11
Hurnamera - Tari - Chapri                  Poonch                         8
Berigali - Namjar                          Poonch                         8
Atkora - Chachchan                          Kotli                         6
Sarhota - Samror - Dhanna                   Kotli                        21
Mohra Nar - Dubsi                           Kotli                         6
Choch - Khatras                             Kotli                         6
Total                                                                   165
1/   This is a tentative list which may undergo some revision when surveys
and designs are completed.
GEOMETRIC AND PAVEMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
Formation width:                 4.0 m
Carriageway width:               3.0 m
Maximum gradient:                12.5 %
Passing places:                  minimum 2 per km
minimum horizontal radius:       20 m
Pipe culverts:                   60 cm diameter
Sub-base course                  15 cm handpacked stones
Base course                      10 cm broken stones (compacted)
Blacktop:                        2.5 cm asphalt premix carpet



- 46 -                             ANNEX  IV
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year                 Quarter Ending              Projected Cumulative
Disbursements(US5'000)
94                          March 31, 1994                          400
June 30, 1994                          1000
95                          September 30, 1994                     1800
December 31, 1994                      2800
March 31, 1995                         4000
June 30, 1995                          5100
96                          September 30, 1995                     6200
December 31, 1995                      7300
March 31, 1996                         8400
June 30, 1996                          9500
97                          September 30, 1996                    10600
December 31, 1996                     11800
March 31, 1997                        13000
June 30, 1997                         14200
98                          September 30, 1997                    15200
Decenber 31 1997                      16600
March 31, 1998                        18700
June 30, 1998                        21000
99                          September 30, 1998                    23000
December 31, 1998                    25000
March 31, 1999                       26400
June 30, 1999                        27700
00                          September 30, 1999                    28800



- 47 -                              ANNE
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IDA PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Timing             Activity               Skill Requirements      Input (SW)
9/93    Project Launch Mission to   Task Manager                      4
define and clarify project  Privatization
implementation               Specialist
responsibilities
3/94    Supervision mission           Agriculturalist                 7
(review hiring of            Community Involvement
consultants, pilot areas,    Specialist, Engineer
community participation,
road improvement and TPs)
11/94    Supervision mission          Forester, Livestock              7
(Review pilot schemes,       Specialist, community
animal health and TPs,       specialist
community involvement)
Onwards   Two supervisions per year                                    12
as needed
1/96    Mid-Term Review                                              10
6/99    Project Evaluation                                           10



ANNEX VI
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENT
(US$ M. equivalent)
Project Year
Procurement Element             Responsible Agency                 -                              1                Total Payment                 Remark
1         2         3         4         5
Civil Works                        PWD/DOAW/DOAH/DOF/PD&D        1.8       2.3        3.0       3.0       1.9               12.0              LCB
Field Works                            DOF/DOA/DOAN              1.1       1.5        1.5       1.1       0.5                5.7              Force Account
Vehicles                                  DOA/DOAN               0.4        0.5       0.7       0.3       0.2                2.1              ICB
Equipmnt & Materials                   DOA/DOAH/PD&D             0.7        0.9       0.9       0.7       0.4                3.6              ICB
Local Shopping/LCB
Technical Assistance                   DOA/DOAH/PD&D             1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0       0.8                4.8              Int'l/Local                  0O
_______                     ~~~~~shopping
Training & Studies                     DOA/DOAN/PD&D             0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.1                0.9              Int'l/Local
Shopping
Recurrent/Operating Costs            DOA/DOAN/DOF/PD&D           1.3        1.3       1.3       1.3       0.8                6.0              Project Management
Exp.
Total                                                            6.5       7.7        8.6       7.6       4.8               35.2
IDA Financing                                                    5.6       6.4       7.1        6.1       3.6              (28.8)
* This excludes purchase of land (US$0.4 M) and labor contributed (US$1.4 M) by the community for field works.



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Economic analysis was carried out for the forestry, agriculture, road
improvement components and whole project. Details of the methodology employed
in the economic analysis are as follows:
A. Reforestation Activities
2.    For the purpose of the analysis, the economic benefits of the forestry
component are derived from re-forestation. To estimate the net benefits of
forestry activities, three representative forestry plantations models of 1.0
ha were formulated for fuelwood, coniferous, and fuelwood-cum-pasture
respectively. For purpose of the analysis, the total reforested area is
estimated at 17,500 ha. About 10,500 ha would be under fuelwood plantations,
2,000 ha under coniferous species and 5,000 ha under fuelwood-cum-pasture
plantations.
3.    Under fuelwood plantations, broad-leaf species (90%), which are valued
by local communities for high quality fuelwood and for fodder production, are
to be planted. Broad-leaf species include Robinia psuedoacacia, Ailanthus
altissima, Dalbergia sissoo, Albizzia lebbek, Lucaena lucocephala, Morus alba,
Eucalyptus camaldulensis, Salix sp. and some locally preferred indigenous
species). Coniferous plantations would mainly be Pinus roxburghii (chir
pines) as they would continue to be important because of their performance in
difficult environments. Pastures would be medicago and clovers.
4.    The main quantifiable benefits of forestry activities under the project
were the production of fuelwood, timber, and fodder. A rotation period model
was used for each specie to estimate the output which also took account of
final cut and thinnings. The yields profile were based on actual recent data
obtained from the Forestry Department in AJK. The benefits stream was
calculated over a thirty-year period. The assumption was made that there are
no timber, fuelwood and foliage productions in the 'without' project
situation.
B. Roads
5.    Roads selected were within and in close proximity to the pilot areas.
Specific emphasis was then placed on the population in the villages, the
current condition of the roads, the expected vehicle traffic, and the total
area under cultivation. In addition to improving these roads to all-weather
standard, upgrading would involve the correction of ill planned and poorly
constructed roads to reduce environmental degradation.



- 50 -
6.    The economic analysis employed in this case is based on the "with" and
"without" project cases of vehicles using the roads. The benefits are based
on the assumption of net savings of road users in vehicle operating costs
(reduction in fuel consumption, and general maintenance costs).
7.    Average daily traffic (ADT) for each road was obtained by traffic counts
of line departments (PWD), and vehicle operating costs for different types of
vehicles were obtained from the Pakistan National Traffic Research Center. In
addition, based on records of representative roads in the project area of
Integrated Hill Farming Development Project and historical growth within the
respective districts, the volume of 'normal' traffic was assumed to increase
at an annual rate of 5%. For 'generated' traffic growth rate as a result of
improved roads, S0W of normal growth was assumed for first two years after
completion of roads and an annual increase of 3% thereafter.
8.    The annual benefits (net savings on vehicle operating costs) for the
'without' project case was derived as normal growth rate of an ADT for a year
times length of road and vehicle operating cost. For 'with' the project case,
vehicle operating cost savings was quantified as the net savings on vehicle
operating cost of normal traffic plus the additional benefits incurred from
generated traffic. However, no benefit was expected to be realized during the
five-year construction period.
9.    The main cost element is the cost of upgrading the existing surface to
all-weather standard. This improvement is assumed to have a 15-year economic
life before reconstruction would be required. It is assumed there would be no
residual or salvage value to the roads at the end of the 15-year period. As
routine and periodic road maintenance are necessary, both annual routine
maintenance and resurfacing costs (five year cycle) are incorporated in cost
stream after construction of the roads. With such maintenance, vehicle
operating costs are estimated to remain constant over the life of the project.
C. Aariculture
10.   For the farm income analysis of the project, three representative farm
models have been developed. These models are based on three ecological zones
based on altitude domains: low (below 750 m), mid (750-1500 m), and high
(above 1500 m) altitude domains corresponding to sub-tropical, sub-temperate,
and temperate/alpine pasture zones. As the average farm size in the project
area is 0.98 ha, these farm models are based on 1.0 ha farm. All three models
include income from livestock activities. The "with" project case includes
technical packages and treatments and related costs and benefits which are
compared with the "without" project situation.
D. Assumption#
11.   The underlying assumptions and the treatment of key variables in the
derivation of the economic rate of return (ERRs) are as follows:
(a) Prices. All values have been expressed in constant 1992
prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were
derived from the latest World Bank commodity price



- 51 -
forecast (December 1992), while those for non-traded goods are
based on domestic financial prices. All traded commodities and
inputs are valued at import parity prices. Appropriate adjustments
were made for freight, handling, processing, and quality
differentials. Non-traded outputs and inputs were expressed in
border rupees through application of a Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) of 0.9. The wage rate of unskilled labor was assumed to be
equal to the financial wage rate because of the favorable
employment situation in AJK. Fuelwood has been valued on the
basis of the presently used alternative source of energy,
kerosene.
(b)   Proiect life.  A project life of thirty years is assumed
for forestry, twenty years for agriculture, and fifteen
years for road improvement for economic analysis.
(c)   Investment costs.  After removing price contingencies,
taxes and duties, all investment costs have been included
in the economic analysis.
Production and Yields
12.   Forestry.  Of the assumed reforested area of 17,500 ha, about 2,000 ha
of demarcated state forest would be planted to coniferous species. About
9,500 ha of community land and 6,000 ha of private land would be planted with
mainly broadleaf species (90%) to satisfy farmers' need for fuelwood and
fodder. Based on the above and the three representative forestry models,
the total production from the project is expected to be 4.5 million m3 of
fuelwood, 0.2 million m3 of timber, and 1.5 million tons of forage over the
thirty-year period.
13.   Acrriculture.  The project is expected to increase agricultural
production over about 240,775 ha by applying recommended technical packages
and treatments for major crops grown in project area. In addition to yield
increases in main crops due to improved inputs and extension services, further
production would result from a gradual shift from local to improved varieties.
Under the present situation, cropping intensities ranges from 80% to 82%,
which is low. Under the project, changes in cropping patterns in all three
zones are expected. While maize would continue to dominate cropping patterns,
some change would occur in the relative importance of crops. In fact, the
project would aim at gradual reducing the area under wheat and fallow in favor
of green fodder (oats and sadabahar) and apple production.
14.    Table 1 below indicates that production of food crops (maize, wheat and
apples) would increase from 510,000 to 560,000 tons at full development (Year
5); fodder production on farm would increase from 335,000 to 575,000 tons; and
milk production from 390 to 660 million liters. Improved animal feed
production would be achieved through improved crop production (mainly maize,
sadabahar and oats) by introducing improved crop varieties and legumes into
the present cropping cycle. Increased fodder would provide additional animal



- 52 -
feed and help the present situation where about 60% of the fodder comes from
the hillside grazing.
15.   The total 'without' and 'with' the project, and the incremental
production from forestry, agriculture and livestock activities for the project
area are summarized in Table 1:
Table 1. Proiected Annual Production
Without         With         Incremental
Forestry (30 year cycle):
Fuelwood (Million m3)                              4.48               4.48
Timber (Million m3)                   -            0.18               0.18
Fodder (Million tons)                 1.31         1.53               0.22
Agriculture (Year 5):
Food crops (000 tons)                 510          560                  50
Fodder crops (000 tons)               335          575                240
Milk (Million liter)                  390          660                270
Farm Income Analysis
16.   The impact of the project on farm incomes is analyzed on the basis of
three representative farm models of 1.0 ha. The farm budget analysis
indicates that net farm income of participating farmers in the project area
will increase substantially at project year 5. Farmers in both mid and high
altitude regions will realize higher net farm income than in low altitudes.
This is mainly attributable to apple production as they are grown at higher
elevations only. In project year 5, the project would generate about Rs 6,600
(average of three different domains) in incremental farm income (in December
1992 prices), which is about 27% increase from the average of Rs 5,200 in the
without project case. This includes income from livestock activities, which
accounts for more than 60% of total farm income. The increase in farm incomes
reflects the high potential productivity of the proposed technical packages
and their effect on crop as well as livestock activities.



- 53 -
17.   The results of farm budget analysis are given in Table 2 below:
Table 2.    Prolect Imtact on Farm Net Income
(Rs)
Without     With (Year 5)         Incremental
High domain         6,600             8,300              1,700        26
Mid domain          7,000             8,200              1,200        17
Low domain          2,200             3,300              1,100        50
Average             5,200             6,600              1,400        27
18.   Increased agricultural activities would lead to additional employment in
the project area. The more intensive land and input use under the project
would increase labor requirements, which would provide more year-round
activities for presently underemployed farm family members. Employment of
women would be also increased. Furthermore, there would be the creation of
temporary employment as a result of project road construction, civil works,
plantation activities over the five year project period.
Economic Rates of Return
19.   The estimated ERRs for the agriculture and reforestation activities are
17W and 16%, respectively. For the proposed twelve roads, the ERR was
calculated individually and the range is between 9% and 17%. The overall ERR
for road improvement is estimated at 16%.
Table 3.     Economic Rates of Return
Reforestation                      16%
Farm Activities                    17%
Road Improvement                   16%
Total Project Activities           13%
20.   To evaluate the overall viability of the project, the ERR for the total
project was also calculated. Total benefits for the project are based on only
three project activities (forestry, agriculture and road improvement). Other
benefits were not estimated due to lack of data and difficulty in
quantification. Nevertheless, investment costs are taken for all project
activities over the project period. The investment cost for these three
components accounts for about 82% of the total project cost. Although the
project benefits were conservatively valued and significantly under-estimated,



- 54 -
and the project cost includes all costs, the ERR for the total project was
estimated at 13%.
21.   Of many unquantified benefits, several environmental and conservation
measures have not been incorporated into analysis such as soil conservation,
strengthening local management capacity, and reduction in downstream
siltation. It is certain, however, that without the project, deterioration of
the resource base would continue with adverse effects on overall productivity.
The project would improve the living standards of the poor urban and rural
communities. Through provision of technical expertise and training the
project would enable better policy formulation and decision making on resource
management issues.
Sensitivity Analysis
22.     To test the sensitivity of project's economic returns to possible
adverse outcomes, an analysis of switching values of key variables was carried
out. The analysis shows that the ERR for the total project is not sensitive
to changes in either costs and benefits. An increase in project costs by 10%
with a simultaneous decrease in benefits by 10% would reduce the ERR to only
11%. This is mainly because the project costs are taken for all project
activities, while the projected benefits are derived from only three
components. In the event that the projected benefits would delay by a year,
the ERR would decrease to 11%; a two year delay would reduce the ERR to 10*.
In the extreme case of investment costs increasing by 50% and the benefits
declining by 30%, the ERR would fall to 9%. Neither of these latter scenarios
is likely under the project.



- 55 -
ANNEX VIII
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
Category                            US$ million   Percent to be financed
(1) Civil works, field works           12.61       80% of expenditures
and forestry planting
(2) Foreign and local training,         5.19       100% of expenditures
consultancies and studies
(3) Vehicles, equipment and materials  3.84        100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of ex-factory prices of
locally manufactured items;
70% of local costs for other
items procured locally
(4) Incremental staff and               4.28       100% until an amount
operating costs                                equivalent to SDR 1.7
million; 60% thereafter and
until an amount equivalent to
SDR 2.8 million; and 30%
thereafter.
(5) Unallocated:
Civil works and field works         1.40
Vehicles, equipment and materials  0.42
Technical Assistance, training      0.59
and studies
Operating costs                     0.47
Subtotal                            2.88
Total                                  28.80



Pakistan
Northern Resource Management Project
Project Components by Year
Base Cost (Rs Million)                             Base Cost (US$ '000)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   Total    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
A. Institutional Restructuring and Support
Agricultural Services                                    34.9  20.6  15.6  11.7  11.5    94.3  1,343.2   793.9   600.9   449.9   440.7  3,628.5
Agriculture Extension & Adaptive Research                 7.8   5.3   3.5   2.1   2.1    20.7    299.2   204.4   133.2    79.6    79.6    796.0
Cointnity Forestry & Resource Management                 26.0  25.0  29.1  35.6  40.9   156.6    998.8   962.2 1,121.0 1,369.0 1,573.7  6,024.6
Community Awareness  Education                           2.0   0.9   0.6   0.5   0.5        4.4      76.6    34.5    21.8    18.9    17.6    169.4
Policy, planning & Evaluation                           42.8   6.8   6.5   6.9   6.4    69.4  1,644.9   260.6   251.3   266.7   247.5  2,671.0
Subtotal Institutional Restructuring and Support           113.4  58.6  55.3  56.8  61.3   345.5  4,362.6 2,255.5 2,128.2 2,184.2 2,359.0 13,289.5
B. Basic Technical Services                                 62.2  37.3  31.6  25.2  24.9   181.3  2,392.7 1,436.0 1,216.4   970.5   958.5  6,974.1
C. Road Improvement                                          6.0  46.4  60.9  62.0  44.3   219.6    232.3 1,785.5 2,341.0 2,384.0 1,702.0  8,444.7
D. Pilot Areas                                               8.6   9.6  10.6  10.5   9.1    48.4    332.6   369.1   409.4   403.5   348.3  1,862.8              1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        190.3 152.0 158.5 154.5 139.6   794.9  7,320.2 5,846.1 6,095.0 5,942.1 5,367.8 30,571.2              Cn
Physical Contingencies                                     17.1  15.0  15.9  15.4  13.6    77.0    659.5   577.2   611.5   592.4   522.5  2,963.0
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                  7.7  17.0  27.4  37.9  44.4   134.4    296.1   655.0 1,053.1 1,456.2 1,709.4  5,169.7
Foreign                                                1.6   2.2   3.2   3.8   4.2    15.0          62.0    83.9   122.9   146.0   162.5    577.2
Subtotal Inflation                                       9.3  19.2  30.6  41.7  48.7   149.4    358.0   738.8 1,176.0 1,602.2 1,871.8  5,746.9
Devaluation                                              6.7   6.1   7.6   7.8   7.7    35.9   -265.5  -461.2  -680.1  -878.2  -990.9 -3,275.9
Subtotal Price Contingencies                               16.0  25.3  38.2  49.4  56.4   185.3         92.5   277.6   496.0   724.0   880.9  2,471.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         223.5 192.3 212.5 219.3 209.5 1,057.2  8,072.1 6,701.0 7,202.4 7,258.5 6,771.2 36,005.2
Taxes                                                      36.1  28.5  33.9  33.5  27.5   159.4  1,304.8   995.1 1,152.3 1,110.5   890.8  5,453.6
Foreign Exchange                                           84.5  54.2  52.3  44.5  38.8   274.2  3,049.5 1,886.5 1,770.4 1,472.0 1,253.4  9,431.8



Pakistan
Northern Resource Management Project
Project Cost Sunmary
(Rs Million)                                 (USS '000)
%     Total                                   %     Total
Foreign  Base                                 Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs   Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Work                                  200.0    50.0   250.0          20    31   7,693.3 1,923.3  9,616.6           20    31
C. Field works                                 147.0        -   147.0          -    18   5,653.4          -  5,653.4         -    18
E. Vehicles & motorcycles                       23.9    23.9    47.9          50      6     921.0   921.0  1,842.0          50      6
F. Equipment
Computers/printers /a                         0.4      1.6      2.1        80      -      15.8    63.2       79.0        80      -
Imported equipment                            3.7      7.6    11.3         68     1      141.2   293.2    434.4          68      1
Locally manufactured equip.                   4.9        -      4.9         -     1      187.3        -    187.3          -      1
Office furniture                              1.0        -      1.0         -     -       38.6        -      38.6         -      -
Subtotal Equipment                              10.0      9.3    19.2         48      2     382.9   356.4    739.3          48      2
G. Land Acquisition                             10.5         -    10.5         -      1      402.8        -    402.8          -     1
I. Technical assistance & studies
International                                   -    56.4    56.4         100     7          - 2,167.5  2,167.5         100      7
Local                                        24.4        -    24.4          -     3      9jd.7        -    938.7          -      3
Studies                                      19.0        -    19.0          -     2      729.2        -    729.2          -      2
Subtotal Technical assistance & studies         43.4    56.4    99.7          57    13   1,668.0 2,167.5  3,835.5           57    13
J. Training & studies
Overseas                                        -    19.1    19.1         100      2          -   733.8    733.8        100      2
Local                                         9.5        -      9.5         -      1     365.2        -    365.2          -      1
Study (local)                                 0.2        -      0.2         -      -       8.8        -       8.8         -      -
Subtotal raining & studies                        9.7    19.1    28.8         66      4      374.0   733.8  1,107.9          66     4
L. Materials and supplies                        14.6    13.9    28.6         49      4      562.9   535.2  1,098.1          49     4
Total Investment Costs                              459.1   172.6   631.7          27    79  17,658.3 6,637.3 24,295.6           27    79
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental staff                             66.0        -    66.0          -     8   2,540.4         -  2,540.4          -     8
B. Operations and maintenance
Civil works                                   8.2      2.0    10.2         20      1     314.0    78.5    392.5          20      1
Vehicles                                     13.1    13.1    26.1          50      3     502.4   502.4  1,004.7          50      3
Subtotal Operations and maintenance             21.2    15.1    36.3          42      5     816.4   580.9  1,397.3          42      5
C. Materials and supplies                       22.5    20.7    43.2          48      5     866.4   795.1  1,661.5          48      5
D. Other costs /b                               17.6        -    17.6          -      2     676.5         -    676.5         -      2
Total Recurrent Costs                               127.4    35.8   163.2          22    21   4,899.6 1,376.0  6,275.6           22    21
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 586.5   208.3   794.9          26   100  22,558.0 8,013.2 30,571.2           26   100
Physical Contingencies                             55.2    21.9    77.0          28    10   2,121.6   841.4  2,963.0            28    10
Price Contingencies                               141.3    44.0   185.3          24    23   1,893.8   577.2  2,471.0            23     8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  783.0   274.2 1,057.2          26   133  26,573.4 9,431.8 36,005.2           26   118
\a computer, printer, fax machine, and photocopier
\b Includes office rent and administrative overhead.
3-1 Project Cost Summary



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing Organization of the Department of Agriculture
I  secmeary        I, 
Diector Agriculture
BPS-19
B o t a n i s t   E n t o m o l o i s t   C h e m i s t   A ge "   P rgcu r eAe nn                                             omga l .               U
Itr ators      Research       Research       Research        Research      Manaers       Agrculture      Research       Panning       Ener           Research        Trani
calcW53349A



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing Organization of the Department of Animal Husbandry
Secretary
Director
Depur   Dkor                                  Dep Dlrector   |                                         | Disease InvesLgation                Deputy Direcor |
|  Aninal   l   |       Lhastcek       l                                       |       a b~~~~~~~~~ffier                 Pcantry  
IADAM     ADAHM        OH||  OH||                     LSO     
M bZD  | POONCH    KT        tfUR                                 ||A)|
VN)  VONH         OH)       V()          LSO
Sup.(H)        (H        . (H)                                                                         Offi
K0        ADIO       ADIO       ADIO
mmh       MZD       POONCH    KOTLI    MRU
Kay-                                                                                          OR
ADA        - Assistant Dlecbr tAdrinistration
ADAH       = Assistant Drecr Animal Hu-1randry
ADIO       - Assnt  Dese Investgation Officer
LA         . Laboatory Assistant                                                               LT                                         POP         PDO        P OPO                   PDO
U'O       -kst ock Prbn Otfic                                                                                                             MZD         MZD      POONCH       KOTU       MIRPUR
LSC        - Lesock Coordnator
LSO          Uvestock OMOWr
LT            Laboratory Tocimclan                                                                                                        MPF        VO(P)   |VO(P|   VO (P)    |VO(P)
MPF        - Manager Poitry Fami                                                                                                           M                I I         I III
PDO        - Poutry Deveopmet Offic
POOP       - PoNtry Developnt Ofc  Producton
PO      -        Phgwfr   a Io                                                                                                           Sup. (P    SUP)                   Sup. (P)    Sup. (P)
RO         *P seRc Ollcr                                                                                                                         IIII                              II1
SA        - Stock ASSiWi
Sup. (A-1.)  = S-prvior (Arta Insemnain)
Sup. (H)        Suprvor (HLmi)                                                                                                             SA         SA          SA         SA          SA      4
Sup. (P)   - Supervisor (PoAry)
T&PO       * Trainn & Pubclty Offic                                                                                                        H     ||                A                      HA
VO (H)        Vetainary Offier (Health)
VO (P)    - Vernary Offcer Poultry)
VO (R)    .Vetrn   Offc (Research)
cioWc\W53349C



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing Organization of the Forest Department Azad Jammu & Kashmir
|  Secretary        |
|Chief Conservator|
ReforeFxnchtat|{in         s i SFo |stryD.F.O. (H.O.) F.D.
Forest Circle          ~~Circle                  Circle (IFAD                   Muzaffarabad
Sharda Forest                  KtceForest                   a   ost                     Re| Division ForestrCir|                                      StaIIstta
Division      Division                    ~~~Division                NotmValley                  Division Jehu                       Officr
|    Kuran Forest   |  0    Mirpur Forest          Poonch Forest                 Ref. Division   l                FSouth                      tReearch
7   Division  l    7     Division                  Division R.KOT               Muzatfarabad                Neelum Valley                       Officer
De|tio<                                                        a                                                        R     h|Demarcation  Researc
ffarabad  Division                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DivIsono
Jhelum Valley         |    Soil Conservation               Hilt Fanvning                Ref.   sion
LForest Division        |  Division Bhmber          K|8lROT                            Re Dotivis                      DngerLan|
____________                                                                          DivBqh/X0Tision                     D.F.O0 Ptarnlng
Muzaffamabad                           & Development
Demarcation Forest           SukatterWatershed             SoilConservation
Muzaf arabad    l    -|Management Project                   Engineer                   I.L.M. Division             Sol Conservation
Maag n  IMuzaffarabad               Division Bhimber
Resin Officer
Mirpur                                         _|     ILM yi:ion
_  Kashrr Forese
Muzaitarabad                                                                                                                                      U    S._. forest
Muzaffarabad F
~Forest Magistrate
Mirpur
Muzaffarabad ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Mzffrm  I  a
Rawalakot
ciW53349E



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of the Department of Agriculture
F - ~~~~~~~~~Secretary
Project                    ~~~~~~~Social
Director of  iiiiiiiiIiIiiiiII              Director                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mobilization
Training                                                                                                      Ui
Director General
Agriculture
Director of Extension,                               Directr o
Training & Adaptive                                  Research
Research                                        & Technical
Services                                                                  ON
- Agronomist                   Deputy Director
Deputy Director     Deputy Director                                   Hort. & Veg.             Economic Policy, Planning
Training &          Extension        Deputy Director                Specialist                     & Evaluation
Adaptive          Muzz, Bagh &         Mirpur &                   - Int. Pest. Man.
Research            Poonch               kotli                      Specialist
- Soil Chemist               - Sectoral Policy &
* Soil & Water                 Planning
-Project Prep. &
Appraisal
Conserv./Agric.                ApMp&rE
DAO                DAO                         Engineer                    Stastics
SMSs                 AHO                AHO
AOPP               AOPP
Key.
ROs                 AOs                 AOs                                  AHO   = Assistant Horticulture Otficer
AO    = Agricultural Officer
AOPP = Agricultural Officer Plant Protecbon
DAO   = District Agricultural Officer
FAs                FAs                                  FAS   = Field Assistants
RO    = Research Officer
SMS  = Subject Matter Specialist
cak\c\W53349B



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of the Department of Animal Husbandry
Secretary
Director General
Animal Husbandry
Director of Arimal                                                                                       Director of
HealtWNeterlnary Service                                                                                Uvestock Extension,
Resarch & Development
ADAH                                   DI                                                            DDEXT                                  DDR&D
VO                                                                                                DLDO, ADAI
SROs Breeding
Nutrition
VETYSUP.              ADiO                      VOR)                                                  .Poultry
VETYSUP.                                                      .VO|
PDO(P), LPO,
SA(AI-I)                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS       LSO Etc.
Umbrela based on
-HospitalsLDPrga
CDspeaies                                                                                                SA(DEV)                           LDC Program
- First Aid Center                                                                                                                             Large StorS
-Disease lnvesbgaiton                                                                                                                          Srna-iSo
- Vaccination                                                                                            -Large Stock                        -Small Stock
Key                                                                    - Small Stock                       -Pouity
ADAH  = Assistant Director Anirmal Health                              - Pouitry
ADIA   = Assian Director Arificai Inseminaion                            Al
ADIO   = Assia  Dsase Inrvesigabon Offcr                                                                                                  .
DDR&D = Deputy Director Research & Development
DDEXT = Deputy Dictor Extension
D      = Disease Irvestigation Otker O
4                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DLDO  = Disi  Livestock Devebopmer Officr
LPO    = Lvesiock Producon Officer
LS     = Lvestodc Supervsor
LSO    = Livestock Officer
PDO(P)   Poultry DevelopmentOfflier (Production)
SA     = Stock Assistant
SRO    = Senior Research OMier
VO     = Vetrinary Offier                                                                                                    cakrW53348D



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of the Forest Department Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Secretary
I      ChieConservator    I    Social Forestry    a
|    ol Fofests A.K.                   Wing
Muzaffarabad                  Mirpur                    Poonch                 Reforestation             Social Forestry              D.F.O. (H O.) FD-.
Forest Circle                 rrce                                               Cicle                       (IFAD)                   Muzaarabad
Sharda         Kotli                 ~~~~~~~~~Bagh Forest       R.Dvionsocial FoetyStatistical
q   Division  l   q       Division                   C 5 Division           Neelum Valley              Divislon Norh   |                Officer
"i                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Jehiurn Valley
Poonch Forest              Re(. Division            Social Forestry                  Research
Dhision                    M 1   Dhisionur   n     Division                 Muzallarabad             Division Souhcer
Division      Division               ~~~~~~Rawalakot                                     Neelum ValleyOfie
Muzaffarabad               Demtarcation              Deincartion                Ref. Division                                            Research
DIVI5IO~~~~I        Division                  Division                   awakfFcorst Divisn
F  ivts on                 Mirpur                   Rawalakot                 Ra l
0   Jhetum Valley    l    | Soil Conservation  |                           l    Ref. Division         i    Soil                       a          F      agistrate
DDiviion                    n  himber                                            Kotli              Conservation  -    NPRMP    i              Fl        Bag h
Forest    I       M fab           .
I Circle    I
|Demarcaton Forestl        Sukatter Watershed                                               ion Divis---n                 j              I
MuDavision              Management Project                                      Muzafarabad                            L
W atS orest Pla               Rei|ffc                                            I.L.M. Division                           Foes DivisionS i :
I: NPRMP      a
Kaslunir Forest                                  I L M Division                          a ~~~~~~~~~~~~Forest Diviso     si 
Schod_|_1                                                                       Kotli       j                       a   (South)               F       PMuzartaiabado
UliZzation  |                                         | ~~~~~~~~~Rangeland Divislon  |8S.1. 
Utilzaion    |Muzallarabad    |                                                                                                                   Mh rpur     u|
Prosecution                                                                    .eCenter                                                              Si. Frs
_ Section                                                                  Rangeead Cenlr 
MuzaWarabad                                                                                                                                         Rawalo
cafctW53349F



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of the Planning and Development Department
Additional Chief
Secretary
(Development)
I
Pnvatization and                              Director                     L
Reorganization Unit                             General                        Und                         AseEn ment
(Temporary)TUntAssm t
Agricufture                  Education                    Health                     Technical                    Eoonomic
and Industry                                             Services                      Affairs
cl kc\534        0
cakfic\W53349G



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24703
4573 m    74'                    A                      28 75          kon, b- ...... cld b, Tkl;h W,0ld13
A                         6281 m.s 
4~~~~~~~~~~4                                                   &.4 -dtn  '6 -35-*   29
^    t ^3zl ~~.01 ,.
ooo1 s   s                                              P A K I S T A A
|   ejf                                    NORTHERN RESOURCE~~~~~~~~495 
\~~~~44 m-           26.MNGMN  RJC
I~~~~~12 .'uQF A'(             -'I95
t~~~~~22                                          MANAEMEN  P<,-DSROJCT BUDRE
.*t    \  s.        B ~~~"A  G H"
zI RaWalkOA191 M.>
201 M,t 182 m        -                                           SEECE KIOMTESWNIIS
A  .                         Aprxmt                    A     ELEVTESN (mtes I3II
I~~~~~~~~~~~Ln of                                      STATE BOUNDA",,
<,,,,> ~ ~ Z             .11 oContro'
UM;                        ", N5    AFHA I TN,
_                                             \                 r IsLAMAs+DX,L~~~~~~ILE  II 
t    I R  P  tJ R  ' *             33~~         ~       ~~~~ 25  j0  Aprsr175
74-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,. .{
IKISTN TAIKI~ANRL19



