Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19957
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 28.8 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 2512-PAK)
PROJECT ID: P010421
L/C NUMBER: 25120
December 15, 1999
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 24, 1993)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.038
US$ 1.00 = Rs 26.27
At completion [June 1999]: US$ 1.00 = Rs 52.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A.JK          Azad Jammu and Kashrnir
ARCS          Audit Reporting and Compliance System
GAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DOA           Department of Agriculture
DOAH          Department of Animal Husbandry
DOF           Department of Forestry
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
GOAJK         Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
H1FTDP        Hill Farming Technical Development Project
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IBFDP         Integrated Hill Farming Development Project
IPM           Integrated Pest Management
MTR           Mid-term Review
NCS           National Conservation Strategy
NGJO          Non Governmental Organization
NRMP          Northern Resource Management Project
P&DD          Planning and Development Department
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PERI          Punjab Economic Research Institute
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SMU           Social Mobilization Unit
TP            Technical Package
VDC           Village Development Committee
WDC           Women Development Committee
SASRD         Rural Development Sector Unit, South Asia Region
Vice President:   Mieko Nishmizu
Country Manager/Director:  John Wall
Section Manager/Director:   Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Rashed ul Qayyum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   Project Data  ..........................................................1
2.   Principal Performance Ratings ..................1........................................1
3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  ............                                  2
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs  .......................................... .................3
5.   Major Factors Affecting hnplementation and Outcome .............................. ...............7
6.   Sustainability ...........................................................8
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance  .....................                           ......................................9
8.   Lessons Learned  ..........................................................  10
9.   Partner Comments  ..........................................................  11
10. Additional Information ..........................................................                                      12
Annex  1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .............................                         ................ 13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing  ..........................                         ................................ 15
Annex 3. Economics Costs and Benefits  .................................                         ......................... 17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs ..........................................................                                            21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs of Components ...........                                     ......... 22
Annex 6. Ratings for Bank and Borrower Performance  .................................... ............ 23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .................................                         ......................... 24
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results  ........................                          .................................. 25
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results ..................................                          ........................ 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010421                                        Project Name: NORTHERN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
Team Leader: Rashed Ul Qayyum                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: 12/17/99 11:35:45AM
December 16, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: NORTHERN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                       L/CNumber: 25120
Country/Department. PAKISTAN                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/01/90                                 Effective: 09/15/93            12/06/93
Appraisal:  02/15/1993                                 MTR: 08/12/96              08/12/96
Approval:  06/15/1993                               Closing.  12/31/98            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/GOVERNMENT OF AZAD KASHMIR
(AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT)
Other Partners: NOT APPLICABLE
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:      Sadiq Ahmed                                Philippe Nouvel
Sector Manager:       NA-pls edit Roles in SAP                   Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:   Rashed Ul Qayyum                           Guy Motha
ICR Primary Author:   Rashed Ul Qayyum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)                     ICR
Quality at Entry:                                                 S
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:.
3.11   The main objective was to provide for the sustainable and economically efficient use of land resources in
Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), which is one of the poorest and environmentally vulnerable areas of the country.
The objective was to be achieved through: (1) improving the policy framework that influences the use and
conservation of land resources; (2) restructuring and strengthening the main institutions that help manage and
protect AJK's land resources; and (3) testing programs where communities take management and financial
responsibility for planning and implementing those activities which contribute to the sustainable use of natural
resources.
3.12   The project objective, as set out, was clear. It emanated from a broad strategy developed for the hill areas
of AJK. The stxategy aimed at (i) increasing the productivity and incomes of the farming community and reducing
poverty, and (ii) developing and using natural resources in the hill areas of AJK in an economically sustainable
and ecologically sound manner. The project objective was realistic and achievable although project design was
complex because it had many components, sometimes with overlapping jurisdictions diffusing the lines of
responsibility. Nonetheless, the project was responsive to the circumstances prevailing in AJK as it focused on
development through grassroots participation. Policy change, on the one hand, in the form of subsidy removal on
production inputs, allowed market mechanisms to operate for better availability of inputs, thereby enhancing access
of users, particularly those of vulnerable groups in most areas. On the other hand, it induced a shift in the attitude
of public sector to make its services community oriented. Innovative features were built in the project design to
organize commrunities and link them to technical services and on-site training facilities of the public sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision was made.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) Policy Actions; (b) Institutional Strengthening [Departments of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry, andl Forestry]; (c) Other Institutional Strengthening; (d) Basic Technical Services; (e) Pilot Areas; and
(f) Improvement to Rural Roads.
3.3 Revised Components:.
Except for minor adjustments in the physical targets, no component was revised.
3.4 Quality at Entry.
The performance rating for quality at entry is not available. The ICR rating, however, is based on project's
consistency with the CAS, in particular with the hill areas development strategy. The Bank's safeguard policies,
to the extent applicable, were adhered to with one exception on the applicability of involuntary resettlement (OD
4.30) for rural road construction. It was noted at project completion that the government policy did not allow for
compensation of land acquired for roads although no case of involuntary displacement was reported. The project
did contribute to safeguards by promoting integrated pest management (OP 4.09), beneficiary participation in
forestry (OP 4.36), and on-farm soil conservation. Initial environmental assessment (OD 4.00) placed the project
in category B. Several features of the project aimed at improving the quality of environment, such as establishing
an oversight institutional mechanism for environmental examination of the public sector investments. The risk
areas identified during appraisal were realistic: such as slow formation of community participatory groups,
inadequate retums on investments, delays in the privatization of inputs and removal of subsidy. Specific measures
built into the project design, complemented by innovative approaches, helped in minimizing such risks.
-2 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.11    The project's main objective of providing for the sustainable and economically efficient use of land
resources has been largely met. The outcome is considered to be satisfactory because: (a) the policy framework has
been suitably modified, and production and distribution of farm inputs were transferred to the private sector; (b)
institutional strengthening was carried out by restructuring DOA and DOAH and shifting their mode of services
from unfocused advice and input sales to demand oriented farm advisory activities; (c) a community based
extension strategy was formulated based on diagnostic surveys conducted by agro-ecological regions; (d)social
forestry discipline was introduced in the DOF; (e) communities were successfully organized in the form of village
development committees (VDCs) in the pilot areas wherein response from the female population was equally
impressive; (f) the needed basic technical services were provided to the VDCs; and (g) road improvement works on
some 200 km of indigenous tracks were carried out. The improved roads will provide better access to social
infrastructure and services and create market led growth opportunities for the rural population.
4.12   An indication of the sustainable use of land resources is the visual evidence of increased household
fuelwood production and increased awareness of tree protection. Roadside fiielwood stalls have dwindled. Import
of fuelwood from Punjab has declined by 25% over the project period, according to DOF estimates. An impact
evaluation study revealed that the average number of trees per farm increased from 41 in 1992 to about 60 in 1998.
As a result, pressure on state forests for cutting conifer wood for fuel has reduced. The higher tree density would
reduce soil and water losses.
4.13    There is widespread recognition by the rural population, particularly in the pilot areas, that skills' training
has been of immense value. By virtue of training, for example, production of vegetables has increased, poultry
birds are being vaccinated by female activists, and forest tree nurseries are being established in the private sector.
Moreover, people have better access to bureaucracy and public sector technicians during the community meetings
and training sessions. Beneficiary survey and stakeholders' workshops (Annexes 8 and 9) also confirmed this
observation.
4.14   A study, carried out shortly before December 1998, compares selected socio-economic indicators with
those of the benchmark survey carried out in 1992 by the Punjab Economic Research Institute. Annex 8
summarizes the methodology and sample size of both the surveys. The study demonstrates that the project
contributed to the increased productivity and income of the rural households. The findings suggest that average
yield of all major agricultural crops has increased (18% for maize, 28% for wheat, and 18% for apples), resulting
in 8% higher net farm income per cultivated hectare. Fertilizer use went up too. The road improvement program
will also help alleviate poverty in the impact area.
4.15    The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project at completion is 16% as compared to 13% computed at
appraisal. The ERR is higher, despite shortfalls in some output indicators (Annex 1), because of improved
availability of farm inputs, more number of technical packages, and active participation of communities.
However, overall project impact on farm income is modest. Although productivity gains by the farming
community are noticeable, real net farm income, calculated on cultivated per hectare basis, increased by 8%.
Gender participation, incorporated on a pilot basis, was a success (para 4.29) although sustainability of the
program without a new project is uncertain. Community mobilization with full gender participation can, therefore,
be scaled up as a viable process for poverty alleviation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.21   There were shortfalls in meeting the targets of three activities under the agriculture component, one
activity under the livestock component, and two activities under the forestry component while full target were
- 3 -



achieved, or even exceeded, for all other activities. The main reason was that local counterpart rupee funds were
not available on time due to procedural and cash flow difficulties. The performance and outputs by components is
discussed below:
Agriculture    (US$ 2.7 million)
4.22    The re-organized services are operating more efficiently than before. The flatter structure has two main
branches: extension and technical services. Agricultural activities now focus on community orientation, private
sector promotion for the supply of inputs, better planning at the district level, and increased interaction with
NGOs. The public sector input supply functions have been abolished and the subsidy on seeds/plants phased out.
A seed testing laboratory has been established and is linked to the Federal seed certification system. It restricts the
public sector to regulatory and quality assurance functions. The Technical Packages (TPs) for extension messages
have doubled and are being formulated to address farmers'problems identified through diagnostic surveys.
Solutions are based on rationally planned and location specific adaptive research trials. The uptake of new or
improved technologies, particularly in the pilot areas, has led to enhanced vegetable, crop and fodder production,
orchard development, and better use of farm inputs. Other successful activities were integrated pest management
and bee keeping. The latter proved to be a popular income generating activity with the communities. An
agricultural research master plan was prepared which provides a five year research agenda for agriculture,
livestock, forestry and fisheries.
4.23    An on-farm soil conservation demonstration program, introduced through three low cost TPs, has proved
its usefulness. C)nly 90 demonstrations were installed against a target of 300 because of financial and staff
constraints. Farmers shared 40% cost. Model A, comprising physical soil conservation works, such as check dams
and terracing, was by far the most popular. An average of 39 demonstrations indicates an investment of Rs.
19,855 per model. Detailed studies on three sites showed a cost benefit ratio of 1:5.5 in the first year which, if
extrapolated over five years, increases to 1:6.3. Model B, which was a mixture of soil conservation works and
biological soil stabilization measures, had an average cost of Rs. 24,516 (9 observations) and a cost benefit ratio of
1:2.7 in the first year (1:3.8 in the longer run). Model C, comprising vegetative means only and an average cost of
Rs. 8,366, showed a cost benefit ratio of 1:5.9 in the longer run. Empirical data was not available on the level of
adoption of any of these packages. However, a general observation was that the cheapest package (Model C) was
the most widely adopted in one form or the other.
Animal Husbandry       (US$ 1.7 million)
4.24    As a result of project actions, DOAH has improved its animal health programs in preventive vaccination
and treatment against parasitic infestations. Fodder research program has resulted in a number of TPs for the
fodder deficient areas. DOAH also ran a crash training program for community members, which has so far yielded
some 3,000 training-days. A vaccination revolving fund was established (a project covenant) and is being operated
for the purchase of vaccines. About 0.57 million vaccinations were carried out against hemorrhagic septicemia
and black quarter, and 0.022 million vaccinations against enterotoxemia Animal production and extension
activities, however, remained weak and the artificial insemination program did not take off for the lack of funds
and equipment. GOAJK plans to make these facilities operational, in phases, from its normal budget. Civil works
comprising artificial insemination centers (10), veterinary dispensaries (12) and an auditorium plus a dormitory at
the Livestock Development Center were completed.
Forestry/Watershed Management          (US$ 4.5 million)
4.25    Watershied management activities consist of plantation establishment and soil conservation. More people
are now planting profitable and sustainable tree crops on their marginal and sub-marginal lands. The tree nursery
business has been privatized and the seedling subsidy abolished. A participatory approach is gradually becoming
the 'more acceptable' approach for carrying out the natural resource management activities. In the process, four
fuelwood- fodder tree species, namely robinia (Robinia pseudacacia), ailanthus (A ilanthus altissima), mannu (
Ulmus lavigata), and hybrid poplar have taken hold in AJK. Fuelwood stalls, a common sight in the past along the
-4 -



roadside and near habitations, are now rare; a proxy evidence that damage to coniferous forests to meet fuel
requirements has been curtailed.
4.26   The project area is the catchment of river Jhelum, which in turn feeds the Mangla reservoir. Any
sizable activity of soil conservation in the catchment area has implications on the reservoir's longevity. Soil
conservation measures implemented under the project included loose stone check dams, gabions, field terraces,
protection walls, and tree plantations. These works helped in trapping the washed soil or obviating loss of soil as a
result of stream bank cutting. It is estimated that as a result of about 10,000 ha of plantation and 0. I million cu. m.
of soil conservation structures, substantial savings would accrue in the form of land reclaimed and decreased
siltation of the reservoir. The sediment load of water entering the reservoir, monitored at Karot, has been reduced
from 59.8 tons/ha/year in 1992 to 56.8 tons/ha/year in 1998. At least 5% of this reduction is attributed to the
project (about 5.45% of the project area was treated). While these externalities are not built into the economic rate
of return, it underscores the nature of public benefits accruing from upstream watershed management.
4.27   Because of the inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funds, the physical targets were revised at
the time of mid term review. The revised targets for seedling production, plantation establishment, pasture
improvement, seed procurement, women nursery training, soil conservation works, and civil works (seed center
and forest school) were largely met. In forestry research, a number of field experiments were conducted and local
volume and weight tables for Robiniapseudacacia and Ailanthus altissima were prepared in collaboration with the
Pakistan Forest Institute, Peshawar.
Road Improvement Program    (US$ 18.8 million)
4.28   Improvement of 12 rural dirt roads in the districts of Poonch and Kotli, which include the five pilot areas,
was undertaken. On the basis of detailed designing and actual ground alignment, the length of the roads increased
from 165 km to 202 km. All roads except two, namely the Abbaspur-Plangy and Mohra-Dubsi roads, which are
located in the Poonch and Nakial sectors of the Line of Control, were completed by September 30, 1999. Progress
on these two roads was about 95% as black topping on 13 km sections could not be done. The quality of
construction improved during the extended project period following an IDA mission report in December 1998.
The quality was generally satisfactory.
Women in Development Program (WID) (US$ 0.4 million)
4.29   Forty Women Development Committees (WDCs), with 829 members, were established by the female
social organizers. It was a novel experience to hire female field staff by the government in the area of rural
development. The WID teams worked closely with line departments to impart training to WDC members, arrange
demonstrations and transmit technical advice. Training to WDC members was provided in vegetable gardening,
chick rearing, vocational training (such as cutting and sewing, etc.), poultry vaccination, forest nursery growing,
food preservation, and social mobilization. In addition, seeds, fruit and forest seedlings, poultry vaccine and
day-old chicks were distributed to WDCs on a cost sharing basis. The WID program worked under a handful of
organizational, financial and administrative constraints, which are common for a new set-up. It is uncertain if the
program would continue without a new project because of funding problems.
Pilot Areas and Social Mobilization Unit (SMU) (US$ 0.6 million)
4.29.1 Five pilot areas based on degraded sub-watersheds in Poonch and Kotli districts were selected Farmers
were expected to take full responsibility for the planning, execution, and financial management of the programs on
communal lands as they perceived such programs to fit into their priority of community development. Village
Development Committees (VDCs) were formed by a team consisting of one Coordinator and six social organizers
who were hired on contractual terms. This set up proved very effective because: (a) the staff were given better
salaries which attracted capable persons; and (b) being part of the Government, they were closer to the line
departments than an NGO could have been. Moreover, the initial team of dedicated individuals stayed long
enough to give the work a solid start.
- 5-



4.29.2 Sixty lVDCs were formed (27 male and 33 female) against a target of 20. Of these, 35 were found to be"
active" by project's internal monitoring system and are likely to continue beyond the project period. As verified
during the stakeholders workshops, indeed they were active after 9 months of closing of this component (Annex 8).
The rest are unlikely to sustain because they have held less than 50% of their scheduled meetings, attendance in
their meetings is poor, and are not making savings any more. Skills training of the community members has been
a strong point of'the program. About 1,083 person months of training was imparted in 117 training sessions,
mainly in the disciplines of agriculture, horticulture, livestock and poultry, forestry, vocational skills and social
organization. This observation was supported by the beneficiary survey and stakeholders workshops too (Annex 8
and 9). A number of physical infrastructure schemes were completed: 13 relating to drinking water supply; 6
vocational schools; and one water harvesting structure. The cost sharing between the project and beneficiaries was
60:40.
4.29.3 In the areas of social mobilization and participatory development, some pioneering work were done under
the project. All line departments use the VDCs, wherever they exist, as vehicles for carrying out their development
work. By doing so, they get full support of the people and, therefore, enhance sustainability. In order that the
social mobilizatilon continues in new areas and the existing VDCs are also not deprived of support, the SMU
should continue beyond project closing. As it is uncertain that the SMU would be transferred to the recurrent
budget, the work may be entrusted to an operational NGO. The experience of SMU nonetheless demonstrates that
beneficiary participation is a key to the success of sustainable natural resource management programs. Such
programs should be scaled up, provide social mobilization support for 5-10 years, and eventually transferred to the
communities.
Land Use Planning Unit (US$ 0.6 million)
4.29.4 The Land Use Planning Unit was transferred to the P&DD to make its services available to more users.
The Unit provided valuable support in mapping and land use classification. It has so far surveyed and mapped
6,052 sq. km (45%) out of the total land area of 13,297 sq. km of AJK. The Unit also prepared current land use,
land capability, recommended land use, and recommended integrated land use maps and plans for the five pilot
area sub-watersheds. The Unit acquired GIS (geographic information system) capability although its software was
yet to be arranged.
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies  (US$ 4.1 million)
4.29.5 The program of technical assistance, training and studies, aimed at improving the human resource base
and building in-house capacity was successfully completed. Against a total of 109 person months of technical
assistance, 105 person months (96%) were utilized. Overseas training and study tours of 108 staff months (96%)
were also utilized. Eight studies were carried out and 41 technical reports produced. Several workshops, held
during project implementation, discussed the outcome or applicability of these reports by specific disciplines.
Some examples which contributed to achieving the project objective were: (a) diagnostic surveys and blueprint for
community based extension; (b) preparation of agricultural research master plan; (c) improved TPs for fodder
production, apiculture, and IPM; (d) privatization of fertilizer and seed; and (e) forest seed collection and storage
techniques.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project encompassed multi-dimensional activities aimed at promoting a sustainable and economically efficient
use of land resources in AJK. These activities included development, dissemination, and application of technical
packages through adaptive research, extension services, on-farm demonstrations, and community participation.
The work program also included reforestation activities and soil conservation measures. Furthermore, rural roads
were provided to ensure that farmers are better served by public services, get timely delivery of inputs, and have
access to more p:rofitable marketing channels. The project also supported adoption of a market-friendly policy
framework for improving natural resource management. The benefits of improved policy framework and
- 6 -



institutional restructuring can not be easily captured in quantitative terms. Also, external benefits of reforestation
and soil conservation such as reduction in soil loss, landslides, and reduced downstream sedimentation cannot be
accurately quantified. Notwithstanding these difficulties, the economic rates of return have been calculated for the
components and project as a whole, on the basis of such quantifiable parameters as savings in vehicle operating
costs, incremental net farm income, and incremental value of fuelwood, timber and fodder. The economic rates of
return are given below. The rationale and assumptions used for the economic analysis are provided in Annex 3.
Activity                   ERR (SAR)        ERR (ICR)      NPV (Rs. in million)
Road Improvement                16%               15%                77
Farm Activities                 17%               16%                25
Reforestation                   16%               28%               178
Total Project Activities        13%               16%               198
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.51    Reorganization. The reorganization of DOA was a positive contribution of the project towards meeting
its development objective. It has oriented the support services from discharging input production and supply
functions to community based, demand driven farm advisory services. DOAH, after reorganization, has shifted its
focus to community based health and production services. In the forestry sector, the main objective of providing
for the Sustainable and economically efficient use of the land resources'is also beginning to be met. Satisfactory
performance of the PCU indicates that DOA&AH, its parent department, has the capacity to coordinate integrated
projects.
4.52    Environment Unit. This Unit, established in the P& DD, has done commendable work during the
project period. The Unit complemented the pioneering task of another nationwide IDA assisted Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project (Cr. 2383-PAK) which played a key role in bringing the
environmental awareness and establishing a regulatory framework in AJK too. An environmental survey of AJK
has been completed; environmental procedures and a manual of guidelines prepared; an Environmental Act, 1997
passed; and Environmental Protection Council and Environmental Protection Agency established. As
inter-sectoral coordination improves, the development programs are expected to be sensitive to environmental
concerns.
4.53    Social Mobilization Unit (SMU).  For the first time in the public sector of AJK, an NGO like
operation was ventured by establishing an SMU. The experience proved to be effective in many ways. The
approach adopted by the SMU was appropriate, already tested elsewhere by successful NGOs, and its staff won the
confidence of the communities it served. This platform induced the government's line agencies to enhance the
efficacy of their services, particularly in those areas where communities have been organized. However, the
operations of SMU faced constraints as highlighted in the stakeholders workshops (Annex 9). A majority opinion
was that SMU should continue for 2-3 years, it should be autonomous, or the job should be entrusted to a
dependable local NGO.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Climate has a direct effect on productivity. In forestry, the extended dry spell of 1998 adversely affected the
survival rate of the seedlings planted. It also caused forest fires. Productivity from agricultural lands was also
affected. Road works had to be intermittently disrupted on sections situated close to the Line of Control due to
- 7 -



cross border skinnishes. This particular reason persuaded the Bank to extend the roads component by six months
for reasons offorce majeure.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project demonstrated both the advantages of the continuity of the key staff, and the disadvantages due to the
lack of it. There were only two Project Directors during the project life while the Secretaries changed many times.
While the continuity of the Project Director contributed to the successes that the project achieved, the financial
issues relating to the inadequacy and timeliness of funds dragged on because of frequent changes of the Secretaries.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.31  Once budgeted, the flow of fimds from the PCU to the line agencies should have been smooth. It was not.
Therefore, it adversely affected some works, particularly those of the forestry, social mobilization and the
women-in-development programs. Forestry being seasonal, the lack of funds at the right time affected the whole
chain of seedling production, plantation establishment and plant care. In the case of SMU also, its credibility was
at stake when payments due were not made on time. Similarly, the staff of the WID program was often not paid
their salaries and allowances for months.
5.32    The PCU had its own accounting staff as well as staff seconded from the government auditors. The book
keeping was satisfactory. The annual audits was generally conducted on time although in certain years delays were
encountered in compiling or submitting the audit reports. There were no unqualified audit reports except for the
first year's (FY94) qualified-exception. ARCS data show no serious accountability issues even for this report.
There project did not experience any misprocurement. Delays in procurement, however, led to slow disbursements.
End use audit of randomly selected items procured, conducted by an independent firm, showed generally
satisfactory use.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project expenditure was Rs. 1,357 million, or about US$ 32.6 million. The appraisal estimate was Rs.
1,057 million in local currency, or about US$ 36 million. Therefore, local currency indicated a cost overrun of
28% which was due to local currency devaluation over the project period. However, in dollar terms, total cost was
90% of the appraisal estimate. Of the total cost, IDA financed 79% and GOAJK 21% which included 4%
financing by the communities. IDA disbursed US$ 25.4 million as of December 15, 1999.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.11  The project brought about numerous policy and institutional changes. For example, production and
distribution of inputs by the public sector was privatized. Subsidies on vegetable and potato seed, and fruit and tree
seedlings were abolished. The benefits accruing to the community due to these changes can disappear in no time if
the changes made were reversed. GOAJK is likely to preserve these changes because of improved service delivery.
Secondly, the soci al mobilization approach has shown a way to reach the communities effectively. A few NGOs, or
cluster VDCs, are operating in the project area. The communities are willing to take over the functions of SMU
once they build an in-house capacity. Although sustainability of SMU, or WID, is uncertain without further donor
support, the impact area served by these Units is a fraction of the total project area. These initiatives show
successful pilots which should be scaled up to increase the reach and effectivity of future programs.
6.12  It should be noted that GOAJK allocated a sum of Rs. 28.3 million from its own resources for sustaining
most project activities during the extended project period in 1999. With this amount, the liabilities of the
DOA&AH and Land Use Planning Unit were met, forestry plantations maintained, and the entire expenditure on
- 8 -



salaries and operating costs was made possible because IDA closed these components as per original schedule. For
sustaining project activities over the next two years, a development scheme for an amount of Rs. 17.3 million was
approved in September 1999, initially, for one year. The roads built under the project will be maintained under
government's recurrent budget once the warranty period of contractors is over. GOAJK's recurrent budget
indicates that Rs. 75,000/km are provided annually for the repair and maintenance works, part of which meets the
maintenance cost of new roads. However, this amount is insufficient for repairing 7-10 year older roads which
require about Rs 225,000/km annually. Therefore, benefits of investments made are likely to be sustained in the
short term. Sustainability in the longer term will, however, depend on government continuing its policy to involve
communities in the development process and adequately funding the maintenance of older roads.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
GOAJK has shown sufficient commitment to provide for the continuance of key activities in the post-project period
as it ensures a smooth transition to regular operations. Actions undertaken in this regard include: (i) continuing
with a suitable organizational structure for the maintenance of completed works; (ii) assuring that subsidies will
not be reintroduced; (iii) continuing with the policy of encouraging private farmer nurseries; (iv) providing a
broader base to the Land Use Planning Unit by transferring it to P&DD; and (v) continuing with social
mobilization activities, at least in the short run. GOAJK has approved a small project for the transition period, and
has already requested for Bank's assistance in a new project. As the development agenda is far from complete,
GOAJK wishes to supplement its regular operations with scaling up successful pilot operations based on
community participation. As such, it wishes to expand the experiences gained in the pilot areas to several other
sub-watersheds.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank during preparation, appraisal and subsequent processing of the project has generally
been satisfactory. At appraisal, coordination between the several line agencies and implementation capacity within
the spearhead Department were focused upon. As a result, strengthening measures were built into the project
design. In hind sight, it appears that sufficient attention was not given to some aspects of the Bank's safeguard
policies. For instance, the lack of land compensation for rural road construction was not taken up during appraisal
although GOAJK issued "non-compensation" notification in early 1992. There was no discussion in the appraisal
document on the implication of such government policy on the involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30).
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank staff built a close relationship with project staff resulting in frequent meetings in between supervision
missions which helped resolve technical and disbursement issues rather quickly. Such meetings became more
productive after the task management responsibility was transferred to the Islamabad Field Office. IDA missions
were regular, a little less frequent in the first four years (10 month interval) but duly supported by informal site
visits and implementation assistance from the Field Office staff. This enabled frequent contact with the
Government as well as on-site dialogue with communities. Often, it resulted in quick decision making. The
supervision missions generally had the required expertise to handle diverse issues. No deviation from the Bank
policies and procedures was generally found. In a few cases where land was acquired for road construction,
community members were more than willing to give right of the way. Procurement and financial management
were generally satisfactory except for occasional delays. In the absence of procurement or financial management
related issues, missions did not include such specialists. However, since the road component was the largest in
financial terms, participation of an engineer should have been frequent in the supervision missions. It may have
helped in addressing the issues which contributed to implementation delays in roads construction.
-9-



7.3 Overall Bank performance.
The overall performance of the Bank has been satisfactory. Attention was paid to lessons learned from the
preceding operations as well as basic points of a development strategy in hilly areas were kept in mind.
Institutional change was a difficult task, particularly reorganization of the DOA&AH. Weaning away the officials
from inputs distribution activities to service delivery was not easy. It was accomplished because of a good project
preparation and Bank's commitment to reach the ultimate beneficiaries. The Bank also initiated a community
mobilization program, albeit on a pilot scale, for the rural population to be seen as equal partners in development.
The innovative design of this pilot component in effecting social change was conceived in consultation with
experienced NGOs and practitioners. Performance of the Bank in overcoming government officials' initial apathy
to the contemplated change was satisfactory. The Bank paid adequate attention to strengthen the coordination
between the various line agencies by providing for staff, equipment and technical assistance to the PCU/line
agencies where implementation capacity was found lacking. However, the Bank should have proactively taken up
the issue of persistent local budgetary shortfalls with the Borrower. It is unclear though whether any special effort
would have met with success given the financial straits the country was in.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
While the Borrower did not have adequate capacity to prepare the project, it satisfactorily responded to the needs of
technical assistance preparation team. Cooperation from the line agencies and P&DD was excellent and always
forward looking.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The project was provided with staff, as required; technical assistance and overseas training was fully utilized; the
required studies were carried out; vehicles and equipment were procured, as required; and all buildings were
completed. This demonstrated government's strong commitment to the project and regular oversight provided by
the Project Steering Committee. The only component which lagged behind was the road component. Also,
because of cash flow problems, GOAJK was unable to provide the required funds on time resulting in the
reduction of a few physical targets.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Four line agencies, spearheaded by the DOA&AH, were responsible for project implementation. Although
performance varied from agency to agency, a major attribute of project's success has been the continuity of the
Project Director. The role of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was positive and constructive. The Forest
Department, the only agency outside the direct control of PCU, also performed well. Given the complexity of the
project and sensitivity of policy changes, the implementing agency performance can be rated as highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Generally satisfactory. In some areas, highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(a) There is a needfor long-term commitment by donors and borrowersfor supporting this kind ofproject. It
came out clearly at the stakeholders workshops too that instead of an one-shot intervention, support should be
planned as a series of follow-on projects.
(b) Staff continuity, particularly in key positions, decidedly pays off. Much of the project success is attributable
to the fact that this project had one good Project Director during most of the project period.
- 10-



(c) Timely release is criticalfor those activities which are seasonal, or which involve community participation.
Project funds were not released in adequate amounts, or on time, by the GOAJK. If funds are not released well
before the planting season for forestry works and pasture development, for instance, the whole year is lost.
Project's stakeholders recommended that annual requirements for counterpart funds should be deposited into a
project account at the beginning of a financial year (Annex 9).
(d) The Bank should ensure that tender documentsfor procurement of goods, services and civil works are
prepared and procurement process is initiated before a project is approved. The supervisory consultants for the
road construction, for example, should have been on board by Credit effectiveness. It would have helped in
completing the roads by the original closing date. An important lesson, however, is on the role and performance of
supervisory/design consultants as the quality of road construction work has been much better than the earlier
project (IHFDP).
(e) Private entrepreneurs readily enter a subsidy free environment. Once subsidies were withdrawn, it took no
time for private forest tree nurseries to flourish in competition with the Forest Department nurseries. The reversal
can be as quick if the subsidy is reintroduced. The stakeholders workshops reinforced an important implication of
this lesson that the beneficiaries do not resist removal of subsidies provided they are preceded, or accompanied, by
an improved delivery of support services and inputs leading to productivity enhancing innovations.
(f) For the conservation of natural resources, one must work through communities. With awareness raising,
they assume protection responsibility hand in hand with the line departments. The experience of establishing a
social mobilization unit (SMU) in the government set-up has had a mixed impact. While it helped in breaking the
traditional public sector resistance to grassroots mobilization, the actual operations of the SMU were, at times,
hampered by the rigid government system. The institutional model of SMU can be further improved by adapting
an NGO type operational framework.
(g) Community members value training. A successful example of the training was a quick adoption of poultry
vaccination, particularly by the female community members. It provided them with an income generating
opportunity and reduced their dependence on the government vaccinators. It also increased understanding and
harmony between the communities and the relevant line department. Similar examples were noted in other skills.
To consolidate these gains, support from social organizers should continue for a longer period.
(h) Extension services can be immensely useful in disseminating knowledge about good natural resource
management practices. Women groups are equally receptive in taking up the knowledge. It was observed that if
trained farmers are sufficiently motivated to further spread this knowledge within their communities, substantial
gains in productivity can be made.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project has been successful in achieving its objectives. Important lessons leamed, including achievements,
are: (a) DOA&AH have been restructured, along functional lines to focus on the core areas of technology
development and dissemination; (b) Forestry Department was reorganized and a social forestry wing created in it;
(c) DOA&AH have given up inputs distribution and production functions. All vegetable production farms and fruit
plant nurseries have been privatized; (d) staff have been re-trained and surplus staff, formerly involved in inputs
production and distribution (about 200 persons), have been accommodated through re-deployment and
retrenchment; (e) subsides on inputs to farmers have been completed removed, including subsidies on fruit plants,
vegetable seed and forests tree seedlings. A program of cash recovery of vaccines was introduced; (f) construction
and renovation of 66 buildings has been undertaken and completed; (g) construction design of 202 km farm to
market roads has been completed, construction contracts have been awarded to contractors and most of the roads
are close to completion; (h) a total of 105 staff-months of intemational consultancy has been utilized and 41
documents, reports and manuals have been produced in all disciplines (sub-disciplines of agriculture, livestock,
forestry and economics specified); (i) eight studies were undertaken and completed (some titles mentioned in
-11-



Annex 7); () a total of 50 staff members were sent abroad for training; and (k) an SMU has been established with
has the autonorny and salary structure of an NGO. Staff experienced in operating NGOs were hired to handle the
SMU along professional lines and provide the staff of the line departments training and experience in social
organization and community mobilization. This model has been very successful and the staff of development
projects from other areas have been visiting to study and adopt it.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments were obtained from stakeholders during the workshops held in October 1999. The results are presented
in Annex 9. This feature of the intensive learning module has added to the value of the ICR. The workshops
provided forum for validation, confirmation, difference of opinion, and additional insights to several
implementation aspects, particularly those which related to the outcome and lessons drawn.
10. Additional Information
Figures shown against the sub-heading in chapter 4 are the actual cost for a given set of activities. These figures
can be mutually exclusive, and cannot be added up to arrive at total project cost. Annex 2 shows project costs by
component.
- 12-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Input production and distrbution activities    Policy framework modified as required. All  Achieved (as reported in left column)
carried out by the Departments of     actions for the transfer of input production
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry (DOA&AH)  and distribution activities were completed.
and Forestry are privatized and these  Institutional restructuring was canied out as
Departments are reorganized/restructured.  planned at appraisal.
Excess staff in the DOA&AH as a result of  290 staff re-deployed. Privatization and  Achieved (as reported in left column).
privatizing the inputs distribution is  Reorganization Unit was created, the task   Available TPs increased from 20 (initially) to
redeployed to areas of technology generation was accomplished, and the Unit disbanded. 45 (peak) in later years. Demand-drven
and transfer.                         Attention paid to producing Technical  community extension services are evolving
Packages (TPs) based on diagnostic    for better technology transfer.
surveys.
Subsidies on inputs like fertilizers, potato and All subsidies eliminated in phases: fertilizer  Achieved (as reported in left column)
vegetable seed, fruit seedlings and forestry  and seed distrbution in two years; potato
trees seedlings are eliminated in a phased   seed production in three years; vegetable
manner.                               seed production farms, fruit and forestry
seedling nurseries in five years; and poultry
vaccination in three years.
Farmers take responsibility for planning,  60 village development committees (VDCs)  Over 2,600 households were mobilized into
execution and financial management of  established in the pilot areas demonstrate   60 VDCs, 55% of which were female. They
natural resources in private and community  farmers' active participation in the natural    generated Rs 1.2 million as savings. About
lands of the pilot areas.             resource management and income         58% VDCs were rated as active at project's
generating activities.                end. Net household income increased by
12.5% (real terms) in the pilot areas as
compared to 8% in the overall project area.
From the baseline of a socio-economic  Information collected from 72 farm    Crops yields increased by: 18% for maize;
survey of AJK carried out in 1992, measure  households, randomly selected from 48  28% for wheat; and 34% for rce.
impact of the following indicators in the  villages included in the 1992 survey.  No major disease outbreak reported. Gross
project area and/or pilot areas:                                             income from livestock increased by 30% in
real terms.
Increase in crop yields             Interim reports was being compiled.   Farm household gross income increased by
Better disease control for cattle; higher                                  14%, and net income by 8% in reai terms.
income from livestock                                                     Farm tree density increased by 47%
Increase in famn household income                                         (average: 41 trees/farm to 60)
Increase in fuel wood production                                          About 2,000 cfVha fuelwood to be realized in
Community participation in development                                    30 years cycle from incremental area.
activities.                                                                Several communities successfully mobilized
for planning, executing and managing their
development schemes.
Output Indicators:
Agriculture: (absolute numbers)       Original targets* (as shown in SAR)    Actual (% achievement)
Demonstration plots                  2,886                                 2,150 (74)
Adaptive research trials               250                                   102 (42)
On-farm soil conservation demons.      300                                    90 (30)
Livestock:
Vaccination (HS&BQ), No.             510,000                                570,000 (112)
Vaccination (Enterotoxemia), No      148,900                                 22,000  (15)-- Outbreaks were below
economic threshold
Forestry:
Plantations established, ha.          9,400**                               9,023 (96)
Pastures developed, ha.                977                                    557 (57)
Soil conservation structures, '000 cu. mt.    247                             111 (45)
- 13 -



Soaal mobilization:
Village Dev. Committees, No.         20                                  60 (300)
Women Dev. Committees, No.          00 (no projection made initially)    40 (100)
Land Use Planning:
Land use maps for pilot areas, ha.  22,467                             22,467 (100)
Road Improvement:
Length of 12 new roads, km.          202.*.                              189 (94)
*       Original targets are taken from the SAR's cost tables.
**      There were very few changes made during the project implementation. For instances, target for forestry
plantation was reduced at mid-term review from 15,500 ha to 9,400 ha because of funding constraints. The
reduction in on-farm soil conservation demos and soil conservation structures was envisaged but not quantified.
Road length increased from 165 km envisaged at appraisal to 202 km in last PSR because results of
detailed alignment at survey and design stage and actual measurement were available at last PSR stage.
'End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActualULatest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US $million     US $milfion
Institutional Restructuring and Support                  13.29              8.26            62
Basic Technical Services                                  6.97             4.91             70
Road Improvement                                          8.45             18.77           222
Pilot Areas                                               1.86              0.63             33
Total Baseline Cost                                      30.57            32.57
Physical Contingencies                                   2.96
Price Contingencies                                      2.47
Total Project Costs                 36.00            32.57
Total Financing Required                 36.00             32.57
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category       fee          IcB       Mthod             N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          11.60         5.70          1.80          19.10
(0.00)       (9.30)         (5.30)       (0.00)        (14.60)
2. Goods                      3.30           0.00         2.40          0.00          5.70
(2.20)        (0.00)       (1.90)        (0.00)         (4.10)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          4.20          0.00          4.20
Techncial Assistance          (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.00)       (0.00)         (4.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         0.90          0.00          0.90
Training and Studies         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.90)        (0.00)        (0.90)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         6.10          0.00          6.10
Incremental staff and        (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.20)       (0.00)         (5.20)
operating costs
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                       3.30         11.60         19.30          1.80         36.00
(2.20)        (9.30)       (17.30)       (0.00)        (28.80)
Works include civil and field works; Goods include vehicles, equipment and materials.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category       ICB           NC1NBF.                                Ttal Cost
1. Works                      0.00          18.87         2.24          1.32          22.43
(0.00)       (15.10)        (1.79)       (0.00)        (16.89)
2. Goods                      0.85           0.62         0.00          0.00           1.47
(0.85)        (0.53)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.38)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         3.67          0.00          3.67
Techncial Assistance          (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.67)        (0.00)        (3.67)
- 15 -



4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00            0.39            0.00             0.39
Training and Studies               (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.39)          (0.00)           (0.39)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            4.61             0.00            4.61
Incremental staff and              (0.00)           (0.00)          (3.83)          (0.00)           (3.83)
operating costs               .
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            0.85            19.49           10.91            1.32            32.57
.___________________ - (0.85)      (15.63)          (9.68)          (0.00)          (26.16)
Works include civil and field works; Goods include vehicles, equipment and materials.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million eq ivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component                Ap raisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Institutional Restructuiring    12.30  2.30       0.80        6.38       1.13       0.75      51.9   49.1    93.7
and Support
Basic Technical Services    6.50       1.30       0.30        3.79       0.67       0.45      58.3    51.5   150.0
Road Improvement            8.20       2.00       0.00       15.02       3.75       0.00     183.2  187.5   0.0
Pilot Areas                 1.80       0.10       0.40        0.46       0.05       0.13      25.6    50.0   32.5
TOTAL PROJECT              28.80       5.70        1.50      25.64       5.60       1.32      89.0    98.2    88.0
Confinancier (CoF) means contributions by the communities.
- 16-



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
A.      Production Impact
Agriculture and Livestock
1.     The agriculture and livestock components of the project consisted of multifarious activities aimed at
enhancing agricultural productivity and net farm income. These activities included development, dissemination,
and application of profitable technical packages through adaptive research, extension services, on-farm
demonstrations, and community participation. Particular emphasis was also placed on introducing better farm
management practices, and cost-effective soil conservation methods. The nature of these project activities makes it
difficult to isolate their impact on agricultural productivity. Notwithstanding this, an impact evaluation study has
provided an assessment of the project activities on agricultural productivity, using the 'before and after the project"
indicators in the project impact area. The study reported a positive impact of the project on yields of all major
crops. The production impacts of agricultural activities of the project on major crops in Poonch and Kotli districts,
termed as concentrated impact area of the project, are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Production Impact of Agricultural Activities on Major Crops
'000' tons
Production            Without Project        With Project (year 5)    Incremental Production
Maize                              53.85                    63.46                     9.61
Wheat                              41.31                    52.84                     11.53
Rice                               2.49                     3.35                      0.86
The above Table shows that the project has contributed to an incremental production of 9.61 thousand tons of
maize, 11.53 thousand tons of wheat, and 0.86 thousand tons of rice.
2.     Owing to increase in agricultural productivity, net farm income of farm households increased. The impact
evaluation study reported that net farm income per cultivated hectare, in constant prices, increased from Rs. 7,165
in 'Without project" scenario to Rs. 7,763 in "with project" scenario, depicting an increase of 8.3 percent in real
net farm income per cultivated hectare.
3.     The livestock development and research activities have focused on introducing improved breeds of
animals in the livestock population of AJK. As a result of these activities, about 12% of livestock holdings are
reported to be of high milk yielding variety. The production of milk corresponding to 'with project" case is
estimated to be 736 million liters, as against 567 million liters for the 'Without project" case, reflecting an
incremental milk production of 169 million liters.
Forestry
4.     Under the forestry component, 1809, 5181, and 2033 hectares have been planted respectively under
coniferous species, fuelwood, and fuelwood cum pasture plantations. The data on production of forestry component
corresponding to With project'and Without project'scenarios are provided in Table 2.
Table 2:  Production Impact of Re-forestation
Production                      Without Project            With Project
Fuelwood (30-year cycle) (million cft)                 Negligible                  10.55
Timber (120-year cycle) (million cft)
Small wood                                                                    5.73
Timber                                                                       60.08
Fodder (30-year cycle) (million tons)             1.31 (SAR estimate)              2.14
- 17 -



Road Improvement
5.     The quantifiable benefits of road improvement component are computed on the basis of savings in vehicle
operating costs for various types of vehicle. For a project life of 20 years for road improvement component, the
total benefits of road improvement are estimated at Rs. 2134.27 million.
B. Economic Rates of Return
6.     Economic rates of return have been calculated for agriculture and livestock, road improvement, and
forestry components as well as for the project as a whole. A project life of 20 years is assumed for agriculture and
road improvement components. Project life for the forestry component is assumed to be 30 years for fuelwood and
fuelwood cum pasture plantations, and 120 years for coniferous species. The economic rates of return for various
project activities are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: Economic Rates of Return
Activity                                 SAR                          ICR
Road Improvement                                             16 %                        15 %
Farm Activities (Agriculture and Livestock)                  17 %                         16%
Reforestation                                                16 %                        28 %
Total Project Activities                                    13 %                         16 %
7.     The economic rate of return for the road improvement component is calculated on the basis of savings in
vehicle operating costs for various types of vehicles. The vehicle operating costs for existing and improved roads
have been calculated according to the National Transport Research Center's guidelines. The average daily traffic
(ADT) for passenger vehicles is obtained from the study by project consultants on roads. The ADT for goods and
passenger traffic has been estimated on the basis of road connectivity to other inter-district roads, road influence
area and its population, yearly requirements for consumption items and agricultural inputs, and agricultural
production in the area. Benefits to generated traffic are valued at half the rate of normal traffic. Overall net
benefits have been computed collectively for all the 12 roads and all project costs for the road improvement
component as well as annual road maintenance costs (Rs. 75,000/km) have been included in the analysis.
8.     The economic rate of return for re-forestation activities is based on the assumption that there was no
production of fuelwood and timber in the 'Without project"case. Some 9,000 hectare of denuded wasteland
planted during the project would not have been taken up by any agency, or by communities, and it would have
continued to be overgrazed. The benefits from such lands would be far less than the degradation caused if there
were no project. Production of fuelwood, and timber in the 'With project" case is estimated by using the standard
yields table of the forestry department. Correction has been made for assessing the yield of timber based on a
realistic 120 year cycle (instead of 30 year cycle used in the SAR). The value of incremental output under each
type of plantation is aggregated to arrive at total benefits under the forestry component.
9.     For the fann activities which comprise agriculture and livestock activities, the economic rate of return is
calculated on the basis of net farm income analysis reported in the impact evaluation study. According to this
study, net incremental farm income coming from field crops, horticultural, livestock, and other farm activities
show an increase of Rs. 598 per cultivated hectare in real terms. Since the project area was taken to be entire AJK
(cultivated area = 172,821 hectares) where policy changes (withdrawal of subsidies and reorganization of line
departments) were introduced, it is assumed that 10% of this incremental benefits (Rs. 10.3 69 million) were due to
the project. Furthernore, in the case of Kotli and Poonch districts (cultivated area = 62,691 hectares) where no
other donor assisted project operated before or during the tenure of this project, it is assumed that 50% of the net
incremental farm income could be attributed to the project (Rs. 18.745 million). These two districts, or the
concentrated project impact area, were the recipient of all rural roads, social mobilization unit's entire work,
community based extension services, and the bulk of skills training. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that
without the project, the benefits may have been only half due mainly to diffusion of knowledge and technologies
from the neighboring districts as well as through normal efforts of the line agencies. Based on these assumptions,
- 1 8-



the project contributed to net annual benefits of Rs. 29.11 million (10.369 + 18.745).
10.    The economic rate of return for the whole project accounts for all project costs and is based on aggregate
benefits under the road improvement, forestry, and agriculture and livestock components.
11.    Other Assumptions
(a) All costs and benefits have been expressed in constant FY98 prices. Project cost stream has been converted into
FY98 prices by using MUV indices.
(b) All investment and operating expenses have been taken into account.
(c) For road improvement component, average daily traffic is assumed to grow at a rate of 5 % per annum.
(d) Financial prices of non-traded commodities have been converted into economic prices by using a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9.
(e) All benefits are assumed to start at project year 5.
(f) The production of milk corresponding to 'without project" case is estimated at the rates of 8 liters/day and 5
liters/day respectively for buffaloes and cows. In the 'with project" scenario, a three-fold increase in these rates is
applied to 12 % of the milking herd, the latter being 40 % of the livestock population. Yearly milk output is based
on a production cycle of 200 days.
C.      Sensitivity Analysis
12.    A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to test the sensitivity of ERRs to altemative assumptions. The
results of sensitivity analysis are reported in Table 4.
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
Activity                         Assumption                       ERR for Activity    ERR for Project
Road Improvement  Project Life of 30 years                                    18%                 18%
Road Improvement  Average Daily Traffic increases at 7 % per annum.           18%                 18%
Road Improvement   Average Daily Traffic increases at 3 % per annum.          13%                 15%
Road Improvement  Delay of 1 year in benefits accrual.                        12%                 15%
Farm Activities    A 25 % reduction in the project impact area.               13%                 16%
Farm Activities    A 10 % increase in incremental net farm income.            17%                 16%
13.    The sensitivity analysis shows that ERRs for the whole project range between 15 % and 18 %
corresponding to alternative assumptions about the project life, average daily traffic, project impact area, and
incremental net farm income. A 30-year project life for the road improvement component yields an ERR of 18%.
If the average daily traffic (ADT) is assumed to grow at a rate of 7% per annum, ERR for road improvement is still
18%. A reduction in the annual growth rate of ADT to 3% causes the ERR for road improvement to decline to
13%. The ERR for the roads reduces to 12% if there is a one-year delay in benefits accrual. A 25% reduction in
the project impact area yields an ERR of 13% for agricultural activities. A 10% increase in net farm income
results in an ERR of 17% for the farm activities.
14.    A reduction of 10% in the overall benefits, by major activity, and for the whole project would decrease the
ERR to 14%, as shown in Table 4-A below, which is still higher than the 12% opportunity cost of the capital. The
ERR falls to 10% in the very unlikely scenario of 30% reduction in overall benefits.
Table 4-A: Sensitivity Analysis with 10% Decrease in Benefits
Activity                          ERR for Activity    ERR for Whole Project
Road improvement                                              13%                    15%
Farm Activities                                               14%                    16%
Reforestation                                                 26%                    16%
Whole Project                                                                        14%
Whole Project, with 20% decrease in benefits                                         12%
Whole Project, with 30% decrease in benefits                                         10%
-19-.



D.      Financial and Economic Prices
15.    Table 5 reports financial and economic prices used in the analysis.
Table 5: Financial and Economic Prices
P'roduct                        Financial Price                     Economic Price
Fuelwood                                         Rs. 2/kg                           Rs. 1.8/kg
Small wood                                      Rs. 92/cft                          Rs. 82.8/cft
Timber                                          Rs. 115/cft                        Rs. 103.5/cft
Fodder                                          Rs. 1.25/kg                         Rs. 1.13/kg
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/90                   7   Agr, Econ, For, Inst. Sp, Eng,
Ws
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/92                   8   Agr, Econ, For, Inst. Sp,
Eng, 2 Com Sp.
03/93                   3   Agr, Econ, For.
Supervision
01/94                   3   Econ, For, Inst. Sp                  S                 S
09/94                  3   Agr, Econ, For                       S                 S
08/95                   3   Agr, Econ, For                       S                 S
07/96                   5   Agr, Econ, For, Lsk Sp, WS           S                 S
11/97                   2   Agr, Econ                            S                S
06/98*                  2   Agr, For                             S                 S
12/98*                  5   Agr, Econ, For, Eng, ACS             S                S
06/99*                  3   Agr, Econ, For                       S                 S
ICR
12/98                   4   Agr, Econ, For, Eng, ACS             S                 S
06/99                   3   Agr, Econ, For                       S                 S
Agr = Agriculturist, Econ  Economist, For = Forester, Inst. Sp = Institutional Specialist, Eng  Engineer, WS
Women Sp., Com Sp = Community Development Sp, Lsk Sp = Livestock Specialist, ACS - Administrative &
Client Support Staff.
Mission dates with asterik (*) indicate supervision missions inititated from the Field Office.
Rating for the identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation stages is not available.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USs (,O00)
Identification/Preparation             160.0                       113.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   54.4                      140.00
Supervision                            127.2                       285.6
ICR                                     NA*                         NA*
Total                                  341.6                       538.6
* Resources used for ICR are merged in supervision. Actuals as of 12/99.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
X Physical                                  OH *SUOM ON ONA
N Financial                                 OH OSUOM ON ONA
Z Institutional Development                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                             0 H  O SU  *M  0 N  0 NA
Social
* PovertyReduction                   O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Gender                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
I Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                  0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Note: Social development objective of poverty reduction and gender participation was limited to the pilot
areas and 4 WII) (women-in-development) teams only which covered a fraction of the total project area.
Average income increase in such areas during the project period was reported to be around 19% (see Anriex
8).
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performace                                  Rating
N Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
3 Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformace                               Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                  0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
3 Overall                                            O HS 0 S   0 U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
7.1   The following studies and/or documents were consulted. Most of the studies were completed under the
project and copies are available with the GOAJk and the Bank:
Studies/Reports carried out by GOAJK
I.     Participatory Diagnostic Rural Surveys
2.     Mid Term Evaluation of the Northern Resource Management Project (NRMP)
3.     Privatization of Agricultural Inputs with Special Reference to Fertilizers
4.     WID Design Document
5.     Natural Resource and Environmental Survey of AJK
6.     Land Use and Social Forestry Policy
7.     Assessrnent of Water Resources and Development of Irrigation Potential
8.     Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs): 1994 to 1998
9.     Technical Reports produced by consultants and project staff [over 40 reports]
Documents/Reports of the Bank
1.     Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project: 1993-1999.
2.     Project Files in the Islamabad Field Office: Black Books and Chron. files (Cr. 2512-PAK)
2.     Staff Appraisal Report/legal documents [DCA/Project Agreement] of the project: 1993.
3.     Bank's Operational Manual
4.     Guidelines for Preparing ICRs (June 1999)
- 24 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A.  Earlier Beneficiary Surveys
I.    In 1992, a statewide socio-economic survey was carried out in AJK by the Punjab Economic Research
Institute staff. This served as a benchmark for the December 1998 impact evaluation survey whose purpose was to
assess, with particular reference to the NRMP, the changes that had taken place since the project inception in
selected socio-economic indicators. Both surveys were conducted using a four stage (agro-ecological zone, tehsil,
village and operational household) stratified sampling technique but with some differences. Two major differences
were that, in the 1998 survey, only 48 villages out of the original 96 were randomly selected (project was
concentrated in 4 of the 8 districts of AJK), and that the representation in the survey sample from the NRMP
villages was four times higher than the other villages. The key findings of the impact evaluation survey were: (i)
significant increase in the average yield of major cereal (17.8%-34.4%) and horticulture (2.7%-31.1%) crops; (ii)
average gross farm income increased by 14% on the basis of 1998 prices, and (iii) the net farm household income
increased by 21.5% in nominal terms.
B.     Beneficiary Survey of Pilot Areas
2.     The purpose and scope of this survey, conducted in October 1999, was entirely different. Firstly, since
this natural resource management project was the first of its kind in Pakistan which introduced beneficiary
participation, albeit on a pilot basis, for its implementation. Therefore, the survey was designed to inter alia
determine how far this new approach to project implementation had succeeded. Secondly, it focused only on the
five pilot areas of the project representing 2.5% of the AJK population. The outcome of this and earlier surveys
was discussed at the two Stakeholder Workshops (Annex 9) held at Muzaffarabad on October 21 and Rawalakot on
October 23, 1999.
Methodology
3 .    A 3-stage random sampling was done to select respondents from four of the five pilot areas; random
selection of 1-4 Village Development Committees (VDCs) from each pilot area; and random selection, subject to
availability, of 2-5 respondents from each VDC. In this manner, 10 VDCs (6 male and 4 female) and 41 persons
were selected for interviewing from the 36 VDCs which still continue to work nine months after project's closing of
the major components. Information was collected on the basis of a questionnaire, which was administered in local
languages by the local staff of the UNDP s Area Development Project for South AJK, and through group
interviews and discussions with VDC members. Means of all responses were graded on a scale of I to 5, as
follows: poor - mean response from 1.0 to 2.4; satisfactory - 2.5 to 3.4; highly satisfactory - 3.5 to 4.4; and
excellent - 4.5 to 5.0.
Results
4.     Fulfillment of Community Needs On the whole, the project met the community needs to the'
satisfactory'level with a mean response of 3.4. The mean response of male respondents was 3.54 (highly
satisfactory) and that of female respondents, 3.2 (satisfactory). All needs, obviously, were not met. However, the
project was able to demonstrate to beneficiaries the ways of determining and fulfilling community needs. In this
regard, the mean response was highly satisfactory'(male score, 3.8 and female score, 3.5). The survey also
revealed that many VDCs of the pilot areas were in the process of getting together under an apex body each. They
are aiming to form an overall umbrella NGO, or a federation of VDCs, thus providing themselves with fora that
can establish linkages with donors and line agencies for meeting their future needs.
5.     Effectivity of the Project The overall effectivity of the project in terms of improvement in quality of life
is rated as atisfactory'with a mean score of 3.07 (male, 3.0 and female, 3.2). Average increase in income during
the project period was reported to be 18.7% (male, 18.3% and female, 19.1%) which compares well with 14%
- 25 -



increase in gross income reported in the 1998 impact evaluation survey. The rise in income is attributable mainly
to reduction in crop losses, increased production of cereal and horticultural crops, poultry and livestock, profit on
savings and other new income generating activities. Acquisition of organizational and management skills, which
would help in making VDCs self-supporting, was rated as highly satisfactory'with an overall mean score of 3.65
(male, 4.0 and female, 3.26). Furthermore, the empowerment of women was rated as highly satisfactory'with an
average score of 3.51 (response of male respondents, 3.6 and of female, 3.5).
6.     Sustainability of VDCs. Both male and female respondents considered their VDCs to be sustainable with
a mean score of 3.23 (male, 3.34 and female, 3.10). However, an overwhelming majority (90%) felt that the VDCs
would still be needing the outside financial and technical support. Group discussions and office records revealed
that VDCs were holding their meetings regularly, savings were continuing with an upward trend, trained activists
were using their skills gainfully, and the infrastructure schemes completed under the project were being
maintained. The average saving of the sampled VDCs was Rs. 53,585 and it ranged from a minimum of about Rs.
4,000 (VDCs established in 1998) to about Rs. 128,000 (1994). VDCs had been contributing to development
activities in both cash and kind. Financial contribution derived from savings and activity specific contributions
ranged from Rs. 2,000 to 87,000, which covered about 20 to 60% of total costs of different projects. The
contribution in kind was in the form of labor, materials and time. All indications were that VDCs were likely to
continue without a future project, but they surely will if a future project for this area is designed following an
integrated participatory management approach.
7.     Impact of Training. The training quality was considered highly satisfactory'with a mean score of 4. 1.
Of the total 12 skills imparted to the various individuals, in order of priority, the following skills were considered
more beneficial: (i) poultry keeping, (ii) vegetable production, (iii) community management, (iv) bee keeping, and
(v) pruning of fruit trees.
8.     Protection of Natural Resources. All VDCs, whose members were interviewed, had established tree
plantations on both private and communal lands and were maintaining them. About 70% of VDCs had also
established a norm of social and financial sanctions against those who violated tree protection. Community
members clearly understood the importance of tree plantations in as much as they provided them with the
much-needed wood, improved the natural environment and controlled soil erosion. Community members wanted
greater participation in the management of state and community forests. They considered their present
participation to be at an unsatisfactory'level with an overall rating of 2.3. However, the support of the line
departments in natural resource management was graded as 'atisfactory'Nwith a mean score of 2.7.
- 26 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
1.     Two Stakeholder Workshops were held: one at Muzaffarabad on October 21, 1999 with a comparatively
larger presence of policy makers and implementing agency officials, and the other at Rawalakot on October 23,
1999, which was dominated by VDC activists in their capacity as agents of change. The purpose of these
workshops was to discuss the outcome of the beneficiary survey (knnex 8), lessons learned from the project, and
the future operation of the project after it has closed. The workshops were also designed to reach beyond the
quantitative figures of tangible outputs, to identify quality of services delivered, and the effect this project had on
the ground in terms of its support to institutions and processes, as perceived by the stakeholders. Fifty four persons
participated in these workshops, which included: one member of the AJKM Legislative Assembly in the capacity of
an opinion leader, 3 policy makers (government), 12 officials from the implementing agencies, 6 representatives of
other government agencies, two representatives from UNDP's area development program, two representatives from
local NGOs, 25 members of VDCs (18 male and 7 female), and 3 Bank representatives (list attached). Basis for
discussions was provided by three presentations made at the workshops, namely, the outcome of the beneficiary
survey, lessons learned, and the project accomplishments.
2.     Participants of the workshops unanimously endorsed the findings of the beneficiary survey. The lessons
learned, as incorporated in the draft ICR, were also shared with the participants. They were generally in
agreement with all of them.
3.     The emerging issues have been placed in four separate categories, namely, additional lessons learned,
suggestions on the design of future projects, suggestions for the future operation of this project, and participants'
impressions. Participants'viewpoint (main proponents given in parenthesis) on the various issues is summarized
in the following table:
Issue                       Comments/Suggestions (principal stakeholders who commented)
Additional Lessons Learned
1. Longer project period   For projects aiming at protection and management of natural resources through local
communities, project period should be much longer than 5 years. The majority of the
participants felt that it should be 10 years. Due to procedural delays, the project activities
generally peak around the 5th year. A sudden closure of the project, in many ways, is
detrimental. (consensus among all groups)
2. Lack of credit facility  Credit is a dire necessity for communities. They use it for procuring agricultural inputs,
starting income generating activities, and carrying out additional development activities.
NRMP could have produced far better results had credit been a component of it. As
demonstrated by 'internal loaning" from some of the VDCs'own savings, members
exercised good financial discipline and paid back their loans timely. (policy makers,
NGOs, SMU, community activists)
3. Smoother flow of funds    Implementing agencies did not always receive project funds in a timely manner. It was
suggested that in future projects, there should be legal covenants that would ensure the
availability of the whole year's requirements of counterpart funds and communities'
contribution immediately at the start of the financial year. (implementing agencies,
community members)
Suggestions for Future Projects
4. Raising awareness       There has been a rise of awareness among people regarding natural resource concerns.
However, more needs to be done to heighten it to the level that communities take complete
or substantial charge of the protection of natural resources in their respective areas.
(consensus among all groups)
- 27 -



5. Starting in zero year   Projects should have a zero year in which detailed designing and arrangements for
procurement of goods and services, as well as for the establishment of nurseries, would be
completed. NRMP apparently lacked this phase. (Other donors, NGOs, Bank,
implementing agencies)
6. Eliminating subsidy    It was good to have subsidy removed altogether. It gave wider access to inputs. However, it
was felt that remote areas did not get supplies of inputs because the quantities required were
small and, as such, the private supplier did not have sufficient incentive to make the
supplies. Agriculture Department should devise a system of its own that would allow timely
availability of inputs in the far flung areas. (implementing agencies, community members,
Bank)
7. Successful social       The social mobilization effort succeeded because of the presence of a highly dedicated
mobilization               person in the SMU. Had it not been the case, the results would have been different. In
future projects, either the outfit like the SMU should be autonomous and given enough
financial and administrative powers or the work should be assigned to a dependable local
NGO. (most groups)
8. Incorporating exit      The project did not have a proper exit mechanism that would have allowed a smooth
mechanism                 transition from project implementation to project operation. Future projects should include
a comprehensive exit mechanism whereby the Bank's share of funding decreases with time
and the govermnent assumes full responsibility for funding the operational costs in its
normal budget (non-development) toward the end of the project. The last year of project
implementation should in a way be the first year of project operation, with staffing and
operating costs at such a level as could be maintained by the government in the post-project
phase. As a gesture of commitment, at least half of such recurrent cost should be
transferred to government's normal budget in the last year of the project. (other donors,
NGOs, Bank, implementing agencies)
9. Importance of training  Communities found that skills'training was the best activity of the project because the
skilled persons were able to provide the much-needed technical advice to others readily.
The size of the training component in future projects should be much larger so that all the
needed skills would become available locally. This will also help enhance the sustainability
of the project. Furthermore, the training funds should be placed at the disposal of the social
organization agency so that these could be fully utilized. Bureaucracy, normally, attaches
little importance to training for which reason a major part of the training funds remains
unutilized. (general consensus, with a loud voice from the community organizations)
10. Mainstreaming gender    Institutionalization of gender focus in the government of AJK will require sustained efforts
from all stakeholders. The project has demonstrated that women are responsive to the play
an active role in the development process at the grassroots level. The WDCs should be seen
equally effective vehicles of change as the male VDCs. (consensus by all)
Suggestions for the Future Operation of the Project
10. Meeting recurrent costs   GoAJK has already approved a one-year scheme and is implementing it for maintaining the
assets created under the project, particularly those which involve social mobilization and
women-in-development staff. The period of this scheme should be extended to 3 years with
a proviso that one third of the recurrent cost is transferred to government's "normal budget"
every year. (implementing agencies, community members, opinion leaders)
11. Funding for training   Reaiizing that skills'training is highly beneficial for communities, adequate funding for
this purpose should be made available in the recurrent budgets of all government
departments. (implementing agencies, NGOs)
- 28 -



12. Operating the Social   SMU should be allowed to operate for another 3-5 years, with given flexibility (its
Mobilization Unit (SMU)    coordinator should have drawing and disbursing powers) and near NGO like operations.
Many stakeholders felt that SMU should be converted into an NGO with strong links to the
line departments. (opinion leaders, NGOs)
Participants 'Impressions (mostly incorporated above, but quite afew are repeated below to capture zeal and originality
of ideas from the participants)
Participants wanted a 2-3 year extension of the NRMP, or a new project quickly on the heels of NRMP. Several
participants, and practically all those who came from community organizations, opined that the life of future projects,
which included social organization, should not be less than 10 years. Commented the chief policy maker (ACS for
development), "government department cannot do effective social mobilization, so out challenge is how to sustain
communities beyond the project." On the value of training, the consensus at the workshop was that skills'training has been
of the greatest value to the communities and that it should be an essential component of all future community related
projects. Said one participant while commenting on the awareness NRMP has brought in communities, "we were in a deep
slumber'and the project has helped us come out of it". " The project has instilled self confidence in us", said another
participant. Yet another participant said that he took pride in offering his guests the 'cucumber'he had raised in his
backyard rather than the usual tea' A women activist from a female community organization said, " water and fuelwood
that women hauled from long distances are now available nearby". A invaluable quotation on the limited use and
wastefulness of subsidy when it continues far too long: 'We were disinterested in the past in the free tree seedlings that were
offered to us while now we demand these in much larger numbers at full price (i.e. recovering the production cost)", said
one participant. When asked the basis of such motivation, the answer was "much higher survival rate of seedlings".
Another interesting impression was: "social organization should be introduced as a compulsory subject in school curricula".
- 29 -



List of Participants
Institutional representatives                        VDC Members (VDC Name/Place)
Government of AJK                                          Beneficiaries
Policy Makers                                                   1. Ms. Khadija Begum (Kandiala)
1. Mr. Sardar M.A. Rashid Khan, Addl. Chief Secretary, P&DD    2. Ms. Zeba Bashir (Kandiala)
2. Mr. Chaudhry Sadaqat Ali, Secretary, Agr. Department         3. Ms. Bashir Jan (Banguin)
3. Mr. Mohammad Sadiq, Secretary, Forest Department             4. Mr. Muhammad Daud (Banguin)
5. Mr. Shahbaz Abbasi (Banguin)
Implementina Departments/Agencies                               6. Mr. Sub. M. Alam Khan (Banguin)
4. Muhammad Afzal Turk, Project Director, NRMP                  7. Mr. M. Sarfraz (Las Jandali)
5. Mr. Chaudhry Niaz Ahmed, Chief Conservator of Forests        8. Mr. S.M. Khan (Rangugala)
6. Mr. Manzoor ul Haque Awan, Chief (Agriculture), P&DD         9. Mr. S. M. Anwar Khan (Baloch)
7. Mr. Mohammad Bashir Khan, Social Forester                    10. Mr. S. Zia A. Gilani (Sarmeela)
8. Mr. Mian Riaz Ahmed, Director, Agricultural Research         11. Mr. Mohammad Fazil (Sarmeela)
9. Mr. Chaudhry Mohammad Akram, Director, Agr. Extension        12. Mr. S. Abid Gilani (Ameela)
10. Mr. Basharat Hussain, Deputy Director, Irrigation           13. Mr. M. Farid Khan (Arneela)
11. Ms. Reharia Rafiq Khan, WID Coordinator, NRMP               14. Mr. Naseer Ahmed (Mohray)
12. Mr. Abdul Qayyum, Planning Officer (Agriculture),, NRMP     15. Mr. M. Shamraiz (Dhar Nariola)
13. Mr. Khurshid Ahmed, Ex-Planning Officer, NRMP               16. Mr. Ali Asghar (Center Nariola)
14. Mr. Syed Mustafa Shah, Land Use Planner, NRMP               17. Mr. Ghulam Hussain Khan (Kotra)
15. Mr. Tariq Masood Khan, Assistant Chief, Planning, NRMP      18. Mr. Maqbool Hussain (Kanjeri M)
19. Mr. Manazar Hussain (Ankargran)
Other Non-Implementing Government Departments           20. Ms. Nayla Hafeez (Sar Banguin)
16. Liaquat Ali Khan, Asst. Director, Social Welfare Dept.     21. Ms. Jamila Sarwar (Kanjeri F)
17. Ms. Naila Aslam, Research Officer, Agriculture Department  22. Ms. Tahira Talib (Kanjeri F)
23. Ms. Farida Khanum (WDC Kot)
Extension Services and Management Academy             24. Ms. Rashda Bibi (WDC Komi-Kot)
18. Dr. Manzoor Ahmad, Instructor, ESMA                        25. Mr. Malik M. Yasin Tahir
19. Mr. Sheikh Ahmad Hussain, Instructor, ESMA
Social Mobilization Unit
20. Mr. Yousaf Haroon, Coordinator, SMU
21. Mr. Raja Fraz Saeed, Social Organizer, SMU
Opinion Leaders/NGOs
22. Mr. Sardar Khan Bahadur Khan, MLA
23. Mr. Abdul Rahim, Regional Planning Officer, NRSP
24. Mr. Malik M. Sawar (Kiran NGO)
World Bank/UNDP
25. Mr. Rashed ul Qayyum, Task Leader, NRMP
26. Mr. Qazi Azmat Isa, Community Development Specialist
27. Mr. Abdul Qaiyum Sheikh, Consultant
28. Mr. Khalid Masud Chaudhry, Technical Adviser, UTNDP, ESMA
29. Mr. Razaq Malkana, UNDP Consultant
- 30 -



IBRD 24703R
57  n 74'                          A                            75'          -h =ph      ,-onprpd 1, 1e Wordd
A53m                                  6281 m.                                    Nh edron  frheilrs 5of35.-
heW.rld Bon-d 16nt   --f-enO Ino
,j  *a                                                                     -   * *sd and Ib. 6ude.e obownM - thi
N  . W   . F . P .         ,tIo Cpot fsrhboyedro
,. ),'>4202 m.    ;*
"i141 m4   A  %  *    ~~~2097 m,                    4295 m.
,__   3832 m.     3635 m                                                           ,1ll
tf~~~~~~  9J57-YPAKi    
|    t  S                                            ~~~~NORTHERN RESOURCE
\ .  ~''> Jws2226 m.                                            MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1  -O^Muzaffarabad          jt
L --> s;u    ~7921m.
-<clSs   '-                                       [        | ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
il   \  t828 m.   -                                    |        | ~~~~~~~~CONCENTRATED IMPACT AREA
A             A~-,                        Approximate                                                                   34-
,   676 ,   ,-%2?071 m.  -,            ,       Line of                         O      SELECTED TOWNS
34'   ,fAoBg                                                                                      ELEVATIONS (meters)
, t --'3 / ' B A G H - - ~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
<"i16<+"$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ..    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
1  ~~1981 m.  #"
lP O O N C   '
tz          ^         *' oA                                         25        50          75          1 oo
.,,        ~~~1982 m    \                  KILOMETERS I            I           I          I           I
* *   \          ~        ~        ~~~~~~       ~      ~     ~         ~         ~MILES I  I II
|   "_.-^-,^,,,,@: '                        O        ~        ~~        ~        ~~       ~        ~~ 25  50  75
S,*'-_,     /   O ~~~Kotl i 
s S~K O T L i
-    . s   _"a *s'                                     -U2E~~~~~~~~~~~~K2STXN TAJIKISTAN  
'\ Mirpur <',                                                            AFGHANISTAN              *1 
< _~~~~~ X        .                               cz |                    f~~~~~~~~~~0  ISLAMABAD--.-..
'8stM    X  R   P   U   R   "'x5{t;3                                                           1-
\_,   t   .- J .         .          9       ~~INDIA
74' lbc O -  
DECEMBER 1 999



