Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2512 PAK
                         Project Agreement
              (Northern Resource Management Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
                      AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
                      Dated October 15, 1993
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2512 PAK
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
acting by its President (AJK).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 20,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AJK agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AJK; and
      WHEREAS AJK, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) AKJ declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and resource
management practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and AJK shall
otherwise agree, AJK shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   AJK shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank
of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. AJK shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) AJK shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   AJK shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by AJK of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) AJK shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
     (b)  AJK shall:
            (i)   have such records and accounts including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  3
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, AJK shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 3.02. AJK shall ensure that, by September 30, 1996, a
diploma from AJK's Agriculture Training Institute will have become
a pre-requisite for appointment to Field Assistant positions in DOA.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AJK thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify AJK of
this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
Page  4
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For AJK:
            Planning and Development Department
            Muzaffarabad
            Azad Jammu and Kashmir
                                          Telex:
                                            58 3843
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of AJK, or by AJK on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department
(ACS, P&D) or such other person or persons as ACS, P&D shall
designate in writing, and ACS, P&D shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
Page  5
                  AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
                  By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and
equipment and materials shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works and, except as provided in paragraph 2 of this
Part C, field works and forest planting may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Field works and forestry planting estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 per package, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $5,700,000, may be carried out on a
force account basis in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
Page  6
exceed the equivalent of $2,400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist AJK in carrying out the Project, AJK shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, AJK shall employ such consultants under contracts using
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, AJK shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Page  7
A.    Project Coordination and Implementation
1.    P&D shall have overall responsibility for coordinating project
activities.
2.    Specific responsibility for implementing the Project shall be
assigned as follows:
      (a)   for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project overall, to MOA&AH;
      (b)   for Part A.3 of the Project, to DOF;
      (c)   for Part A.4 of the Project, to P&D;
      (d)   for Part B of the Project, to DOA, DOAH and DOF jointly
as appropriate; and
      (e)   for Part C of the Project, to PWD.
B.    Transfer of Input Production and Distribution Activities to
      Private Sector
      AJK shall offer for transfer input production and distribution
activities to the private sector and reduce related subsidies under
Part A.1 (b) of the Project in accordance with a phased program
satisfactory to the Association which shall provide for:
      (1)   the reduction of subsidies as follows: (a) on potato
            seed, by 20% in each of the years beginning July 1,
            1994, July 1, 1995 and July 1, 1996; (b) on vegetable
            seed, by 15% in each of the years beginning July 1,
            1994, July 1, 1995, July 1, 1996 and July 1, 1997; (c)
            on fruit seedling, by 15% in each of the years beginning
            July 1, 1994 and July 1, 1995; (d) on bare root forest
            seedling, by 10% in each of the years beginning July 1,
            1994 and July 1, 1995, and by 20% in each of the years
            beginning July 1, 1996, July 1, 1997 and July 1, 1998;
            and (e) on container forest seedling, by 15% in the year
            beginning July 1, 1994, and by 20% in each of the years
            beginning July 1, 1995, July 1, 1996, July 1, 1997 and
            July 1, 1998;
     (2)    the transfer of production and distribution activities
            as follows: (a) in respect of one potato seed farm in
            each of the years beginning July 1, 1994 and July 1,
            1996; (b) in respect of two vegetable seed farms in each
            of the years beginning July 1, 1994, July 1, 1995 and
            July 1, 1996, and in respect of one such farm in the
            year beginning July 1, 1997; (c) in respect of five
            fruit seedling farms in each of the years beginning July
            1, 1995 and July 1, 1996, and in respect of four such
            farms in each of the years beginning July 1, 1997 and
            July 1, 1998; (d) in respect of 11 ha. of land producing
            forest seedling in the year beginning July 1, 1995, 16
            ha. of such land in the year beginning July 1, 1996, 26
            ha. of such land in the year beginning July 1, 1997, and
            16 ha. of such land in the year beginning July 1, 1998;
            and (e) in respect of thirty-one fertilizer and seed
            stores in the year beginning July 1, 1995; and
      (3)   redeployment of about 290 DOA, DOAH and DOF staff,
            released as a result of the transfer of input production
            and distribution activities under (2) above, for the
            purposes of the Project as follows: about 145 such staff
            in the year beginning July 1, 1995; about 70 such staff
            in the year beginning July 1, 1996; and the remaining
            such staff in the year beginning July 1, 1997.
C.    Reorganization of DOAH and DOF
      AJK shall carry out the reorganization of DOAH and DOF under
Page  8
Parts A.2 (a) and A.3 (a), respectively, of the Project in
accordance with a phased program satisfactory to the Association.
D.    Vaccination Fee Revolving Fund
      AJK shall ensure that all vaccination fees recovered under the
expanded disease prevention program introduced under Part A.2 (b) of
the Project will be deposited in a revolving fund, and will be
utilized for purchasing future requirements of vaccine supplies, all
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
E.    Progress Reports
      AJK shall, not later than thirty days after the end of each
quarter of each year of Project implementation, furnish to the
Association consolidated progress reports on the Project for such
quarter in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
F.    Mid-term Review
      AJK shall with the participation of the Association and not
later than December 31, 1995, carry out a mid-term review of the
Project, and shall make such adjustments in the activities to be
carried out under the Project and in the related organizational and
institutional arrangements as shall be warranted in the light of
such review and agreed with the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, AJK shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of AJK, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
AJK shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, AJK
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  9
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, AJK
                  shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of AJK, withdraw
                  from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as AJK shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by AJK out of the Special Account, AJK
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by AJK directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to AJK. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, AJK shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until AJK has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, AJK
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   AJK may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  10
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
