OFF11iAL
DOCUMETS
CREDIT NUMBER 2512 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Northern Resource Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2512 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by Azad Jammu and
Kashmir (AJK) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borv.ower will make available to AJK the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AJK;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, or
any successor thereto;
(b)   "DOA" means AJK's Department of Agriculture;
(c)   "DOAH" means AJK's Department of Animal Husbandry;
(d)   "DOF" means AJK's Department of Forestry;


﻿2
(e)   "P&D" means AJK's Planning and Development Department;
(f)   "PWD" means AJK's Public Works Department;
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AJK of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and in Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement;
(i)   "FY" or "fiscal year" means the Borrower's or AJK's
fiscal year, as the case may be, covering the period July 1 through
June 30; and
(j)   "ha" means hectare.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project -nd to be
financed out of the prrceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Pzoject,
cause AJK to open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 19S8 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on December 1 and June 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrowe:. shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi--
annual iastallments payable on each December 1 and June 1 commencing
December 1, 2003 and ending June 1, 2028. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2013 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.


﻿-4-
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary, P&D of AJK is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause AJK to perform in accordance with the


﻿-5-
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of AJK
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AJK to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to AJK.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by AJK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that   all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.


﻿-6-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independ6nt
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   cause to be furnished to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)   cause to be furnished to the Association such
other information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AJK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AJK will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this


﻿-7-
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council of the Borrower has approved the Planning
Commission-1 (PC-1) document in respect of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by AJK, and is legally binding upon
AJK in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7,01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary General or the Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that
Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:               Telex:
ECONOMIC                 ECDIV-05-634
Pakistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,-as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /       4    4       o#
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
)d
B  5
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil, field               8,900,000       80%
works and
forestry
planting
(2) Equipment,                 2,700,000       100% of foreign
vehicles and                                expenditures,
materials                                   100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'               3,700,000       100%
services and
training


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Incremental               3,100,000        100% until an
staff and                                  amount equi-
operating                                  valent to SDR
costs                                      1,700,000 has
has been dis-
bursed from
this Category;
60% thereafter
and until an
amount equi-
valent to SDR
2,800,000 has
been disbursed
from this Cate-
gory; and 30%
thereafter
(5) Unallocated               2,000,000
TOTAL                20,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental staff and operating costs" means
the salaries and allowances of staff appointed to positions created,
and the costs of operating and maintaining the equipment and
vehicles procured, after April 1, 1993, all for the purposes of
carrying out the Project.


﻿- 12 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1993.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to promote the sustainable
and economically efficient use of land resources in AJK which ranks
with the country's poorest and most environmentally vulnerable areas
and, to that end, to: (a) improve the relevant policy framework; (b)
restructure and strengthen the institutional base; and (c) test
different approaches to community participation in management and
financial responsibility.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Of DOA: through: (a) its reorganization into the directorates
of extension and training and technical support, and a planning and
economic services unit; (b) the phasing out of its input production
and distribution activities and related subsidies and the transfer
of such activities to the privata sector; (c) the expansion of its
Planning and Economic Services unit to include analysis, planning
and monitoring and evaluation functions; and (d) the provision of
stronger field extension and additional adaptive and on-farm
research services, with emphasis on resource conservation and
improved fodder and animal nutrition.
2.    Of DOAH: through: (a) its reorganization along functional
lines so as to cover extension, research and development, on the one
hand, and animal health, on the other hand; (b) the carrying out of
an expanded disease prevention program; and (c) the enhancement of
its research capabilities to include the fields of fodder, breed
improvement and nutrition.
3.    Of DOF: through: (a) the establishment of a Social Forestry
Wing attached to the Office of the Chief Conservator of Forests; (b)
the provision of facilities to enable it to carry out a community-
based reforestation program, including the establishment of
plantations and execution of soil and water conservation works; (c)
the strengthening of forestry extension services; and (d) the
carrying out of a mass community awareness program.


﻿- 14 -
4.    Of P&D: through: (a) the establishment of a small unit for
project  formulation, monitoring    and  evaluation  of  resource
management and conservation programs and strategies; (b) the
transfer to it of the Land Use Planning Unit of DOF and the taking
of measures to strengthen that unit; and (c) the establishment of a
Privatization and Reorganization Unit.
Part B:     Pilot Programs
carrying out pilot programs to promote community participation
in resource conservation activities in the sub-watershed areas of
Bhanguin, Hular, Baluch, Chhota Gala and Sensa, including the
preparation of development plans, establishment of village
development committees, training of community leaders and women, and
introduction of programs and technical packages for community lands
and for private farmers.
Part C:     Road Improvement
Carrying out of improvements to rural roads measuring in the
aggregate about 165 km in length in the vicinity of the pilot
programs to be carried out under Part B above.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the fnternational
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


