RESTRICTED
FILE9t  COPY tReport No. P-617
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK
AND TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK TO
AND AN INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION IN
DAWOOD HERCULES CHEMICALS LIMITED
PAKISTAN
June 20, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN!I) EVELOP.MENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION            CONFIDENTIAL
FOR
'For consideration
EXECUTIVE                         FIE          ~on July 2, 1968
DIRECTORS'                        FIE'
MEETING                                                                   R68-107/1
IFC/R68-22/1
FROM:  The Secretary                                              June 24, 1968
CORRIGENDA
1. With reference to the documents on the proposed loan to and invest-
ment in Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited - Pakistan (R68-107, IpC/R68-22
dated June 20, 1968):
(a) paragraph 24 on page 6 of the President's Report and Recom-
mendation should be corrected to read as follows:
"24.   Loans arising out of the above agreements will be on a
subordinated basis carrying interest of not more than 9% and,
subject to the senior debt service and a quick asset test being
met, repayable in semi-annual installments over five years com-
mencing twelve months after completion."
(b)  in paragraph 26 (a) (iii) of the Appraisal Renort, last line,
the word "quick"' is to replace the word `*current.
2. The first line of the covering memorandum should begin "1. Attached
is .          instead of "1.   Attached to .........
3. Paragraph 5 of the covering memorandum should be amended to read as
follows:
"5.   Questions on these documents should be referred to
Mr. W. Kaupisch (ext. 2708): and, as to matters relating to
the IFC investment, to Mr. von Hoffmann (IFC) (Ext. 2447).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
President's Council
Executive Vice President, IFC
Vice President, IFC
Department Heads, Bank and IFC



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTE2RNATIONMAL FINANCE CORPORATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK 10D TO TIIE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION ON A PROPOSED LOAN BY
THE BANK TO AID AN INVESTMENT BY TiE CORPORATION IN
DAWOOD HERCULES CHEIICALS LIIvITED
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Bank loan, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to 432 million to
Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited (D-H) and a proposed investment by IFC
consisting of an equity subscription in an amount of Rs.13.9 million
(approximately $2.9 million), and a contingent commitment of a million in
the same Company.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.        The Government of Pakistan in its drive to achieve self-
sufficiency in food at an early date and generally to increase agricul-
tural output, attaches great importance to replacing imports by the local
production of nitrogenous fertilizer, for which the resources of natural
gas in Pakistan provide a suitable feedstock. Three urea fertilizer
projects, each with a capacity of about 350,000 tons of product were
licensed under the Third Five-Year Plan. The Bank and IFC, wJhen asked
to provide finance for two of them, concluded after evaluating various
market forecasts that any two of the three projects sanctioned could go
ahead immediately, but that the Government should defer the construction
of the third project until the development of the market justified it.
The Bank and IFC took the position that the Government should consult
'wth the Bank group before permitting the third plant to be ouilt. The
Government accepted this position, and selected tn.e projects sponsored
by the Bai-Tood group of Pakistan and Hercules Incorporated of Wilmington,
Delaware, and by the Adamjee group of Pakistan and American Cyanamid.
Both had as'ked the Bank and IFC for loans and equity investments.
3.        A Bank loan ($28 million) and an IFC equity investment of
$4 million for a second fertilizer plant sponsored by the Adamjee group
and American Cyanamid, and a Bank loan to Sui Northern Gas Pipelines
($12 million) to provide for the additional pipeline facilities are
currently under consideration.
4.        The Dawood Hercules project was first brought to the Bank
group's attention in November 1966 when its sponsors enquired about the
prospects for obtaining financing from the Bank group. Subsequent discuss-
ions by Bank and IFC staff with the sponsors lead to the present project.
The Government sanctioned the project in November 1967 and on April 17, 1968
Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited (D-H) was incorporated in Karachi.



- 2 -
5.        Nffegotiations with the representatives of the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and Dawood Hercules Chemicals were held in IJashington from
May 28 to June 20, 1968. Pakistan was represented by Mr. A. R. Bashir,
Economic IMLnister, Embassy of Pakistan; Dawood Hercules Chemicals by its
sponsors, Mr. Siddique Dawood, representing the Dawood group, and a
delegation from Hercules, headed by MIr. Raymond Clarke, Assistant
Treasurer.
6.        The following is a statement of totals of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Pakistan as at May 31, 1968.
Amount (US   Million)
Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Total (less cancellations)           459.9   321.2
of which has been repaid
to the Bank and others             10h.8
Total now outstanding                355.1
Amount sold:                 20.8
of iwhich has been repaid  16.6     b4.2     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA       350.9    321.2
Total undisbursed                    152.7   106.3      259.O
Details of undisbursed loans and credits and comments on delays in
execution uere given in the Presidentts Report and Recommendation on the
proposed credit for the Second West Pakistan Highway Project. (P-615)
(IDA R68-27) dated June 13, 1968.
7.        IFC has made eight investments in Pakistan totaling $17.8 million,
of wJhich $L4.1 million has been disbursed as of May 31, 1968. The principal
areas of investment have been the cement, paper and jute industries and
development banking. IFC is presently considering investment applications
for the additional fertilizer project referred to in paragraph 3 and the
expansion of an existing paper mill. The IFC operations in Pakistan are
proceeding satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND INVESTi1EMIT
8.        (a)  Borrower:             Dawzood Hercules Chemicals Limited.
Guarantor:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                $32.0 million equivalent in various
currencies.



-3-
Purpose:               To assist Dawood Hercules Chemicals
in financing the foreign exchange
cost of a urea fertilizer plant to
be set up at Chichoki Mallian, West
Pakistan.
Amortization:          To be repaid in 22 approximately
equal semi-annual payments of principal
beginning on llovember 15, 1972 and
ending on ,'iay 15, 1983.
Interest Rate:         6-1/4 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:     3/4 of one percent per annum on the
undisbursed amount of the Loan.
(b)  IFC Investment:        US$2,919,000 plus an additional
contingent commitment of up to
US1,000.,COO, as followJs:
(i) Equity:            1,390,000 ordinary shares at par
(Rs.10). If the aggregate amount
eventually paid for such 1,390,000
shares is less than US$2,919,000,
IFC will lend the difference in
dollars by unsecured loans subordinated
to long-term debt carrying an interest
rate of not more than 9/J writh repayment
scheduled over five years commencing
12 months after project completion.
(ii) Contingent
Commitment:        Up to US$1,000,000 in unsecured loans,
on terms as in (i) above, if required
to meet part of cost overruns in
foreign exchange.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        The project is more fully described in the attached Appraisal
Report (No.AAha) to which a technical report and a note on the fertilizer
market in WSlest Paidstan is attached.
10.       A new company, Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited has been formed
to implement the project under wshich an ammonia-urea fertilizer plant with
daily capacities of 620 tons of ammonia and 1,100 tons of urea, would be



- 4 -
set up at Chichoki Maillian, Sheikhupura District, ITest Pakistan, to produce
345,000 tons of urea annually. The plant would use, as feedstock, natural
gas available from the Sui gas field.
11.       The project is jointly sponsored by Dawood and Hercules. Dawood
is one of the leading industrial groups in Pakistan lith extensive invest-
ments in many industrial firms. Dawood will invest in 40%0 of the D-H
Chemicals equity, undernite the 10" public share issue, and provide admin-
istrative services under their Mznaging Agency Agreement. Hercules, a
leading U.S. chemical conpany, has been engaged in ammonia synthesis since
1939 and in the manufacture of urea since 1960. Hercules wiill contribute
40a of the equity of D-H Chemicals and iell also provide D-H Chemicals with
technical assistance for three years after start-up.
12.       The total project cost is estimated at $78.2 million, including
provisions for permanent working capital of $2.6 million, of hilich the
foreign exchange component would be $46.6 million. In addition to the
proposed Bank loan and IFC investment totaling $34.9 million, $11.7 million
mill be provided by share subscription by Hercules and $14.6 million by
Dawood and the Pakistani public, '$;14.2 million in the form of a rupee loan
from the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) and 92.8 million
equivalent by customs debentures.
13.       D-H Chemicals wqith an authorized capital of Rs.250 million (approx-
imately $52.5 million) will have a final paid-in capital of Iis.139 million
to finance the project, Hercules and Dawood dill each contribute Rus.55.6
million to own 40%0 of D-H Chemicals' voting stock. The remaining 20M of the
total equity will be contributed equally by IFC and the Pakistani public.
The public issue will be underwtten by Dawood and covered by a banlk
guarantee.
14.       The proposed AID loan of $14.2 million in rupee  equivalent would
carry a 7% interest rate and be repaid in 14 semi-annual installments
after a 42-month grace period which w¢ould begin at the time of the first
disbursement of the loan. Customs debentures of $2.8 million, under the
existing regulations., will bear an interest rate of 1 above the Central
Bank rate (currently 5%) and be repayable in six semi-annual installments
after an interest-free grace period of two years.
15.       The Government of Pakistan -will extend the usual guarantee for
the loan and has informed the Bank that it intends to charge the Borrowrer
a fee for this facility set at a rate which would increase the cost to the
Borrower, including the interest charged by the Bank, to 7-1/2l, which is
the current rate fixed by the Government for the relending to industries of
funds borrowsed by the Government.
16.       The proposed Bank loan wiould finance the procurement of machinery,
equipment and materials for the plant estimated to cost C23.2 million. These
ill be procured through international bidding in accordance with the Bank's



- 5 -
guidelines relating to procurement, except for some items of a proprietary
nature amounting to about $5.5 million which will be subject to international
bidding restricted to manufactures licensed to produce such items. In
addition, the Bank loan is to finance the cost of design and process engi-
neering by specialist firms selected by the sponsors, expected to cost $5.2
million; $3.6 million would also be provided for contingencies to cover any
increases in the cost of items to be financed by the Bank loan.
17.       The Bank and IFG have assessed several studies to determine the
market potential for urea fertilizer in West Pakistan. Progress made in the
large scale introduction of new high yielding varieties of seeds, which will
create an increased need for fertilizer use, make the assumption realistic
that consumption of nitrogen fertilizer will grow from 150,000 tons, in terms
of nitrogen content, in 1967/68 to some 470,000 tons in 1974/75, or by an
average annual rate of about 20%. Based on this projected growth rate, there
is justification for two additional urea plants in West Pakistan which would
allow this project and another similar urea plant to be installed concurrent-
ly. However, such a growth is dependent upon the Government of Pakistan con-
tinuing its policy to promote agricultural growth by a coordinated effort to
make water, credit and other inputs readily available to farmers, and to
maintain a price relationship between inputs and produce -which makes invest-
ment in agriculture rewarding to the farmer. This the Government plans to do.
18.       Mechanical erection is expected to be completed within 36 months
after all project financing is finalized, i.e. July, 1971. Based upon con-
servative assumptions regarding production and sales, the project appears
technically feasible and commercially and financially viable. Both sponsors
are financially strong and managerially capable.
19.       Projected cash generation appears adequate to assure servicing of
the total long-term debt. To assure adequate debt service coverage, the
Loan Agreement provides that D-H would be permitted to pay dividends only
to the extent such dividends are declared out of net earnings for the preced-
ing fiscal year, and that payments do not reduce D-H's quick assets (cash,
marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable) below its current
liabilities (including the current portion of its long-term debt) (Section
5.10).  The indebtedness of D-H -would be limited and D-Hts capital expend-
itures outside the project would be controlled (Section 5.08 and 5.09), and
provisions have been negotiated to ensure that D-H's debt/equity ratio does
not exceed reasonable limits during the disbursement of the Loan (Section
2.02).
20.       On the basis of the projected return on the share capital, IFC
can look forward to a satisfactory return on its investment. The shares of
the new company, after the public issue has been made, should be among the
more attractive and active shares available on the capital market in
Pakistan. Thus, IFC should be able, after a period of time, to dispose pro-
fitably of its shares.



- 6 -
21.       In view of the magnitude of the project special arrangements have
been agreed to secure overrun financing. Dawoods have undertaken to provide
financing for local currency overruns. Regarding foreign exchange overruns,
Hercules and IFC would provide funds in a ratio of 4:1 (corresponding to the
ratio of their holdings in the company's share capital) up to a total of
$5 million, which should be amply sufficient. The proposed contingent IFC
commitment for up to $1 million is intended to cover this obligation.
22.       Since Hercules and IFC subscribe to a specified number of rupee
shares, the actual purchase price payable for them in dollars will depend
on the rate of exchange between rupees and dollars at the time of the
purchase. In the event of a depreciation of the rupee, it is proposed that
both lend the difference between the assumed and actual cost of share pur-
chases in dollars to the company in order to keep the financing plan intact.
Accordingly, IFC would lend to D-H Chemicals the difference between the price
actually paid for 1,390,000 shares and $2.9 million.
24.       Loans arising out the the above agreements will be on a subordinate'
basis carrying interest of not more than 9% and, subject to the senior debt
service and a quick asset test being met, repayable in semi-annual install-
ments over five years commencing twelve months after start-up.
25.       The project will materially contribute to the economy of Pakistan
by providing a substantial quantity of urea at prices competitive with
imports to assist in increasing agricultural production and broadening the
industrial base of the country. Since the project is based upon locally
available natural gas, sizable savings in foreign exchange are expected.
The project will also provide employment for 600 workers.
PART IV - THE IFC INVESTMENT
26.       Documents to evidence commitments have been agreed in substance
between IFC and sponsors. IFO will pay for its shares from time to time
in accordance -with drawdown of the equity funds, subject to the company
completing all the other financial arrangements and to the sponsors having
subscribed in full to their shares.
PART V - BANiK LOAN: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
27.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and D-H Chemicals, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the
Bank, Shareholders Agreement between the Bank, D-H Chemicals, the Da::ood gro-,:
and Heroules. cand the ileport of the Ccfmi-ttoe provided f£r in Article III,
Section V(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement generally follows
the pattern of agreements for loans for industrial projects and of previous



- 7 -
loans to private companies in Pakistan. Attention is drawn to the following:
(a) The Borrower would execute a trust deed providing for a first
specific mortgage upon the immovable properties of the Borrower
and a first floating charge upon all the BorrowJer's assets and
undertaking as security for the Loan and the Bonds (Section 5.12).
This provision permits the Borrower to grant equivalent security
in respect of the AID loan. Withdrawals from the Loan Account
would be, unless the Bank agrees otherwzise, limited to $6,000,000
until the trust deed has been executed and registered (Section
2.02(b)).
(b)  The Bank would have the right to suspend, cancel or in certain
circumstances premature the Loan in the event of a default under
the Shareholders Agreement or of the termination or amendment
without the Bank's consent of any of the agreements under which
D-H Chemicals is provided with technical and administrative
services, know-how, and supplies of natural gas (Section 6.01
and 6.02).
28.       The draft Guarantee Agreement is in the usual form.
29.       The draft Shareholders Agreement deals chiefly with the obligations
of Hercules to provide additional foreign exchange funds and of the Dawood
group to provide additional rupee funds required for the completion of the
project and for adequate working capital (Section 3).
PART VI - THE ECONOMfY
30.       A Report on the Current Economic Position and Prospects of Pakistan
(AS-136a) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 22, 1968. Pak-
istan's economic performance has been satisfactory, althougl further improve-
ments are desirable. At the recent meeting of the Pakistan Consortium, as
reported in the President's Report and Recommendations on the proposed Credit
for the Second WIest Pakistan Highway Project (P-615) of June 13, 1968, the
Government indicated that it would take steps along the lines recommended by
the Bank, In view of the country's economic situation and prospects, Pakistan
should be regarded as a soft blend IDA country and a ratio of around 80:20
between lending on soft and conventional terms would be appropriate. UWith
this loan and the proposed loans to Adanjee Cyanamid ($28 million) and Sui
Northern Gas Pipelines Limited ($12 million), plus the additional commitment
for Tarbela ($25 million), the blend of Bank/IDA lending would have hardened
for the time being somealhat beyond the desired mixture, but Pakistan can be
considered creditiworthy for the lending proposed.
PART VII - COPIPLIA4CE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
31.       I am satisfied that the proposed Bank loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and that the proposed investment by IFC



- 8 -
Tould coroply ;-Ith the Articles of Agreement of the IFC. In accordance iith
the provisions o-} .Article III, Section 3(ii) of its Airticles of Agreement,
IFC has given niotice to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
of the proposed investment by IFC.
PART VIII - RECOM1MENDATIONS
32.       I recommend that:
(a) the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited in
an amount equivalent to US$32,000,000 to be guaranteed by
Islamic RZepublic of Paldstan.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Dawfood Hercules
Chemicals Limited to be guaranteed by Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-two million United States dollars (U.S.$32,000,000),
to mature on and prior to May 15, 1983, to bear interest at
the rate of six and one-quarter per cent (6-1/4%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the forms of the following documents which have been
presented to this meeting: (i) Loan Agreement (Dawiood Hercules
Fertilizer Project) between the Bank and Dawood Hercules Chemicals
Limited, (ii) Guarantee Agreement (Dawood Hercules Fertilizer
Project) between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank, and
(iii) Shareholders Agreement (Dawood Hercules Fertilizer Project)
between the Bank, Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited, Hercules
Incorporated and Ahmed Dawood, Siddique Dawood5 Suleman Dalwood,
Dawood Corporation Limited and Dawood Industries Limited.
(b) the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopt the
followidng resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IFC 68-
Approval of investment in Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited.
RESOLVED:
(A) THAT the Corporation conclude an investment in Dawood
Hercules Chemicals Limited (the Company), Pakistan, by



- 9 -
subscribing at the price of par for 1,390,000 ordinary shares
of par value 10 rupees each of the Company; and that, in the
event that the equivalent in dollars of the amount paid by
the Corporation for said 1,390,000 ordinary shares shall be
less than U$ 2,919,000, the Corporation provide to the Company
additional funds not exceeding the amount of the deficiency
upon such terms as the President, Executive Vice President
or Vice President shall determine;
(B) THAT the Corporation provide to the Company additional
funds, not exceeding an aggregate of US$l,OCO,000, upon such
terms as the Preside.nt, Executive Vice iresid4nt or Vice
President shall deternmine in case such fumds shallp in the
opinion of any one of them, be required to meet any increase
in the foreign exchange cost of the project to be carried out
by the Company; and
THAT the President, Executive Vice President or Vice President,
or any staff member of the Corporation authorized by any one of
them, enter in the name and on behalf of the Corporation into
an agreement or agreements providing for such transactions and
containing such other terms and conditions as he, by the
execution thereof, shall approve.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachment                                           President
June 20, 1968



