Report No. 716a-CM                                                                      FILE  CoPY
Appraisal of
Niete Rubber Estate Project
Cameroon
May 20, 1975
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ l           =     CFAF 225
CFAF 1          =     US$ 0.0044
CFAF 1,000,000  =     US$4444.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare (ha)    =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer       =     0.624 miles
1 kilogram        =     2.204 pounds
1 metric ton      =     2,204.6 pounds
1 liter           =     1.057 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE       : Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CDC or
CAMDEV    : Cameroon Development Corporation
ENSA       : Ecole National Superieure Agronomique
FAC        : Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
HEVECAM          Societe Hevea - Cameroun
IRAT          Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et de Cultures Vivrieres
IRCA          Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc en Afrique
PAMOL         Societe Pamol Cameroun (Unilever Group)
SATET         Societe Africaine de Travaux et d'Etudes Topographiques
SAFACAM          Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole - Cameroun
SOCAPALM         Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
SEDA          Societe  d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique
SOSUCAM       Societe Sucriere du Cameroon
SOCFIN        Societe Financiere
HEVECAM'S
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................    i - v
I.  INrTRODUCTION .....      ...................... ......... 
II.   BACKGROUND  ........         ...........................      2
A.  General       ............................                2
B.  Agricultural Sector ........................              3
III.  DEVELOPMENT OF ESTATE AND OUTGROWER AGRICULTURE.               4
IV.  THE PROJECT ....................................               6
A.  Project Area ...............................              6
B.  Summary Description ....................    ....          8
C.  Detailed Features ........ ............           .       9
D.  Organization and Management  ........ ..                 12
E.  Accounts and Audit  ...................      ....        15
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ......             15
A .  Cost Estimates ....... . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  15
B.  Financial Arrangements ......... .. ..........           17
C.  Procurement ......        ..........................     19
D.  Disbursements ............. .. ...............           19
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ....              20
A.  Yields and Production ......... .. ...........           20
B.  Marketing and Prices .......          ................   20
C.  Financial Results ........          ..................   21
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION          ......................    21
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....          ......    23
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited
Cameroon in November/December 1974, and whose members were Messrs. Losson,
Leduc, Palein, and Winston; Mr. Forget (Legal staff) was with the mission
part of the time.



ANNEXES
1.   Draft Scope of Work for a Master Plan for Southwest Region
2.   The Project Area and Features of Niete Estate
Table 1: Soil Analysis of the Northern Part of the Concession Area
Table 2: Schedule of Operations
Table 3: Production Schedule
Table 4:  Staffing Schedule
Table 5: Labor Force
Table 6: Exploitation Schedule
Table 7: Tapping Specifications
Table 8: Construction Program
3.   La Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole - Cameroun (SAFACAM)
Appendix 1: Draft Agreement
4.   Audit Terms of Reference
5.   Cost Estimates
Table 1:  Project and Program Costs
Table 2:  Summary Cost per Hectare for Agricultural Development
Table 3: Land Clearing and Road Construction: Civil Works by
Contractor - Completion by Estate Force Account
Table 4: Land Clearing and Road Construction by Estate Force Account
Table 5: Salaries and Costs of Professional Staff
Table 6: Wages and Costs of Nonprofessional Staff
Table 7: Housing Costs
6.   Cash Flows
Table 1: HEVECAM Income Statement
Table 2: HEVECAM Sources and Application of Funds
Table 3: Government Cash Flow
Table 4: Estimated Quarterlv Disbursements of IDA Credit
Table 5: HEVECAM Sources and Application of Funds (5,800 ha)
7.   Natural Rubber:  Trends and Outlook
Table 1: World Production and Consumption
8.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1: Price Structure and Marketing Margins for One Ton of Rubber
Table 2:  Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 3: Economic Rate of Return Calculation (5,800 ha)



MAPS
1.   Population, Rainfall, Transportation and Project Area -IBRD 11484
2.   Niete Rubber Estate Concession - IBRD 11485
CIIARTS
Organization Chart - IBRD 9584






CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has requested the assistance of IDA and
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in financing a
rubber estate in the southwest of the country. The project vas prepared
by the Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole--Cameroun (SAFACAM). This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission in November/
December 1974.
ii.       Initially, Government asked IDA and CCCE to appraise the estab-
lishment of a 15,000 ha rubber estate. The proposed objective appears to
be economically sound but inflation makes it impossible to produce a firm
and realistic financial plan for the 16 years needed to develop such a
large undertaking. It is therefore proposed to provide finance for five
years, encompassing the planting of 5,800 ha of rubber as well as prep-
aratory work for subsequent development. As Government sees the project
appraised in this report as a first step in establishing a 15,000 ha estate,
the financial and economic data show the projected results both of the larger
estate and of the proposed project.
iii.      If for any reason Government's plans did not materialize, the area
of rubber planted under the project would constitute an economic unit, al-
though its completion, i.e. bringing all 5,800 ha into full production, would
require a total of seven years and some US$11 million (net of taxes and con-
tingencies) in addition to the cost of the five-year project. The Government
would assume responsibility for providing, or causing to be provided, these
funds, since IDA can give no commitment at this stage. At a later stage,
however, the Bank Group and CCCE would consider financing either the remaining
development of the 5,800 ha, or further expansion, on the basis of the pre-
paration work financed during the first phase.
iv.       The project would also provide for preparation of a major long-term
development plan for the southwest region. In outline, this plan would aim
at developing some 100,000 ha or more of nuclear estate and outgrower com-
plexes, over some 25 years, in a region that is now sparsely populated and
undeveloped but suitable for a range of tree crops including rubber.
Description of the Proiect
v.        The project comprises the first phase of development--1975/76
through 1979/80--of a large rubber estate. It would include:



- ii -
(a) clearing 5,800 ha and planting them with high yielding
rubber; preparation of land for a further 1,700 ha to
be planted in 1980/81 in a second phase of development;
and maintenance of the 5,800 ha of plantings for the
duration of the five-year project development period;
(b) conducting establishment and yield trials with different
clones of rubber, and agronomic research if required;
(c) constructing housing, health, education, and the social
facilities for about 3,000 estate families; and service
roads for the estate;
(d) establishing a commissariat to ensure food supplies to
estate employees, and also to supervise trials with
foodcrops;
(e)  establishing and staffing a state-owned company to own and
operate the estate; and employing a suitably qualified
firm to:
(i) manage the new company,
(ii) prepare a follow-up project, including the continuation
of pedological and topological studies, and
(iii) train Cameroonians at all levels of responsibility on
the estate; and
(f) preparing a master plan for the development of the Kribi
region which emphasizes the production of perennial crops.
The estate would be owned and operated by a Government-owned corporation,
HEVECAM. The Government recognizes that it will take time for Cameroonians
to be trained for senior management positions in the rubber industry. There-
fore, HEVECAM would employ the management services of SAFACAM, a Cameroonian
estate-operating company which itself is affiliated with SOCFIN, a well-
known international corporation specializing in tropical estate production
and sales. The Association has reviewed and approved a draft of the manage-
ment contract, whose signing would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
HEVECAM's senior management wculd comprise a Director General and the managers
of the Technical, Industrial and Administrative departments, whose qualifi-
cations and experience would be satisfactory to IDA.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
vi.       The project cost is estimated at US$23.2 million, net of taxes
(US$5.3 million). The foreign exchange component would be about US$16.6
million, or 72% of total cost net of taxes. Total cost includes physical
contingencies and provisions for price increases amounting to 42% of the
base cost estimates, which are at end-1974 prices.



- iii -
vii.      The proposed IDA credit would be for US$16 million, made to the
United Republic of Cameroon on standard terms, and would cover 56% of total costs
including taxes and US$0.8 million of corporate fees which would be fully paid
by Government-CCCE would lend US$4.45 million equivalent to Government, for a term
of 20 years, including 10 years of grace, with interest at 5.5%; the CCCE loan
would finance 16% of total costs. Government would finance the remaining
28% of total costs. About US$15.1 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit
together with the CCCE and Government contributions would be made available
to HEVECAM as equity (45%) and a subloan (55%). The equity contribution of
US$12.2 million would consist of US$3.5 million IDA funds, US$7.7 million
Government funds, and US$1.0 million Caisse loan funds. The subloan of US$14.8
million would consist of US$11.6 million IDA funds and US$3.2 million of CCCE
loan funds, and would be made by the Government to HEVECAM under a Project
Financing Agreement that is a condition of effectiveness of the credit. The
proposed subloan would be for 30 years at a 5-1/2% interest rate; no interest
would be charged during the 15-year grace period. Hence, the effective interest
rate on the subloan over 30 years would be below 2%. The above financial
arrangements reflect the fact that in rubber projects yields only begin in
PY  8  and do not reach their maximum before PY 18.   The arrangements would
enable HEVECAM to meet its operating costs as well as debt service obligations
and to build up adequate balances out of self-generated funds.
viii.     Some preparatory work, involving advance contracting and amounting
to a maximum of US$0.4 million, had to be initiated prior to Board Presenta-
tion since, otherwise, a whole year of planting would have been lost. IDA
and CCCE would finance such expenditures retroactively to the extent that
eligible payments are made before signing.
Procurement
ix.       Procurement would be through international competitive bidding
(ICB) under IDA guidelines except for items mentioned below and individual
contracts not exceeding US$60,000, which would be let locally under competi-
tive bidding procedures advertised locally that would be agreed with IDA.
Goods manufactured in Cameroon and in countries which are a party to Central
African States Customs Union (UDEAC) would be granted a preference of up to
15%, subject to standard provisions, and prequalified Cameroonian contractors
a preference of 7-1/2%. Contracts for manual clearing of land, if arranged,
would be under these procedures. Otherwise, clearance would be mechanized
and carried out on force account, as would road building and other construc-
tion. Assuming that land clearance is mechanized, goods and services subject
to ICB -- largely machinery, vehicles and equipment and fertilizers -- are
estimated to cost US$5 million. This comparatively small amount reflects
the large component of project costs that comprises labor and management.
A minimum amount of land-clearing equipment, costing US$0.38 million, has
already been ordered under ICB, with IDA and CCCE approval, because deliv-
ery is expected to take 12 months and otherwise the project might have
been delayed. Arrangements for the provision of management services by
SAFACAM would be acceptable to IDA.



- iv -
Disbursement
x.        Disbursements by IDA and CCCE would be in the proportions 58:17.
Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover 58% of total expendi-
tures of the following items: (a) civil works and plantations--US$4.8 mil-
lion; (b) equipment and materials--US$2.2 million; (c) administration--
US$2.5 million; (d) food crop development--US$300,000; (e) technical assis-
tance--US$580,000; (f) project related studies--US$120,000; and (g) master
plan--US$700,000. US$4.8 million, representing contingencies, would be
unallocated. Disbursements would be on a standard documented basis includ-
ing, where appropriate, periodic work certificates, the full documentation
for which would be retained bv the Borrower and made available for inspec-
tion by the Association during the course of supervision. Any unused bal-
ance would be used to finance similar activities which have been reviewed
in the appraisal of this project.
Benefits and Justifications
xi.       The project would contribute to the realization of important
Government socio-economic development objectives. First, at peak produc-
tion, the completed 5,800 ha estate would produce 13,000 t of rubber (77%
of Cameroon's present output), a level that could be sustained for more
than 20 years without major replacements. Net foreign exchange earnings
of US$7 million would be generated each year, decreasing Cameroon's still
heavy reliance on two major export crops--cocoa and coffee, whose export
prospects are limited. Second, the project, being labor intensive, would
provide secure employment to 3,000 employees and their families--10-12,000
people in total--most of them from the north, and considerable improvement
in their standards of living. Satellite foodcrop production, trade and
transport activities would a'so develop. Third, it would help spread the
benefits of development more evenly among regions by opening up an area
with good potential for successful establishment of other estate and small-
holder plantations which would ultimately form a whole new agroindustrial
complex in the hinterland of the port of Krîbi.
xii.      The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at 14%.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that a cost increase of 10% would reduce the
rate to 12.5%; a 25% iricrease would reduce it to about 11%. A combined 10%
increase in costs and 10% decrease in benefits would decrease the return to
11%.  A combination of 20%' cost increase and 20% benefit decrease would
reduce the rate to nearly 8%. The rate of return is expected to be satis-
factory.
xiii.     The above calculations are based on the assumption that:  either
(a) the proposed project is planned and executed as the first phase of a
15,000 ha estate, in accordance with Government's present intentions; or
(b) that the estate is not enlarged beyond the 5,800 ha covered by the
proposed project and that the decision to do this will be taken early enough,
say in the first or second year, to enable the phasing of development to be
planned and executed in the most economic way. In both cases the rate of



v -
return is the same to the nearest percentage point, since there are only
minor economies of scale in the development of such large areas. Detailed
tables (in the annexes) have been prepared on the assumption that the full
15,000 ha would be developed.
xiv.      It is possible that changes in market prospects may lead to a
decision to restrict the size of the estate to 5,800 ha only in the 4th
or 5th year of the project. In this case, the rate of return would fall
to about 11% because the timing of investments would have been appropriate
to the larger estate and heavier in the early years. Separate rate of
return and cash flow calculations have been prepared on this assumption.
xv.       The progress of the project, and of the preparation work for a
possible second phase, would be reviewed annually with Government and CCCE,
in order that a decision on the final size of the estate can be arrived at
as early as possible.
xvi.      The project would entail the risk that, as a pioneering venture in
an unexploited region, there can be no certainty that a satisfactory labor
force would be created. It is highly probable that labor from overpopulated
areas would be attracted by the regular wages offered by the estate. The
danger is that, if proper measures are not taken to make their lives satis-
factory, they would return to their home villages. The project provides
for the housing, health and education facilities that would be the best safe-
guard against such risk.
Recommendation
xvii.     Subject to the assurances and conditions set forth in Chapter 8,
the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$16 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has asked the assistance of IDA and the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) to finance part of
the costs of the first phase of developing a large rubber estate near Kribi
in the sparsely populated and undeveloped southwest of the country. The
Kribi region is suitable for tree crops, and the project would initiate a
25-year development program for exploiting this potential.
1.02      Initially, Government asked IDA and CCCE to appraise the estab-
lishment of a 15,000 ha rubber estate. The proposed objective appears to
be economically sound but inflation makes it impossible to produce a firm
and realistic financial plan for the 16 years needed to develop such a
large undertaking. It is therefore proposed to provide finance for five
years, encompassing the planting of 5,800 ha of rubber as well as prepara-
tory work for subsequent development. As Government sees the project
appraised in this report as a first step in establishing a 15,000 ha
estate, the financial and economic data show the projected results both
of the larger estate and of the proposed project.
1.03      The project was prepared by and would be implemented by the Societe
Africaine Forestiere et Agricole--Cameroun (SAFACAM), a company registered in
Cameroon. SAFACAM is a member of an international group of plantation compa-
nies, and owns a rubber estate in Cameroon.  It was assisted in project prep-
aration by: SATET for topographic studies, ENSA for pedological studies,
IRCA for rubber agronomy, and IRAT and SEDA for food crop agronomy. 1/  This
report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Cameroon in
November/December 1974, and whose members were Messrs. Losson, Leduc, Palein,
and Winston; Mr. Forget (Legal) was with the mission part of the time. The
mission worked closely with the CCCE evaluation team, composed of Messrs.
Cantournet and Bailliez, who visited the country at the same time. Two
staff members of SAFACAM were present during the entire mission.
1.04      The Bank Group has given assistance to five agricultural projects
in Cameroon, as follows: (1) the CAMDEV plantation project (Loan 490-CM
for US$7.0 million and Credit 100-CM for US$11.0 million) in 1967; (2) the
SOCAPALM oil palm plantation project (Loan 593-CM for US$7.9 million) in
1969 and (Loan 886-CM for US$1.7 million) in 1973; (3) the SEMRY rice
project (Credit 302-CM for US$3.7 million) in 1972; (4) a livestock project
(Loan 973-CM for US$11.6 million) in 1974; and (5) a cocoa project (Loan
1039-CM for US$6.5 million) in 1975. Until 1973, the CAMDEV project exper-
ienced cost increases, lower than expected income from nonproject plantings,
and excessive overheads. In 1973, economy measures were introduced which,
coupled with better management and commodity prices, have improved CAMDEV's
cash position to one of considerable strength. The SOCAPALM project started
well, but had to be reappraised due to inflation, and because one of two
1/   See Frontispiece for full names of these organizations.



- 2 -
development sites was found unsatisfactory. The project was reduced from
9,000 to 8,500 ha, but estimated production and economic benefits remain
unchanged as both yields and prices of oil palm products are now expected
to exceed appraisal forecasts; the project is on schedule. The Semry rice
project started on schedule and is progressing satisfactorily. The live-
stock project is only now getting under way. The cocoa project became
effective in February 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The United Republic of Cameroon comprises a French-speaking eastern
part (with 80% of the population), and an English-speaking western part. The
country covers about 475,000 km2. Population in 1972 was estimated at 6.1
million, growing at about 2.1% per year. Migration to the cities, where
unemployment is growing rapidly, accounts for their annual growth of about
7%.  There are also interregional movements from overpopulated areas to fer-
tile but empty zones. Per capita GDP is estimated at around US$230 (1973).
2.02      Cameroon's natural resources are varied, although not abundant.
Soils and climatic conditions permit cultivation of a wider range of crops
than is commonly found in West Africa; the forest areas of the southeast
contain large untapped timber resources, and in the north there is good
potential for livestock. While the main opportunities for development lie
in the expansion of agricultural production, Cameroon also has an industrial
potential. This includes not only the production of import substitutes for
a growing domestic market, but also the processing of alumina and agricul-
tural and forestry products for export. A bauxite project is in its early
stages of preparation, while offshore oil and gas exploration has so far
yielded only modest results.
2.03      Commerce, transportation and transit services are also important
economic activities: Cameroon is a relatively large country with its main
economic centers separated by vast underpopulated areas, and the country
serves as a main export route for landlocked Chad. As a result, large
investments in port and inland transport infrastructure are prerequisites
to promoting agriculture, forestry, and industry, and strengthening
Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
2.04       In the early 1970s, economic growth slowed down to less than 3%
per year or little more than population growth. This was caused by (i)
low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971-72 and a drought in the
north, and (ii) a decline in private investment due to the relative stagna-
tIon of the agricultural sector, in addition to the completion of the most
obvious lmport substitution projects during the preceding decade. The Gov-
ernment reacted by stepping up public investment, whose volume increased by
50% to reach annual averages of about US$200 million (constant 1973/74



-3-
dollars) during the Third Development Plan (FY 72-76) and resulted in a
substantial drawdown of Treasury reserves and a major increase in foreign
borrowing. Fortunately, the availability of well-prepared high priority
projects enabled Cameroon to obtain most of the lncreased inflow of foreign
capital from public aid donors on concessionary terms. However, the terms
of trade are now deteriorating and foreign exchange reserves seem to have
diminished rapidly during the first half of PY 75, announcing an era of
more severe balance of payments and public finance problems.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.05      Agriculture plays a major role in Cameroon's economy, providing
a livelihood for almost 80% of the population and accounting for 32% of
GDP and 70% of the value of exports. Cameroon is largely self-sufficient
in foodstuffs except for rice and wheat which are being imported in increas-
ing amounts, and to a lesser extent sugar and meat. The agricultural sector
can be divided into two major subsectors, the traditional and the industrial
plantation. The traditional subsector, accounting for 90% of agricultural
output, is comprised of 950,000 smallholders cultivating plots averaging
about 2 ha with family labor. Smallholders produce for subsistence, for
the local market, and for export (cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts).
2.06      Prospects for developing smallholder agriculture are promising.
Development of this sector has been thus far hampered by the weakness of
extension and credit services. Agricultural credit consists largely of
short-term marketing loans for the main export crops and production credit
for participants in specific export crop development programs. The Fonds
National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) was recently created to expand
and coordinate rural development programs and agricultural credit in close
association with extension services. However, its establishment is too
recent to judge its effectiveness. The prospects for plantation crops are
also favorable, as discussed in Chapter 3.
2.07      The government capacity for project preparation and implementation
in the rural sector is weak. Recently, however, the Government has taken a
variety of measures aimed at creating stronger and more effective regional
or crop development agencies, and plans to increase substantially investment
in agriculture. While rural investment accounted for less than 15% of total
capital outlay during the Third Development Plan (FY 72-76), agricultural
and livestock projects may absorb about 20 - 25% of the Fourth Plan currently
being prepared. It would be practically impossible to achieve this Govern-
ment objective without taking advantage of the opportunity to invest in
plantation crops.
2.08      The Bank's strategy in the rural sector aims at developing both
industrial plantations and smallholder schemes. In the past, Bank Group
lending to CAMDEV (FY 67) and SOCAPALM (FY 69) was followed by loans or



-4 -
credits for rice irrigation (FY 72), a livestock project (FY 74), and a
cocoa project (FY 75). The proposed rubber project is expected to be
followed by rural development projects in FY 77 and FY 78.
III. DEVELOPMENT OF ESTATE AND OUTGROWER AGRICULTURE
3.01      The main estate crops are oil palm and rubber:  about 60,000 t
of palm oil (including that from wild palms) and 17,000 t of rubber were
produced in 1973/74. The existing estates are concentrated in the western
and coastal lowlands in two state-owned plantations: CAMDEV--30,000 ha;
SOCAPALM--7,000 ha planted and a further 7,500 ha to be completed by late
1977; and two private plantations: SAFACAM--6,000 ha; PAMOL--7,000 ha.
CAMDEV and SOCAPALM have carried out extensive oil palm plantings in recent
years under projects partly financed by the Bank Group; by 1985, palm oil
production is expected to exceed 100,000 t, most of which will be consumed
locally. Establishment of smallholder satellite oil palm plantations around
industrial estates is an objective of the Bank-financed oil palm projects.
3.02      To a large extent, Cameroon's rubber plantations are based on the
experience of the Southeast Asian industry.  Although planting and cultiva-
tion methods have gradually been adapted to local conditions, there is a
need for more adaptive research and also for a better knowledge of rubber
technology on the part of Cameroonian personnel. The proposed project
would help in both these respects.
3.03      At present the estate crops are being developed mainly by state-
owned companies because the small private estate sector, which is foreign-
owned, is reluctant to increase substantially its own investment 1/; and
there is not much likelihood that a nationally owned private estate sector
will come into existence in the foreseeable future. Further, the state-
owned companies are successful ventures with efficient managements. For
these reasons, it would be realistic to plan for further development to
be carried out by state-owned companies, bringing each to the size of a
large, modern estate company. An Association of planters, including the
existing companies, is being formed, and it would be logical and desirable
for the new rubber estate company, HEVECAM, to become a member. It is
envisaged that the association would provide common services related to
imports and exports, air transport, etc., and provide a medium for ex-
change and dissemination of know-how and other matters of common interest.
3.04      The present project would be only the first step of a much larger
program for the southwest region. This region extends about 100 km along
the southern coast, from some 30 km north of Kribi, to the border with
1/   Exceptionally, SAFACAM is investing about 10% of net receipts to
extend its estate at Edea.



-5-
continental Equatorial Guinea, and inland about 45 km (see Map 1). The
climate is suitable for a range of tree crops, including rubber; experimen-
tal plantings of rubber made many years ago are today healthy and remarkably
well developed. The land is flat or gently undulating, with soils suitable
for rubber, and is almost completely unpopulated. This lack of population
is due to the density of the forest, and historical factors such as tribal
conflicts which, however, are no longer a barrier to development. As a
conservative estimate, at least 30% of the total area of roughly 500,000
ha--say 150,000 ha--should be suitable for tree crops. Development of the
area should begin with estates, as the labor needed, together with their
families, would form the core of a permanent population for this empty but
fertile area. A series of second generation projects would encourage
outgrowers, once the base for their successful establishment had been laid.
3.05      This phasing of development is justified because (a) nuclear
estates are necessary in any case, (b) they support development of infra-
structure and the acquisition of agronomic know-how, and (c) outgrower
development can be accomplished at a much lower cost if postponed until
nuclear estates are well established.
3.06      From now to the turn of the century, it is possible to envisage
successive "rollover" projects developing some 100,000 ha or more. Oil
palm and coconut as well as rubber would be considered for development.
At completion, such a program could provide some 50,000 or more jobs for
wage-hungry persons coming from overcrowded and impoverished areas. This
would directly or indirectly support 300,000 or so people. To feed this
increasing population, there would have to be substantial food crop devel-
opment, exploitation of the rich-but-neglected fishing resources of the
coastal area, and promotion of commercial poultry and pig raising. Because
the area is infested by tsetse fly, cattle production is not envisaged for
the initial development period; this infestation, however, poses no serious
problems of human health.
3.07      The total investment in estate and outgrower development is ten-
tatively and roughly estimated at CFAF 100 billion (US$444 million), of
which about half might be financed by retained earnings. Generating fi-
nance for future investments and for its own renewal is one of the attrac-
tions of investment in estate crops.
3.08      To take advantage of and preserve the opportunity offered by the
Kribi area, a master plan for development of the area should be prepared as
soon as possible. This plan would be based on a land-use survey and in
addition should:
(a) take account of the need to achieve a balanced development
of industrial estates and outgrowers;
(b) consider the creation of a specialized organization for
land clearance, which would be required on a large scale; and



- 6 -
(c) encompass a study of the long-term infrastructure and trans-
portation needs of the development program.
This transport study would have to consider, in particular, the roles to
be played by Douala, the country's maith port, and Kribi harbor, or alter-
native sltes; firm recommendations should be ready by the end of 1978,
before further planting programs were finalized. The general scope of
and arrangements for the master plan were agreed with the Government
during negotiations (Annex 1).
3.09      There are an estimated 3,000 forest-dwelling pygmies in Ocean
Department whose way of life might be impinged upon by such a large-scale
development program.  An assurance was obtained from Government that the
welfare of the pygmies would be considered in the preparation of the master
plan.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
Location and General Features
4.01      The project area lies within the northern section of 40,000 ha set
aside by Government 25 km east of the coastal town of Kribi, and to the south
of the Kribi-Ebolowa road. The northern boundary of the concession begins
at Angale, and extends 20 km to Elon. A corridor along the road has been
excluded to allow for settlement by food crop farmers. The precise bounda-
ries of the concession are shown on Map 2. The 40,000 ha parcel was declared
by Government to be "collective national endowment" land under Decree 74/615
of July 2, 1974. An assurance was obtained that all facilities and title
to or rights in respect of land required for the carrying out and operating
of the projeer would be provided promptly, and free of restrictions, encum-
brances, and liabilities on its use thereof. No difficulties are foreseen.
4.02      Detailed topographic and soil surveys have already identified
about 10,000 ha of land in the north of the concession that would be suit-
able for project plantings. lhe proposed site lies about 20 meters above
sea level, io gently undulating, and has some swampy areas in its lowest
parts. Tre area has been heavily logged, and as a consequence the predo-
minant vegetation is light forest. In general, climatic and soil conditions
compare favorâbly with those in the major rubber-producing countries of the
Far East.
4.03      The east-west boundary points of the concession area are situated,
respectively, on isohyets 2,700 mm and 2,400 mm.  Dry months are January
and February, when precipitation is about 25% of the monthly average. Tem-
peratures average about 260C, and the range is small.  Winds that threaten
damage to rubber trees may occur after or before the rainy season; this
risk would oe reduced in the project by the selection of clones resistant



-7-
to wind damage, the careful alignment of the planting blocks with regard to
wind direction, and high density of plantings per hectare.
Communications
4.04      The estate center would be connected with the national road network
via a 12-km access road to be buîlt under the project. A good unpaved road
connects with Kribi, 33 Ion to the west, and with Ebolowa 138 km to the east.
The connection with Ebolowa offers a convenient route to Yaounde, for liaison
with Government, and for transport coming by this route from the north. The
most immediate transport problem concerns heavy trucks traversing the route
from Kribi to Douala, via Edea. The road has both dirt and asphalt sections.
Dirt sections, which are in very poor condition, are scheduled to be asphalted
by the roads department; but the asphalt section between Edea and Douala is
also in poor condition. The bridge across the Sanaga River, at Edea, is
being replaced; until completion, in perhaps three years, the railway's per-
mission would have to be secured to allow heavy trucks supplying the estate
to pass over the available span. An airstrip exists at Kribi and another
would be cleared (PY3) on the estate; considerable use of air transport is
envisaged for personnel and light materials. The relative advantages of
shipping through Kribi or Douala are finely balanced. Kribi is at a river
mouth, and requires lighterage to service ocean-going ships anchored off-
shore. Douala has direct loading at the quays but the additional cost of
road transport to Douala would be significant, particularly in the rainy
season. For costing purposes, it has been tentatively assumed nevertheless
that rubber exports would go to Douala. Future transport facilities would
be studied as part of a regional plan (para 3.08). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it would take all meas-
ures necessary to improve the roads and bridges to assure year-round through-
traffic between Douala and Kribi by December 31, 1976, and that permission
would be granted to use the present bridge.
Power
4.05      A high-voltage line on the national grid is scheduled to be con-
structed from Edea, where a power complex exists, to the Kribi area. It
is assumed that this source of electricity would be available eventually
to supply the estate processing factory; if not, the installation of a
generator at the factory would be possible at only slightly higher cost.
Mobile generators would be used in the early years for the estate vil-
lages.
Labor and Social Services
4.06      During the first year or two of development, a nucleus of laborers
could be recruited and trucked to work daily from Kribi and the few small
villages along the road to Ebolowa. Later in the project period, however,
labor for land clearance, planting and maintenance would have to be recruited
from the more populated regions of Cameroon. The principles to be followed
in recruitment are set out in Annex 2. Considering that wages would be much



-8-
higher than from alternative employment in the recruitment regions, there is
every reason to anticipate recruitment of an adequate work force.
4.07      At present, the project area has neither the housing nor social
infrastructure to accommodate a large population. Schools and hospitals as
well as adequate housing would have to be provided; in addition, a full range
of social activities such as sports, cinema, etc., would be organized under
the project. From experience on other estates in Cameroon, such amenities
are known to be an important feature in attracting and keeping a satisfac-
tory work force.
4.08      All salaries and wages paid by the estate would be subject to
relevant Government legislation. The minimum legal wage (presently CFAF
224/day--US$1.00) would be the predominant wage during the planting period.
In later years, after tapping begins, the system would permit skilled workers
to earn substantial bonuses.
B. Summary Description
4.09      The project comprises the first phase of development--1975/76
through 1979/80--of a large rubber estate. It would include:
(a) clearing 5,800 ha and planting them with high yielding rubber;
preparation of land for a further 1,700 ha to be planted in
1980/81 in a second phase of development; and maintenance of
the 5,800 ha of plantings for the duration of the five-year
project development period;
(b)  conducting establishment and yield trials with different
clones of rubber, and agronomic research if required;
(c) constructing housing, health, education, and the social
facilities for about 3,000 estate families; and service
roads for the estate;
(d) establishing a commissariat to ensure food supplies to
estate employees, and also to supervise trials with
foodcrops;
(e)  establishing and staffing a state-owned company to own and
operate the estate; and employing a suitably qualified firm
to:
(i) manage the new company,
(il) prepare a follow-up project, including continuation
of pedological and topological studies, and



- 9 -
(iii) train Cameroonians at all levels of responsibility on
the estate; and
(f) preparing a master plan for the development of the Kribi region
which emphasizes the production of perennial crops.
The estate would be owned and operated by a Government-owned corporation,
HEVECAM, which would employ the management services of SAFACAM, a Cameroon-
ian estate-operating company which is itself affiliated with SOCFIN, a well-
known international corporation specializing in tropical estate productioh
and sales (Annex 3).
Phasing
4.10      Government sees the proposed 5,800 ha project as a first step in
establishing a 15,000 ha estate. If for some reason Government's plans
did not materialize, the rubber planted under the project would need to be
brought into full production, requiring seven years and further investment.
Rubber trees must be maintained for six years before being tapped, and thus
those planted in PY 5 would not be prepared for tapping until PY 12. A
decision on the scale and type of processing facilities would be made in
PY 6.  The Government would assume responsibility for creation of a com-
pleted estate (para 5.08).
C. Detailed Features
The Planting Program_(Annex 2)
4.11      Land clearing would start one year in advance of planting.  The
schedule for the planting program would be as follows:
Hectares Cleared and Planted
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    Total
Cleared /1        300       700       1,500      2,500     2,500      7,500
Planted             -        600        900      1,800     2,500      5,800
/1   Net of roads, housing sites and boundaries; these together would
add some 16% to the figures given.
Of 2,500 ha cleared in 1979/80, 1,700 ha would be made ready for planting
the following year in the second-phase project if such further planting is
confirmed to be justified.



- 1o -
4.12      For agronomic reasons, felling of the primary forest and clearing
of planting lines would preferably be done by hand labor. Such work has
been satisfactorily carried out by Cameroonian private contractors in other
parts of the country, and this means would be the first choice for clear-
ance of the proposed estate. If private contractors should not be attracted
at a reasonable price, or should prove unsatisfactory, the estate management
would have the option of clearing the land on force account using mechanized
equipment. Some crawler tractors would be needed in any case, since they
could be used for road construction and civil works, and thus two tractors
are expected to be delivered in Year 2. Should clearing by mechanized equip-
ment prove necessary, a total of 13 heavy-duty tractors would be provided
under the project.
4.13      The estate would be divided into four sectors of about 3,750 ha
each, and each of these into four divisions of 900-1,000 ha. Planting par-
cels would be units of about 100 ha, which would be aligned to conform with
the topography and thus take account of steep slopes or streams. As far as
practical, the planting lines would be on an east-west axis, the prevailing
wind direction. Planting would be on a 7.5 x 2.4 m grid, giving an initial
density of 555 trees per hectare. Simple earthwork drains would be con-
structed as needed.
4.14      Planting material would be produced by the estate.  As an advance
measure, a budwood garden was prepared and planted in 1974/75. No problems
are expected in obtaining adequate supplies of rubber seed for root stocks,
cover-crop seed, and budwood for budding the root stock, as these are avail-
able from IRCA and other rubber estates in Cameroon. Four clones would be
used for budding: PR 107 (45% of plantings), GT 1 (30%), PB 86 (15%), and
PB 5/51 (10%); these proportions might be varied on the basis of experience.
The PR 107 clone is favored because it thrives on relatively acid soils such
as found on the estate site.
4.15      The favored planting technique would be to plant seed directly in
the sail, with up to 16 seed at each planting point so that a progressive
selection of the seedlings could be made. This method has the advantage of
siinplicity, as the single seedling eventually remaining would be available
for budding at any time from eight to 18 months after initial planting. The
seedling would be budded with one of the clones listed in para 4.14. However,
this system is not free from the risk of damage by animals, such as rats and
other rodents, that eat rubber seedlings. For this reason, one-third of the
plantings would be with root-stock seedlings grown in plastic sacks in a
nursery and with two seedlings to the sack. These seedlings would be budded,
and the less vigorously growing plant of the two would be removed in due
course.
4.16      Following planting of the cover crop, further operations would
be the maintenance of the plantings -- mostly by hand weeding and machete
slashing, and perhaps by mechanized equipment. Natural losses and thinnings
would reduce the initial stand of 555 to a satisfactory 450 plants/ha on
average at maturity.



Clone Field Trials
4.17      Selection of the four clones to be used for the plantation is based
on 20-year yield data from numerous locations.  There are other clones that
have promising characteristices, and which might prove to be better suited to
conditions in all or part of the project area. A preliminary list of 13 such
clones has been selected and it is proposed that field trials involving plant-
ing 5-10 ha with each of these clones should be instituted under the project.
Details are in Annex 2.
Utilities. Rousing and Amenities, and Infrastructure
4.18      Construction of a central village, starting in 1976/77, would
provide accommodations for managerial staff and labor; offices and stores;
and initially one school and one wing of the project hospital. The process-
ing facilities would eventually be located close to the village site but
would not be needed until PY 8. Five satellite villages -- of 16 sched-
uled -- would be built with work beginning in 1975/76. The central vil-
lage would be equipped with a permanent water supply and initially a tem-
porary electric power source. This latter would be replaced with a permanent
power source (see para 4.05). Each satellite village would have electricity,
water supply, shelter for storage and markets, and a social meeting hall.
Amenities for staff would be two club houses, with appropriate facilities;
construction would be initiated under the proposed project.
4.19      About 120 km of plantation roads would be built under the project,
including the main access road (para 4.04). Most project plantings would be
accessible from a good existing logging road, and satisfactory arrangements
have been made for the use of this road (it would in time become redundant).
Plantation roads would be built to minimum standards, and upgraded in later
years (Annex 2, Table 2).
Food Supply Unit
4.20      A commissariat would be needed to supply the estate population,
possibly amounting to eventually 25,000-30,000 people, with foodstuffs.  A
preliminary study by SEDA, under FAC finance, recomended that HEVECAM should
test over several years the feasibility of organized food production in the
concession area. To this end, plots would be prepared and planted with food-
crops such as rainfed rice (especially in swampy areas not suitable for
rubber), malze, rootcrops, plantain, vegetables, groundnuts, and fruit. It
would be decided by PY 5 whether and to what extent food production would be
organized within the concession. Subject to this decision, the commissariat
would operate along the following lines:
-    Commercial channels would be utilized to establish a regular
supply of specific foods, in general from major sources of
production for each product:  rice from Semry, oil from Mbongo,
sugar from Mbandjok, etc.



- 10 -
4.12      For agronomie reasons, felling of the primary forest and clearing
of planting lines would preferably be done by hand labor. Such work has
been satisfactorily carried out by Cameroonian private contractors in other
parts of the country, and this means would be the first choice for clear-
a*ce of the proposed estate. If private contractors should not be attracted
at a reasonable price, or should prove unsatisfactory, the estate management
would have the option of clearing the land on force account using mechanized
equipment. Some crawler tractors would be needed in any case, since they
could be used for road construction and civil works, and thus two tractors
are expected to be delivered in Year 2. Should clearing by mechanized equip-
ment prove necessary, a total of 13 heavy-duty tractors would be provided
under the project.
4.13      The estate would be divided into four sectors of about 3,750 ha
each, and each of these into four divisions of 900-1,000 ha. Planting par-
cels would be units of about 100 ha, which would be aligned to conform with
the topography and thus take account of steep slopes or streams. As far as
practical, the planting lines would be on an east-west axis, the prevailing
wind direction. Planting would be on a 7.5 x 2.4 m grid, giving an initial
density of 555 trees per hectare. Simple earthwork drains would be con-
structed as needed.
4.14      Planting material would be produced by the estate.  As an advance
measure, a budwood garden was prepared and planted in 1974/75. No problems
are expected in obtaining adequate supplies of rubber seed for root stocks,
cover-crop seed, and budwood for budding the root stock, as these are avail-
able from IRCA and other rubber estates in Cameroon. Four clones would be
used for budding: PR 107 (45% of plantings), GT 1 (30%), PB 86 (15%), and
PB 5/51 (10%); these proportions might be varied on the basis of experience.
The PR 107 clone is favored because it thrives on relatively acid soils such
as found on the estate site.
4.15      The favored planting technique would be to plant seed directly in
the soil, with up to 16 seed at each planting point so that a progressive
selection of the seedlings could be made. This method has the advantage of
simplicity, as the single seedling eventually remaining would be available
for budding at any time from eight to 18 months after initial planting. The
seedling would be budded with one of the clones listed in para 4.14. However,
this system is not free from the risk of damage by animals, such as rats and
other rodents, that eat rubber seedlings. For this reason, one-third of the
plantings would be with root-stock seedlings grown in plastic sacks in a
nursery and with two seedlings to the sack. These seedlings would be budded,
and the less vigorously growing plant of the two would be removed in due
course.
4.16      Following planting of the cover crop, further operations would
be the maintenance of the plantings -- mostly by hand weeding and machete
slashing, and perhaps by mechanized equipment. Natural losses and thinnings
would reduce the initial stand of 555 to a satisfactory 450 plants/ha on
average at maturity.



- 13 -
cases that might increase the obligations of Government under the Credit
Agreement; an assurance on this point was obtained from Government during
negotiations. In other respects, HEVECAM would function as a normal com-
mercial entity.
Management
4.25      HEVECAM would be managed by a Director General, who would have
full autonomy in day-to-day operations. Below the Director General, there
would be four departments: Medical; Administrative, charged with accounting,
purchases and sales, and personnel; Industrial, charged with the factory,
workshops and garage; and Technical. The key positions are those of Direc-
tor General and Managers of the Technical, Administrative and Industrial
Departments; assurances were obtained at negotiations that appointment to
these positions would be subject to IDA's approval. The field organization
would have four sector chiefs, each in charge of about 3,750 ha of rubber;
and 16 division chiefs, four for each sector. The field organization would
initially be managed by the Director General, with advisory support from
the Technical Director. Eventually, since the estate may expand to a large
size, it probably would be desirable to create a Deputy Director/Field Man-
agerts post; this post is shown on the Organization Chart (IBRD-9584) but
has not been costed into the proposed project.
4.26      The Director General and other senior staff would be provided under
contract by la Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole-Cameroun (SAFACAM) as
part of a management and technical assistance agreement (Annex 3, Appendix 1).
Most, if not all of these persons would be expatriates because there are few
Cameroonians with the requisite experience and those that have are engaged
in other estate enterprises. Although SAFACAM would not be prevented from
recruiting personnel from these other enterprises, it could meet only a
small portion of its requirements in this way. All personnel supplied by
SAFACAM would be subject to the approval of HEVECAM's Board and, once
appointed, would be considered as employees of HEVECAM.
4.27      Under the technical assistance agreement, the Director General
would call on SAFACAM for assistance in drawing up annual work programs
and other directives including:
-    definition of the areas to be planted;
-    specification of planting and maintenance techniques;
-    establishment and management of estate services;
-    development of infrastructure and installations;
-    specification of tapping and other production
techniques; and
-    training schedules.



- 14 -
SAFACAM would also provide visiting experts to make inspections of project
activities every six months and report their observations to HEVECAM. Such
experts probably would be recruited from estate companies affiliated with
SAFACAM.
4.28      Under the contract, SAFACAM would be remunerated according to a
formula based on a fixed annual fee and the level of investments made during
the previous year. It is considered that this formula, which is of the kind
generally used in the industry, would provide a balanced incentive for good
management. The initial contract would be for eight years, renewable every
four years. IDA has reviewed and approved a draft of the management con-
tract, whose signing would be a condition of effectiveness. This contract
and any proposed modifications would be acceptable to IDA, and assurances
on this point were obtained during negotiations. Details are in Annex 3.
Staff, Labor and Training
4.29      Project staffing schedules are at Annex 2.  Supervisory and pro-
fessional staff would increase from five in PY 1 to 25 in PY 12.  Profes-
sional and experienced staff likely to be supplied from outside Cameroon
are expected to rise from three in PY 1 to 15 in PY 5, and thereafter to
decline to five by PY 12, although the actual pace of Cameroonization
would depend on the success of training programs and overall Government
policy. SAFACAM would undertake a contractual obligation to train
Cameroonians to replace expatriates in line with an agreed schedule
(para 4.32).
4.30      The number of junior staff and workers would increase from 178 in
1976 to about 2,300 in 1980, at completion of the 5,800 ha plantings, and to
full employment of about 7,500 in 1998 assuming completion of a 15,000 ha
estate. Experience on other rubber estates in Cameroon is that a satisfac-
tory labor force can be successfully trained for plantation work, including
tapping which is the most important labor function on a rubber estate.
Apart from clerical staff, which would be mostly trained outside the proj-
ect, SAFACAM would organize appropriate training programs for its work force.
4.31      The estate staff would include doctors and other personnel for
the medical services, and these would be provided for under the project.
Teachers for the project schools would be provided and paid for by the
Ministry of Education, and an assurance that this would be done according
to a schedule agreed with IDA was obtained from Government at negotiations.
Recruitment and Training of Universitv Graduates
4.32      Development of the Kribi area will call for the training of sub-
stantial numbers of Cameroonians in rubber agronomy, technology, and estate
management. It would be very desirable to give young university recruits
on-the-job training and experience that would give them a sound introduction
co the industry, and enable management to prepare training and career pro-
e.ns for future leaders. For management posts, university graduates would



- 15 -
be recruited and trained for at least one year in the field, in assignments
that would allow them to learn the day-to-day work of the estate. For the
technical department, science-curriculum graduates would be recruited and,
after their first year in the field, would be sent abroad for a stay in
the established technical department of an estate company. The training
program would be submitted to IDA from time to time, with review by super-
vision missions, and an assurance on this point was obtained at negotiations.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.33      HEVECAM would maintain records consistent with sound accounting
practices and adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition.
The accounts would be audited by both the Government auditor and by an
independent professional firm of auditors. Such an arrangement is prac-
ticed by SOCAPALM, an oil palm company financed by the Bank (para 3.01),
successfully. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a)
an independent firm satisfactory to IDA would be employed to audit HIEVECAM
accounts; (b) the form of audit would be agreed with IDA; (c) copies of
HEVECAM's accounts and the auditors' reports thereon would be submitted
to IDA within four months of the end of each financial year; and (d) that
the auditor's report would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA may
reasonably have requested. Further details on the audit arrangements are
at Annex 4. HEVECAM's financial year would be July 1 to June 30.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      The cost of this first phase of rubber development, including
regional studies, would be CFAF 5,220 million (US$23.2 million) net of
taxes. The total cost would be CFAF 6,415 million (US$28.5 million)
including taxes (US$5.3 million) as summarized below:



- 16 -
CFAF Million             US$ Million          Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
Pl&ntation Development          723      523   1,246   3.3       2.3     5.6        42
Materials and Equipment          84      753      837   0.4      3.4     3.8        90
Buildings and Construction    336        275     611   1.5       1.2     2.7        45
Fi*ed Expenditures:
Professional Staff:
- Expatriate                185      277     462   0.8      1.2      2.0        60
- Local                      69       17      86   0.3      0.1      0.4        20
Other Local Staff            87       16     103   0.4      0.1      0.5        16
Water and Power              27'    49        76   0.1      0.2      0.3        65
Other Administrative        185      226     411   0.8      1.0      1.8        55
Food Crop Development            52       78      130   0.2      0.4     0.6        60
Project Related Studies          20       30       50   0.1      0.1     0.2        60
Technical Assistance (SAFACAM) 45        182      227   0.2      0.8     1.0        80
Regional Studies                 83      192      275   0.3      0.9     1.2        70
Base Cost Estimate          1,896   2,618   4,514   8.4    11.7    20.1           58
Physical Contingencies           95      131     226   0.4       0.6     1.0        58
Expected Price Increases        703      972   1,675   3.1      4.3      7.4        58
Subtotal                      798   1,103   1,901   3.5       4.9      8.4        58
TOTAL PROJECT COST          2,694   3,721   6,415  11.9    16.6    28.5           58
5.02      Cost estimates are based on prices ruling at the end of 1974, and
on recent experience of rubber development projects in Cameroon and other
Aftican countries. They exclude import duties; a confirmation of Govern-
ment's intentions to exclude project imports from such duties was obtained
during negotiations. The cost estimates also provide for: (a) a physical
contingency of 5%; and (b) expected price increases at the following annual
colnpounded rates for both local and foreign costs: for building and civil
warks, 16% in PY 1, 14% in PY 2, 12% in PY 3 to 5; for equipment, including
vehicles, and all other costs, 12% in PY 1, 10% in PY 2, and 8% in PY 3 to
5. Total contingencies amount to 42% of the estimated base costs.



- 17 -
B. Financial Arrangements
Proposed Financing
5.03      The project would be financed by Government, IDA and the French
CCCE.  The proposed financing plan is summarized below:
Project Component                  IDA    CCCE  Government   Total
---US$ Million-----------
Plantation Development             3.2       .9     1.5         5.6
Materials and Equipment            2.2       .6     1.0         3.8
Buildings and Construction         1.6       .4    0.7          2.7
Fixed Expenditures                 2.5       .7     1.8         5.0
Food Crop Development              0.3       .1      .2         0.6
Project Related Studies            0.1       .1      -          0.2
Technical Assistance               0.6       .2      .2         1.0
Subtotal                     10.5     3.0      5.4       18.9
Regional Studies                   0.7       .2     0.3         1.2
Total Base Costs             11.2     3.2      5.7       20.1
Contingencies                      4.8      1.2     2.4         8.4
Total                        16.0     4.4      8.12/     28.5
Percentages (including taxes)      56%L/   16%      28%        100%
/1   Government's share includes US$0.8 million of corporate fees to be fully
paid by Government.  Excluding these fees, IDA's financing share would be 58%.
5.04      Excluding taxes of about US$5.3 million, or about 18% of project
costs, the IDA credit would finance about 69% of project costs net of taxes,
almost equivalent to the foreign exchange costs; CCCE's contribution, about
19% net of taxes; and Government's contribution about 12% of project costs
net of taxes.
5.05      Part of Government's contribution would be made as equity payments
from its development budget. Conditions of effectiveness would be that: (a)
a first equity contribution of CFAF 300 million had been paid by Government,
i and (b) a schedule for the payment of the remainder of Government's contri-
bution had been agreed by Government and IDA, and (c) a CCCE loan agreement
to Government, satisfactory to IDA, had been concluded. To ensure that
adequate funds would be available, an assurance was obtained from the Gov-
ernment that HEVECAM's cash and bank balances, including undrawn overdraft
facilities guaranteed by Government, would at all times cover HEVECAM's
expenditures during the four-month period following, but in any event be not
less than CFAF 300 million. This assurance is essential because rubber
prices have a long history of fluctuating substantially, and a drop to the
levels of the late 1960's could cause severe financial strains for HEVECAM.



- 18 -
5.06      The proposed IDA credit would be for US$16 million, made to the
United Republic of Cameroon on standard terms, and would cover 56% of total costs
including taxes and US$0.8million in corporate fees which would be paid by Govern-
ment.   CCCE would lend US$4.45 million equivalent to Government, for a term
of 20 years, including 10 years of grace, with interest at 5.5%; the CCCE
loan would finance 16% of total costs. Government would finance the remaining
28% of total costs. About US$15.1 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit
together with the CCCE and Government contributions would be made available
to HEVECAM as equity (45%) and a subloan (55%). The equity contribution of
US$12.2 million would consist of US$3.5 million IDA funds, US$7.7 million
Government funds, and US$1.0 million Caisse loan funds. The subloan of
US$14.8 million would consist of US$11.6 million IDA funds and US$3.2
million of CCCE loan funds, and would be made by the Government to HEVECAM
under a Project Financing Agreement that is a condition of effectiveness of
the credit. The proposed subloan would be for 30 years at a 5-1/2% interest
rate; no interest would be charged during the 15-year grace period. Hence,
the effective interest rate on the subloan over 30 years would be below 2%.
The above financial arrangements reflect the fact that in rubber projects
yields only begin in PY 8 and do not reach their maximum before py 18.
The arrangements would enable HEVECAM to meet its operating costs as well
as debt service obligations and to build up adequate cash balances out of
self-generated funds.
Advance Contracting and Possible Retroactive Financing
5.07      Some preparatory work, involving advance contracting and amounting
to a maximum of US$0.4 million (para 5.09), had to be initiated prior to
Board Presentation since otherwise a whole year of planting would have been
lost. IDA and CCCE would finance such eligible expenditures retroactively
to the extent that payments are made before signing.
Project and Program Completion
5.08      If for any reason Government's plans to expand the estate to
15,000 ha did not materialize, the rubber planted under the project would
constitute an economic unit, although its completion, i.e. bringing all
5,800 ha into full production, would require a total of seven years and
some US$11 million (net of taxes and contingencies) in addition to the
cost of the five-year project. The Government would assume responsibil-
ity for providing, or causing to be provided, these funds since IDA can
give no commitment at this stage; an assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations. At a later stage, however, the Bank Group and CCCE would
consider financing either the remaining development of the 5,800 ha, or
further expansion, on the basis of the preparation work financed during
the first phase.



- 19 -
C. Procurement
5.09      Procurement would be through international competitive bidding (ICB)
under IDA guidelines except for items mentioned below and individual contracts
not exceeding US$60,000 which would be let locally under competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally that would be agreed with IDA. Goods manufac-
tured in Cameroon or in countries which are party to Central African States
Customs Union (UDEAC) would be granted a preference of up to 15%, subject to
standard provisions, and prequalified Cameroonian contractors a preference
of 7-1/2%. Procurement for clearing land by contractor hand labor, if
arranged (see para 4.12), would be under these procedures. If not, most land
clearing, road building and other construction would be done on force account
(US$4 million). Assuming that land clearance is mechanized, goods and serv-
ices subject to ICB -- largely machinery, vehicles and equipment and fertil-
izers -- are estimated to cost US$5 million.  This comparatively small amount
reflects the large component of project costs that comprises labor and man-
agement. A minimum amount of land-clearing equipment, costing US$0.38 mil-
lion, has already been ordered under ICB, with IDA and CCCE approval, because
delivery is expected to take 12 months and otherwise the project might have
been delayed. Arrangements for the provision of management services by
SAFACAM would be acceptable to IDA. An assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions that the above procurement arrangements would be followed.
D. Disbursement
5.10      Disbursements by IDA and CCCE would be in the proportions 58:17.
Disbursements would be on a standard documented basis, including where
appropriate periodic work certificates, the full documentation for which
would be retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by
the Association during the course of supervision.
5.11      Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover 58% of
total expenditures of the following items, excluding corporate fees which would
be fully paid by Government:
(a)  civil works and plantations         -          US$4,800,000
(b)  equipment and materials             -          US$2,200,000
(c)  administration                       -         US$2,500,000
(d)  food crop development               -          US$300,000
(e)  technical assistance                -          US$580,000
(f)  project related studies              -         US$120,000
(g)  master plan                          -         US$700,000



- 20 -
US$4.8 million, representing contingencies, would be unallocated. Any unused
balance would be used to fînance similar activities which have been reviewed
in the appraisal of this project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      Project yield estimates are based on results obtained over many
years from plantîngs of the clones that would be used on the estate. A
yield and production schedule is at Annex 2. At peak yields during the
1990's, the estate's yearly output is estimated at about 34,000 tons of
rubber, double Cameroon's 1974 output, but a negligible percentage of world
production which is now 3.5 million tons (Annex 7).
6.02      Yields are estimated to increase gradually frorn 150 kg/ha in the
first year of tapping ( PY 8 ) to 2,300 kg/ha after 10 years; to remain at
the latter level for a further eight years; and thereafter to decline to
2,000 kg/ha by the end of the tapping period ( PY 36 ).
B. Marketing and Prices
6.03      It is assumed that project production would be exported as block
rubber. Block rubber has the advantage that its technical qualities can be
specified accurately; because of this it is in demand by manufacturers. Other
tvpes of rubber could also be produced but a decision on this would be taken
at a later stage in project development when market demand for special types
of rubber could be evaluated better. A final decision would not be needed
until 1981 when construction of the estate's processing plant would have to
beg in.
6.04      Marketing arrangemlents would be made by SAFACAM, if so requested
by HEVECAM. Specifie arrangements would not need to be made before the
contract comes up for renewal, and proposals would be submitted to IDA
for approval before adoption; an assurance to this effect was obtained
during negotiations.
6.05      The market for natural rubber is discussed in Annex 7.  Over the
past 25 years, world consumption of natural and synthetic rubber has expanded
at 6.2% per year, and natural rubber alone at 2.5%. The price of rubber has
fluctuated sharply in recent years, in response to economic conditions and
the effect of the oil crisis on synthetic rubber:  from 16.5t/lb (USe per
pound) in 1972, the price of natural rubber rose to about 444/lb in July
1973, and then feli back to 30j!lb in December 1974. No drastic changes
are expected in the short term. Long term prospects are favorable for



- 21 -
natural rubber, and the expected worldwide expansion of rubber production,
including that of the project, could be accommodated. Taking account of
the possibility of lower chemical prices in the 1980's, a long run equilib-
rium price of natural rubber is forecast at around 35/lb (in 1974 dollars);
at this price it would be competitive with forecast prices for synthetic
rubber.
C. Financial Results
6.06      Statements of income and sources and applications of funds for
HEVECAM are at Annex 6.  Net annual income, after debt service and income
tax, would become positive by Year 11, and would increase to a peak of
about CFAF 1.3 billion by Year 20.  Assuming that HEVECAM would first
build-up a working capital balance of about CFAF 0.6 billion, cash
revenues could then contribute to investment costs over the last five
years of the 15,000 ha estate program (Annex 6). Assuming CFAF 8.9
billion to be required to complete the program, the overall financial
rate of return to Government would be 14%. (It will be noted that this
is the same as the economic rate of return -- para 7.02 -- because no
shadow prices have been used and taxes that are a cost to HEVECAM are
revenue to its sole owner, Government.)
6.07      The Government cash flow (Annex 6), taking into consideration tax
revenue from project operations, shows an annual net surplus by Year 13.
Assuming that Government would bear the net investment cost for completing
the full 16-year program, a cumulative surplus would start in Year 19.
These figures are conservative because they ignore revenues from indirect
taxes, as these revenues are difficult to estimate.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The program would contribute to the realization of important
Government socio-economic development objectives. First, at peak produc-
tion, the completed 5,800 ha estate would produce 13,000 t of rubber (77%
of Cameroon's present output), a level that could be sustained for more
than 20 years without major replacements. Net foreign exchange earnings
of US$7 million would be generated each year, decreasing Cameroon's still
heavy reliance on two major export crops -- cocoa and coffee, whose export
prospects are limited. Second, the project, being labor intensive, would
provide secure employment to 3,000 employees and their families -- 10 -
12,000 people in total -- most of them from the north, and considerable
improvement in their standards of living. Satellite foodcrop production,
trade and transport activities would also develop. Third, it would help
spread the benefits of development more evenly among regions by opening
up an area with good potential for successful establishment of other



- 22 -
estate and smallholder plantations which would ultimately form a whole new
agroindustrial complex in the hinterland of the port of Kribi.
7.02      The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at 14%.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that a cost increase of 10% would reduce the
rate to 12.5%; a 25% increase would reduce it to about 11%. A combined 10%
increase in costs and 10% decrease in benefits would decrease the return to
11%. A combination of 20% cost increase and 20% benefit decrease would
reduce the rate to nearly 8%. The rate of return is expected to be satis-
factory.
7.03      The above calculations of the economic rate of return are
based on the assumption that: either (a) the proposed project is planned and
executed as the first phase of a 15,000 ha estate, in accordance with Gov-
ernment's present intentions; or (b) that the estate is not enlarged beyond
the 5,800 ha covered by the proposed project and that the decision to do this
will be taken early enough, say in the first or second year, to enable the
phasing of development to be planned and executed in the most economic way.
In both cases the rate of return is the same to the nearest percentage point,
since there are only minor economies of scale in the development of such
large areas. The detailed tables in the annexes have been prepared on the
assumption that the full 15,000 ha would be developed.
7.04      It is possible that changes in market prospects may lead to a
decision to restrict the size of the estate to 5,800 ha only in the 4th
or 5th year of the project. In this case, the rate of return would fall
to about 11%, because the timing of investments would have been appropri-
ate to the larger estate and heavier in the early years. Separate rate
of return and cash flov calculations have been prepared on this assumption
(Annexes 6 and 8).
7.05      The progress of the project, and of the preparation work for a
possible second phase, would be reviewed annually with Government and CCCE,
in order that a decision on the final size of the estate can be arrived at
as early as possible. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
7.06      The project would entail the risk that, as a pioneering venture in
an unexploited region, there can be no certainty that a satisfactory labor
force would be created. It is highly probable that labor from overpopulated
areas would be attracted by the regular wages offered by the estate. The
danger is that, if proper measures are not taken to make their lives satis-
factory, they would return to their home villages. The project provides for
the housing, health and education facilities that would be the best safeguard
against such risk.



- 23 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances or agree-
ments were obtained:
(a) concerning the general scope of and arrangements for a
master plan of the Kribi region, with firm recommendations
on transport requirements to be ready by 1978 (para 3.08);
(b) all facilities and title to or rights in respect of land
required for the carrying out and operating the project
would be provided promptly, and free of restrictions,
encumbrances or liabilities on the use thereof (para 4.01);
(c) to take all measures necessary to improve roads and bridges
tb assure year-round through traffic between Kribi and
Douala, via Edea, by December 31, 1976; and heavy trucks
would be given permission to use the present bridge over
the Sanaga River (para 4.04);
(d) the Government Commissioner's right of delay would be restricted
to cases that might increase the Government's obligations under
the Credit Agreement (para 4.24);
(e) appointments to the positions of Director General and Managers
of the Technical, Administrative, and Industrial Departments
would be subject to IDA's approval (para 4.25);
(f) the contract for SAFACAM services and any proposed modifications
would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.28);
(g) the Ministry of Education would provide and pay teachers for
the project schools according to a schedule agreed with IDA
(para 4.31);
(h)  the training program would be submitted to IDA for review from
time to time (para 4.32);
(i)  that Government would exempt HEVECAM from import duties
on project development items (para 5.02);
(j) IIEVECAM's cash and bank balances, including undrawn overdraft
facilities guaranteed by Government, would at all times be
sufficient to cover the forthcoming four months' expenditures
and in any event not less than CFAF 300 million (para 5.05);



- 24 -
(k) Government would assure the provision of finance for the
maintenance and productive exploitation of trees planted
under the project and appropriate processing facilities
(para 5.08);
(1) proposals to establish marketing arrangements would be
submitted to IDA for approval (para 6.04);
(m) the progress of the project would be reviewed annually with
IDA and CCCE (para 7.05).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  the management contract between HEVECAM and SAFACAM had been
signed (para 4.28);
(b) a first equity contribution of CFAF 300 million had been paid
by Government, and a schedule for the payment of the remainder
of Government's contribution had been agreed to by Government
and IDA (para 5.05);
(c) a CCCE loan to Government, satisfactory to IDA, had been
concluded (para 5.05); and
(d) a Project Financing Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, had been
entered into by Government and HEVECAM (para 5.06).
8.03      With the foregoing assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$16 million.



ANNEX I
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Draft Scope of Work for a Master
Development Plan for Southwest Region
Background
1.         The southwest region extends about 100 km along the southern coast,
beginning some 30 km north of Kribi, to the border with continental Equato-
rial Guinea, and inland about 45 km (see Map 1). The total area of this
region is around 500,000 ha. The climate and soils are generally suitable
for a range of tree crops including rubber, oil palm, and coconut. The land
is flat or gently undulating. The region is almost completely unpopulated,
due to the density of the forest and historical factors such as tribal con-
flicts which, however, are no longer a barrier to development.
2.         Interest in development of the region has been kindled by its
choice for location of a large Government-owned rubber estate, preparation
of which envisages 15,000 ha. The first 5,800 ha of this program would be
financed as a separate five-year project, which would also finance the prep-
aration of the master plan outlined herein. During the feasibility study
and appraisal of the rubber estate, it became apparent that comprehensive
planning for the future development of the region should begin as soon as
possible.
3.         To begin with, the Government's 15,000 ha rubber estate program,
being labor intensive, would provide secure employment to 7,000 employees
and their families -- 25-30,000 people in total -- most of them from the
poorest regions of Cameroon, and considerable improvement in their stand-
ards of living. Satellite foodcrop production, trade and transport activ-
ities would also develop. It would open up an area with good potential
for successful establishment of other estate and smallholder plantations
which would ultimately form a whole new agroindustrial complex in the hinter-
land of the port of Kribi. As a conservative estimate, at least 30% of the
total area -- say 150,000 ha -- should be suitable for tree crops. Develop-
ment of the area should begin with estates, as the laborers needed, together
with their families, would form the core of a permanent population for this
empty but fertile area. A series of second generation projects would encour-
age outgrowers, once the base for their successful establishment had been
laid. This phasing of development is justified because (a) nuclear estates
are necessary in any case, (b) they support development of infrastructure
and the acquisition of agronomic know-how, and (c) outgrower development
can be accomplished at a much lower cost if postponed until nuclear estates



ANNEX I
Page 2
are well established. From now to the turn of the century, it is possible
to envisage successive "rollover" projects developing some 100,000 ha or
more. At completion of such a program, the region would support some
300,000 or more people and there would have to be substantial development
of food, meat and fishery production. The transport requirements for im-
ports and exports would be very large.
Mode of Development
4.         The main estate crops are now oil palm and rubber.  The existing
estates are concentrated in the western and coastal lowlands in two state-
owned plantations: CAMDEV -- 30,000 ha; SOCAPALM -- 7,000 ha planted and a
further 7,500 ha to be completed by late 1977; and two private plantations.
CAMDEV and SOCAPALM have carried out extensive oil palm plantings in recent
years under projects partly financed by the Bank Group; development of out-
grower oil palm around existing estates is also an objective of the Bank
Group projects. The creation of HEVECAM, to own and operate the Government's
proposed 15,000 ha estate, adds a third state-owned plantation company.
Estate crops are being developed mainly by these state-owned companies,
because the small private estate sector, which is foreign-owned, is reluc-
tant to increase substantially its own investment; and there is not much
likelihood that a nationally owned private estate sector will come into
existence in the foreseeable future. Further, the existing state-owned
companies are successful ventures with efficient managements. For these
reasons, it would be realistic to plan for further development to be
carried out by state-owned companies, bringing each to the size of a
large, modern estate company. They could share technical and commercial
services.
Master Plan
5.         To take advantage of and preserve the opportunity offered by the
Kribi area, a master plan for development of the area should be prepared as
soon as possible. This plan would be based on a land-use survey and in
addition should:
(a) take account of the need to achieve a balanced development
of industrial estates and outgrowers;
(b) consider the creation of a specialized organization for
land clearance, which would be required on a large scale; and
(c) encompass a study of the long-term infrastructure and trans-
portation needs of the development program.
Land Use Survey
6.         The land-use survey would be based on the assumption that oil palm
and coconut as well as rubber would be considered for development. Re-
cognized sampling and analytical procedures would be followed, specifically



ANNEX I
Page 3
including topographic, pedologic and climatic studies. Preparation of soîl
and water surveys should be preceded by consideration of the quality and
extent of the detail already in existence. Then the best location for the
various types of tree-crop estates could be specified and areas reserved for
food crop farming. Once the pattern of land use is known, more detailed
planning would be possible as to where population centers should be located,
etc. The basic surveys and mapping would likely take some time, and these
should get underway as soon as possible.
Study of Infrastructure Needs
7.         The long-term infrastructure needs of the southwest region would
be determined by the size and phasing of the development program. Forecast
plans to provide essential utilities would be the responsibility of the
appropriate ministries. Since the region has neither the housing nor
social infrastructure to accommodate a large population, the development
program would also have to provide for schools and hospitals as well as
adequate housing. The transport part of the infrastructure study would
have to consider, in particular, the roles to be played by Douala, the
country's main port, and Kribi harbor. The relative advantages of shipping
through Kribi or Douala appear to be finely balanced. Kribi is at a river
mouth, and requires lighterage to service ocean-going ships anchored off-
shore. Douala has direct loading at the quays, but is some 200 km from
Kribi and the cost of road transport would be considerable. Kribi is quite
congested at present, but expansion is underway. Expansion of general cargo
operations could probably be accommodated with the present lighterage oper-
ation up to a level about three times current volumes, i.e., an additional
40,000 tons of agricultural exports could probably be handled when the
present work is completed in a year or two. Beyond this capacity level,
ut appears likely that either comparatively costly investment at Kribi,
or development of an alternative site, would be required. The least-cost
evacuation method for rubber and other agricultural commodities thus depends
upon the period under consideration, the additional landward costs of evacu-
ation through Douala, and the inconvenience costs of the less frequent serv-
ice which can be expected at Kribi. In the longer term, development of the
agricultural sector in the Kribi region at a significant rate -- in excess
of that being experienced in the already settled areas of the Douala-Yaounde
corridor and West Cameroon -- seems likely to produce a demand for new port
facilities in the Kribi area. The transport survey would have to consider
the alternatives and be ready with firm recommendations by the end of 1978,
before further plantings under the Government's rubber estate program are
finalized.
Review of Perennial Crop Development Potential
8.         It would be essential to support the master plan with a survey of
the tree crop industries under consideration for development.  Such a survey,
including historical development in Cameroon, structure of the industry,
market prospects, etc. has already been carried out for rubber, in connection
with Niete estate. A review of the oil palm industry should consider, in



ANNEX I
Page 4
particular, the probability that palm oil and kernels produced in the south-
west would be high cost and perhaps not competitive on world markets; thus
the absorptive capacity of the domestic market would be of crucial importance.
The role of a coconut industry should be similarly reviewed.
$pecialized Organization for Land Clearance
9.         The long-term development program for perennial crops would be
conceived in terms of a continuous land clearance operation involving various
types of plantations. In a desk study, a 15-project series of estate-out-
grower complexes was phased into annual clearing programs averaging about
5,000 ha per year over 20 years.  In terms of timing, as an illustrative
example, it might be possible to prepare and commence an oil palm program
in the southwest region in 1979, after the Niete Rubber Estate has passed
out of its initial start-up period. The most efficient way to handle a long-
term "rollover" land clearance program would be to have a specialized organi-
zation. The methods to be used cannot be prejudged, as the question of
jnanual versus mechanized clearance has not yet been answered.  The form of
organization, and the best planning approach, would be some form of con-
sortium, or interim committee, of the three companies to be involved in
the southwest development.
Ancillary Studies
10.        Preparation of the Government's 15,000 ha rubber program proved
the desirability of taking a long-term viewpoint toward the related problems
of labor supply for the estates and food supply for the estate famdlies.
The master plan would essentially be a continuation and expansion of the
demographic and food supply planning begun in connection with Niete estate.
Welfare of Pygmies
il.        There are an estimated 3,000 forest-dwelling pygnies in Ocean
Department whose way of life might be impinged upon by a large-scale develop-
ment program.  The welfare of the pygmies would be considered in the prep-
aration of the master plan.
Coordination with Niete Rubber Estate Project
12.        The master plan would initially concentrate on the general com-
position and phasing of a long-term program for perennial crop development.
The next step would be a review of the draft plan, followed by a final
revision. At this point, it would be appropriate to draw-up specific
terms of reference for preparation of investment proposals.  The crucial
decision would be to establish priorities in terms of what estate project
should be the next to be "rolled" into the action program.



ANNEX I
Page  5
Ministries Involved
13.        Cameroon has a substantial capability for development planning.
Thus, the master plan could be prepared by the established Government plan-
ning agencies, with the assistance of consultants. Various ministries
would be involved, and it would be desirable for the Ministry of Planning
to be assigned a coordinative role. In particular, but not exclusively,
the following ministries would be involved:
-    Planning and Territorial Development
-    Agriculture
-    Equipment (Housing and Lands)
-    Mines and Power
-    Transport
-    Territorial Administration
-    Employment and Social Insurance
-    Commissariat General on Tourism (under Ministry of Industry)
-    Post and Telecommunications
-    Public Health and Social Welfare
-    National Education
-    Industrial and Commercial Development
14.        In addition, it would be necessary for the three publicly-owned
estate companies, CAMDEV, SOCAPALM and HEVECAM, to be involved in the
planning effort from the beginning.
Timetable
15.        The plan and investment proposals would be prepared according to
the following sequence and tentative timetable:
(i) Draft land-use plan completed
(ii) Draft Transport plan completed
(iii) Review of draft plan completed



ANNEX I
Page 6
(iv) Final plan and terms of reference for preparation of
investtment proposals completed
(v)  Investment proposals coinpleted



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
The Project Area and Features of Niete Estate
Climatic Conditions
1.         The chosen site for this rubber estate, the Lobe River Basin,
lies geographically about 3° latitude North and 10° longitude East. The
soil is good, typical ferrallitic, derived from metamorphic rocks, and
comprising at various levels and in variable quantities iron oxide con-
cretions. The hydrographic network is not very dense.
2.         The site is gently undulated, at altitudes of generally between
10 and 30 meters, with the exception of a few rocky hills which are ex-
cluded from the planting areas. The dominant vegetation is dense, moist
forest. The climate is typically equatorial, and characteristically hot
and humid. There are four seasons, with two relatively dry and two wet
seasons annually. The dry periods have less than 100 am of rainfall
monthly, but are not drastic since each dry season lasts only for one to
two months maximum.
3.         The extreme West and East areas are on the isohyets 2,700 and
2,000 mm, respectively.  Average rainfall, computed from ORSTOM publications,
follows this pattern (months and mm/month):
Total
J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    O    N    D    Annual
50   100  200  200  300  200  100  100  400  450  200  50    2,350
4.         This equatorial climate is marked by a symmetry of the annual
rainfall pattern:
December to February: first dry season
March to June: first rainy season
July to August: second relatively dry season
September to November: second and most important rainy season.
5.         Average temperature of the area oscillates year-round between 25°C
and 26°C, with a steady average minimum of 220 and average maximum between
270C and 31°C. This is an extremely regular temperature pattern.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        The climate differs from the climate prevailing in other areas
of the Cameroon where rubber and oil palm estates are planted. The other
areas are governed by a transitional regime between equatorial and tropical
climate, with only one dry and one wet season annually. The Kribi area
climate, with its two wet seasons, offers a much greater flexibility for the
organization of planting times and is rather similar to the Malaysian climate
where rubber and palm growth has been so successful. However, the Malaysian
and Indonesian (Sumatra) areas enjoy a relatively higher number of sunshine
hours annually than does the West African coast, where overcast skies generally
prevail even during relatively dry seasons.
Population and Labor Force
7.        The total recorded population of the Akom II district, in which
Niete Estate is to be devloped, is only 8,940 persons. The population
density is 3.5 persons/km . This very thin population is distributed ex-
clusively along the existing roads, mainly the Kribi-Ebolowa route. The
interior of the district is practically uninhabited. Some 3,000 pygmies
are estimated to live in the whole of Ocean Department, and some of these
no doubt would inhabit or make use of land of Akom II district.
8.        Except for some small-scale logging by private companies, economic
activity in the area is meagre. Some gravel deposits in the interior are
being exploited, and there is artisanal fishing along the coast. The town
of Kribi itself, on the coast, has a tourist industry. Fishing would have
to be promoted by the Estate management to supply the estate population
with fresh fish at low cost.  This could be approached along the lines of
an extension and marketing service.
9.        The existing population belong to various ethnic groups from
other parts of the country. The small numbers of crop farmers in the
district, and in surrounding areas of the department, are not likely to
provide enough labor for the estate needs. Many would probably choose not
to become wage laborers, especially since the existing crop farmers would
benefit quickly and substantially through the expansion of food cropping
for sale to the estate.
10.       It will thus be necessary to recruit the bulk of the estate labor
force in overpopulated parts of the Cameroon, essentially the northern area
and the higher areas in the west. Other existing estates in Cameroon have
been developed with such imported labor, and their experience shows that
problems of adaptation can be readily handled provided that necessary
efforts are made for a pleasant and warm reception. At nearby Dizangue
Estate, a 6,000 ha rubber estate belonging to SAFACAM (see Annex 3) where
conditions of life and work are similar to those anticipated for the Niete
Estate, no recruiting efforts have been necessary for many years; an
adequate choice of recruits is provided by people who come to the estate
seeking employment.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.        Recruiting for Niete Estate would require initial investments
to establish channels of labor supply, but these costs would soon begin to
diminish as satisfied workers begin to write relatives in their home
villages. It is envisaged that regular flows would soon begin to be
established. Some people from nearby areas would likely become periodic
workers, and thus would form a valuable reserve labor pool.  With time,
the core of a permanent workforce would be formed by satisfied laborers,
especially those established permanently with their families and coming
from the farther North. It can be expected that, after a number of years,
some salaried employees would wish to establish themselves as farmers, taking
advantage of the land availability in the neighborhood; this would be to
the overall advantage of the region, and should not be discouraged. The
pattern of recruitment and settlement described above is now a classic long-
term phenomenon which has been observed following the creation of estates in
empty regions. The result is a highly satisfactory form of balanced regional
development.
12.        The labor force is likely to come mainly from two regions.  The
North, with its large population and scarcity of resources, is a proved
source of satisfactory recruits for estate labor forces. Ethnic groups of
proved adaptability are the Toupouri, the Moudang, the Massar, the Guidar
and the Kissagas. Enterprises such as SEMRY (rice production), SOSUCAM
(sugar production), SOCAPALM (oil palm estates) are very satisfied with
their workers from these ethnic groups.  The second source of labor supply
would be the West and Northwest, including the areas of Bafoussam, Foumbam
and the English-speaking region of Bamenda up to Wum. This latter region
has supplied the labor population for development and operation of some
30,000 ha of rubber and oil palm owned by the Camneroon Development Corpora-
tion. The recruitment of labor amongst the most important and active ethnic
group, the Bamileke, is not likely to be substantial and/or permanent.  How-
ever, since Bamileke are prone to establish themselves on their own, and are
good traders, a sizeable group would likely settle around the estate to grow
and sell foodstuffs.
13.        Recruitment would be based on the following basic principles:
- Recruitment should be done only in rural zones. It is
known that laborers who have tasted urban life have
difficulty in readapting to country work and life.
- Preferably, recruitment campaigns should be made durîng
the first quarter of the calendar year, when agricultural
work is at a low ebb.
- Recruitment in a given area would be made after authorization
of the Ministry of Labor and in cooperation with the Labor
Inspector.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
- Agreement of all local authorities should be obtained
(Sous Prefet, village chiefs, municipal counsellor and,
eventually, religious authorities).
- An information campaign should be undertaken in each
village where recruitment takes place, to explain planta-
tion work and the type of existence to be expected on the
estate. The information given must be accurate and
realistic to avoid later difficulties due to misunder-
standings as to what to expect.
- When arriving on the estate, the laborer should find his
lodging prepared, with a bed in place, and be given a
small cash advance against his first pay.
- Several laborers from the same village should be recruited
together and put together in the same village to avoid feel-
ings of isolation.
- A first contract would be signed on arrival, normally for
two years. Fare for the return trip would be provided by
the estate; for married laborers, the cost of travel would
include the immediate family (wife and children).  Further
contracts would be of indeterminate length, with travel
at the laborer's expense.
- The recruitment effort should be carefully organized from
the beginning, as satisfied laborers would be expected to
become effective recruiting agents through writing and
word-of-mouth contacts with their home villages.
14.        Medical Care.  The provision of medical care, especially for
emergencies, is a valuable morale builder for an estate labor force.
Dispensary services should be offered 24 hours a day, with a doctor on
call.
15.        Food Crop Growing by Estate Workers.  On Niete Estate, as on
industrial estates in general, the possibilities for growing subsistence
crops are constrained. Firstly, villages are located in the middle of
production blocks serviced by the village labor force, and thus the
available land for farming is often rather distant from the village.
Secondly, such cropping is usually done by women in West Africa. On
estates, married women often prefer to work on the estate, and thus bring
in a second salary. Also, a proportion of female estate workers are single.
At the SAFACAM Dizangue rubber estate, women represent 18% of the labor
force. However, Dizangue has been an established estate for a long time.
In the early years of development at Niete, a very small proportion of
workers are likely to be women. Thus there is not likely to be much sub-
sistence foodstuff cropping.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.        Housing.  As noted above, laborers expect to find on arrival a
prepared lodging with minimum facilities such as a source of water, toilet,
kitchen, etc. But experience indicates that estate workers are not
interested in the luxury of construction material. Sensitive matters in-
clude an adequate size of the lodging quarters and the existence of markets,
shops, school and other social facilities and activities such as cinema,
football teams, etc. The project would provide adequate facilities to meet
the expected demand in these regards.
Food Crop Development
17.        On the whole, food production in Cameroon is more-or-less balanced.
But the Kribi area (Ocean Department is far from the main food production
areas). Further, a curtain of towns (Yaounde, Eseka, Edea, Douala) lies be-
tween Kribi and the agricultural zones to the North. When the Niete Estate
labor force grows to 7,500 -- corresponding to some 25,000-30,000 people --
it would be difficult and costly to bring in the majority of supplies from
distant points.
18.        Over the next seven years, the implementation of the project is
likely to increase the demand of the Kribi area for foodstuff by 20%.
Under the present structure of farming, the expected increase in food pro-
duction is practically nil (0.2%).
19.        The food crop output of the existing smallholders in the area could
be improved by a better collecting system, an improved feeder-road network,
and minimum extension services. But smallholder output will remain small,
and probably will not cover more than 25% of the necessary tonnage of food
for the rubber estate. Most of it would come from the Lolodorf area, about
100 km from the estate.
20.        There is scope for allocating some land within the estate for sub-
sistence food production but on a rather limited scale. Further, there are
constraints that would hold down production as discussed in para 15.
21.        It will be decided within five years, when the estate population
will have grown to a substantial size, whether to create within the concession
grounds, in the neighborhood of the estate, a food production unit that would
supply the village markets with basic staple foods, in sufficient quantity,
to complement the local available output plus the laborers' own production.
The estate management would have a double target: In addition to satis-
fying basic food needs, food production would aim at avoiding large im-
balances between supply and demand that would result in excessive price
increases and possibly a classic wage-increase/cost-of-living spiral.
22.        A study of food production has already been carried out under the
responsibility of SEDA (Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique),
with finance of CFAF 4 million provided by FAC. A small second phase of this
study is incorporated in the proposed project.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Planting Material and Expected Yields
23.       It has been decided to plant four clones, chosen from proven
varieties with large plantations in existence and 20-30 years or more of
accumulated experience in a number of countries (mostly Asian, of necessity).
24.       PR 107 is considered the probable best choice, and assigned an
estimated 45% of the estate plantings, because of its affinity for the
predominantly acid soils in the project area (pH 4.5). The GT 1 clone,
assigned 30%, is the most universally grown variety and is favorably in-
clined to soils of medium acidity (pH 5-5.5). The PB 86, assigned 15%,
would essentially displace the PB 107 clone on soils of only slight acidity
(pH 5.5-6). The PB 5/51 is considered a very promising variety for the
project area, but its performance is not as well documented as the other
three varieties chosen, and it is assigned only 10% of the plantation area.
The clone RRIM 600 would have been included in the selected list but for its
tendency to break under high winds, as proved on other plantations in Cameroon.
25.       The best available evidence on yields for the clones chosen comes
from data on industrial plantations in Cambodia, where record yields were
obtained. For PR 107, medium yield over 23 years was 2,320 kg/ha, with
maximum yields of 2,700-3,000 kg/ha from the 15th to 22nd year. The GTI and
PB 86 have produced equally well on industrial scale plantations. It seems
reasonable to assume, since the project plantings would have a relatively
high density and selectivity of planted seedlings should insure vigorous trees,
the average yields obtained under project plantings would be within 85% of
the average obtained in Cambodia, and at least 70% of the maximum. Therefore,
over a 28 year life, assumed project yields are 2,030 kg/ha on average and
2,300 kg/ha during the years of maximum productivity.
26.       Some experimental plantings of rubber trees have been made in this
area on a very small scale in the past. Several such plantings survive, for
instance along the Lobe river and the Kribi-Ebolowa road, and have been in-
spected by rubber experts. Some of these plantings date as far back as 1915,
and have survived in the forest as "wild" trees. They offer valuable
evidence as to what growth for rubber can be expected. First of all, the
dimensions of these trees are enormous, indicating that rubber is able to
grow quite easily in the area. The trees are free of some general disease
agents, such as Armillaria millea, Ganoderma, Fomes noxius and Phythphtora
palmivora, which were detected on some cocoa trees in the area; their exis-
tence is considered normal for such a tropical forest. The rubber-tree root
systems show normal growth, with no root diseases such as Fomes lignosus or
Armillaria. The foliage is also quite healthy. This is a remarkable perfor-
mance considering that these trees were abandoned, survived under conditions
of competitive forest regrowth, and never enjoyed any maintenance whatsoever.
This evidence adds a considerable confidence factor to the generally favor-
able data on ecoclimatic conditions in the project region.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
27.       It is considered highly desirable to establish estate arboreta to
test other clones on small plots of 5-10 ha each.  The initial list of
candidates includes the following varieties:
PB 217                         AV 2037
PB 235
PB 252                          IR 22
PR 228                         RRIM 701
PR 251                         RRIM 703
PR 255                         RRIM 600  A small plot would be
PR 261                         planted to test the reaction of
this clone to local wind conditions.
IIC 28 This clone has proven
itself particularly vigorous
and productive on the SAFACAh
estate at Dizangue.
28.       Up to 1% of the total planted area would be allocated to arboreta
in various locations of the concession area for clone trials and field
experiments. Agronomic research would be undertaken if and as required.



CA4 MER 0ON
N=Tr RUBBER ESTATF; PROJECT
Soll Analysis of the Northern Part
of the Concession Arpa
A. Characteristics
Soil Classification                             ---ext-re            P pH    To+al
-   CLay   % Silt   % Sand    H20    XMT   N 600   OM°/0o0-  C,/;N
Cioocl Soil                     21.-      11.1      65.6       5.05   4.32   0.39        13.3      12.9
Laterite beoki l,o crn          19.6      10.0     69.1        5.38   4.68   0.-33       18.7      13.8
!at,erite  10 - 40 cst           22.9     11.8      64.4       5.00   4.36   0.?7        19.4      12.8
'focky/'La.e.i-te Surface        25.l     11.6      60 .7      4.78  l4.l4   0.90        18.5      11.1
G ley                            30.i    1(.8       50.o       5.02   hi.3M   1.14       22.6      12.1
B. Cations and Cation Exchanee
Joî1 C1ausificiol    4         :-----Erchargeable Cations-. -----       T-         V/
Ca       Mé        K          Total
(0.oo1 3oil                     0.66      0.28      0.21       1.15        5.58       20.6
TLate:-jtp belotrr 40 cm        .1.23     0. 38     0.23       1.89        6.58       28.7
Lateri.te 10 - I0, Ce.,         0.72      0.28      0.22       1.21        551        22.0                           N)
,Ro&v/aterit,e Surface          0.i       0.2'3     0.13       0.91        5.o        16.9
Gley                             0.b.9    0.26      0.21       0.96        7.3(       13.2                        H
1/ OrgainT  matter.
2/ E:xchangfe apacity,
3/ Percent saturation.



CAWROON
NIUTE RI3BBER ESTATE PROJECT
Stl Analysis of the Northern Part
of the Concession Area
C. Classifi ation of Soils on 58,000 `IRentice
A.                   B                    C                        D             E                 F
Slopes above 15%      Saopes below 15%        Lateritic gravels  Laterte    Deep soil with
Gley          with rocks, crust      with rocks, crust       between 10 and      below       no laterite
or lateritic surface  or lateritic surface  h4  cm                4o0 cm
1o, 170 m         8,530 Pl               8,ooo m.               8,o60 m          8,000 mn      1h,900 m
18.1%            1h4.%                  13.8%                  13.9%            13.8%         25.7%
Samne .Analysis, Eliminating 4,650 m of Columnn B
10,h70 m          3,380 mn               8,o000 m               8     m,60 n     8,o000 n      14,900 m
19.6%             7.3%                   15.0                  1i5.4             1 5.0%         27.9P
Classification                                                   Good -----                    ---58.1%
Very good.--1-%---    442_9%
Ex4lude-l  26.9%                    ? ___-
Source: Pedologic Survey by Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronorn.que
Depar-tment des Sciences du So' 
CQ



CANEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS
(8ect r.es)
PF  iect 1-cr                                          '            2           3          4          S             6            7           8         9         10           11           IZ           13           14           IS     16
Bud.od C-rdeS                                                                     5                           5                                    5
Nur-ery                                                      -         4.3        7.2          tl.5          11.5        11.5         11.5         11.5
Field Freprpe.tio                                          300       700      1,500        2 5`0         2,500        2,500        2,500       2,500
Field CIe.rteg                                             300       700      1,500        2.500         2,500        2,500        2.500       2,500
Seed e1.stitS                                                        300        400         1,OOO         1,700       1,700        1,700       1,700    1,700
Tr... Spntit'                                               -        300       5SO            800          800          800          800         800       -
La.d C1ocrteg for - Vilt.gee                                -          12.5      25            37.5          3.5         37 .5        37_5         12.5
- Oeodqeertor                             5        -          25           25 25                      -           25           -
-AirRffrd                                -         _           0-
- VtItage-Feod tCrop A.ree  (lotfeated)  -         12.1       25           37.5          37.5         37.5         37.5        12.5
Me,toane ne of Tree-, Ye.- 1 1,                             -          -        600           900         1,800       2,500        2.500       2.500    2,500    1,700
.2                              -         -                      600           900        1,800       2.500        2,500    2,500    2,SO0          1.700
3                              -          -          -            -            600          900       1,800        2,500    2.500    2500          2,500       1,700
à                               -         -          -            -             -           600          000       7.800    2,500    2,500          2,500       2,500        1,700
5  -      -             -             -           -           600          900    1,800    2,500          2,500      2,500        2,500      1,700
Fottcig tnto tappieg. Toor 6 A                                                                                                                    600      900    1t800          2,500      2,500        2,500      2.550 1.700
7                                                    -            -             -            -           -            -       600       900         1,800      2.50    2500       2,500 Z»            2,500    1,700
Road  PnteeoeCeP'Ye-r  1- 5                                 _          _        600         1,500         3,300       5,800        8.300       10,200   11,800   11,700          9,200      6,700        4.200      1,700            -
6-33                                         -                        -             -           -            -          600    1,500    3,300          5,800       8,300       10.800    13 300          15,000   15.000
T-ail Ki.       et ...    - 5 6                                        _        600         1,S00         3,300       5,800        8,300      10,200   11,800   11,700           9,200      6,700        4.200      t,700
6-31                               _         -          -             -            -            -            -          600    1,500    3.300          5,800       8.300       t0.800    13.300         I,w 15,0   S,OOO
Rood seeengtheetng, Year   6                                -          -         -             -             -            -           -           600      900    1.800          2,500      2,500        2,500      2,500          1,700
_   _     -_            -             -           -            -          600       900    18000         2,50        2 500        2.500      2 50O          1,700
Tre.  YOfteOo.-Va           6                               ------                                                                                600      900    1,60            ,0 00    2, 500            0      2,00           1700                     0 1
T                              - Y  7  _            _                                                                 -       600       900         1,800       2.500        2.500     2,500          2,500    1,700              x
8-18                               -         -          -             -            -            -            -           -         -       600         1,500       3.300        5,800     8.300          10,800   13.300          r,
19-33                              -          -          -            -             -            _           _            _         _        _             _           _            _          _             _
T.ppi.g, Ye-r               6                               _                    _                                        _                       6 600    900    1.800          2.500      2,500        2,500      2,500          1,700
7-                                        -          ---                                                 -            -       600       900         1,000       2.500        2.500     2,500          2.500    1.700
8-13                               -         -          -             -            -            -            -           -         -       600         1,500       3,300        5,800      8,300         10,800   12,700
1L..7                              -                                                                                                         -             -           -            -          -             -        600
18-23
24-27
1I  These yeare are fro-  date of pl-nting, ir   project yenrs Fis 2.
2/ On a-erag: 10 m of roade/ha plact.d
30 r of tr-ak/ha plarted



ANNEX 2
Tab le 3
CAHEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Production Schedule
(Tons)
Planting Schedule
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total
Project Year    2                3                 4               5               6               7                8               9
600 ha          900 ha          1,800 ha         2,500 ha        2,500 ha        2,500 ha         2,500 ha         1,700 ha          15,000 ha
8                9o                                                                                                                                    90
9               540              135                                                                                                                  675
10               720             810              270                                                                                                1,800
Il               900           1,080            1,620             375                                                                                3,975
12             1,020           1,350            2,160           2,250             375                                                                7,155
13             1,140           1,530            2,700           3,000            2,250             375                                              10,995
14             1,260           1,710            3,060           3,750            3,000           2,250              375                             15,405
15             1,320           1,890            3,420           4,250            3,750           3,000           2,250              255             20,135
16             1,380           1,980            3,600           4,750           4,250            3,750            3,000           1,530             24,420
17             1,380           2,070           3,960            5,250           4,750            4,250            3,750           2,040             27,450
18             1,380           2,070           4,140            5,500           5,250            4,750           4,250            2,550             29,890
19             1,380           2,070           4,140            5,750           5,500            5,250           4,750            2,890             31,730
20             1,380           2,070           4,140            5,750           5,750            5,500           5,250            3,230             33,070
21             1,380           2,070           4,140            5,750            5,750           5,750           5,500            3,570             33,910
22             1,320           2,070           4,140            5,750           5,750            5,750           5,750            3,740             34,270
23             1,320           1,980            4,140           5,750           5,750            5,750           5,750            3,910             34,350
24             1,320           1,980            3,960           5,750           5,750            5,750           5,750            3,910             34,170
25             1,320           1,980            3,960           5,500           5,750            5,750           5,750            3,910             33,920
26,            1,380           1,980            3,960           5,500           5,500            5,750           5,750            3,910             33,730
27             1,380           2,070            3,960           5,500           5,500            5,500           5,750            3,910             33,570
28             1,260           2,070           4,140            5,500           5,500            5,500           5,500            3,910             33,380
29             1,260           1,890           4,140            5,750           5,500            5,500           5,500            3,740             33,280
30             1,200           1,890            3,780           5,750           5,750            5,500           5,500            3,740             33,110
31             1,200           1,800            3,780           5,250            5,750           5,750           5,500            3,740             32,770
32             1,200           1,800            3,600           5,250           5,250            5,750           5,750            3,740             32,340
33             1,200           1,800            3,600           5,000            5,250           5,250           5,750            3,910             31,760
34             1,200           1,800            3,600           5,000            5,000           5,250            5,250           3,910             31,010
35             1,200           1,800            3,600           5,000            5,000           5,000            5,250           3,570             30,420
36                             1,800            3,600           5,000            5,000           5,000            5,000           3,570             28,970
37                                              3,600           5,000            5,000           5,000            5,000           3,400             27,000
38                                                              5,000            5,000           5,000            5,000           3,400             23,400
39                                                                               5,000           5,000            5,000           3,400             18,400
40                                                                                               5,000            5,000           3,400             13,400
41                                                                                                                5,000           3,400              8,400
42                                                                                                                                3,400              3,400
TOTAL      34,140          51,210          102,420         142,250         142,250          142,250          142,250          96,730            853,500



ANNEX 2
Table 4
CAMEROON
NIETE, RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Staffing Schedule
Designation                        Project Year   1          2        3         4         5         6        7         8         9        10        il        12
Project Director                        A          E         E         E        E         E         E         E        E         E         E         E         E
Adniinistrative Manager                 A          E         E         E         E        E         E         E         E        N         N         N         N
Accountant                               B          -        N         N         N        N         N         N         N        N         N         N         N
Buying Officer                           B                   -         N         N        N         N         N         N        N         N         N         N
Chief Personnel                         B          -                   iN       N         N         N         N        N         N         N         N         N
Technical Manager                        A          -        E         E         E        E         E         E         E         E        E         E         E
Agronomist                               B          -                                     E         E         E         E         N        N         N         N
Technologist                             B          -        -         -         -        -         -         -         E         E        E         E         N
Mechanical Engineer                      B          -        -         E         E        E         E         E         E         E        N         N         N
Surveyor                                 C         N         N         N         N        N         N         N         N         -         -        -         -
Sector Chief                             B         -        IE        2E        3E       4E        4E        4E        3E       2E        IL
Sector Chief                             B         -         -         -         -        -         -         -        1N        2N       3N        4N        4N
Assistants                               C        IN        2N        3N        4N       5N        6N        7N        9N       llN      13N       15N       16N
Industrial Department Manager           A          -         -         E        E         E         E         E         E        E         N         N         N
Garage Head Engineer                     B          -        -         -         -        E         E         E         E         E        E         E         E
Tractor Engineer                         B         E         E         E         E        E         E         E         E         E
Workshop's Head                          B          -        -         -         E        E         E         E         E         E         E         E        E
Building Engineer                        B          -        -         E         E        E         E         N         N         N        N         N         N
Factory Engineer                         B          -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        E         E
Factory Assistant                        C          -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -        N
Health Chief Officer                     A          -                  E         E        E         E         E         E         E         N        N         N
Deputy Doctor                            B          -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        N
Head Sickbay Attendant                   C          -        -         -         -        N         N         N         N         N         N        N         N
Expatriate Staff                                    3        5        10        12        15       15        14        14        il         6         6        5
National Staff                                      2        4         7         8        10       il        13        16        20        26        29       33
Category A -                                       3         3         5         5        5         5         5         5         5         5         5        5
Category B                                          1        3         8        10       13        13        13        14        14        13        14       15
Category C                                          2        3         4         5         7        8         9        il        12        14        16       18
TOTAL                                          5         9        17        20       25        26        27        30       31        32        35        38
1/ A.   Senior Professional Staff
B.   Junior Professional Staff
C.   Division Chiefs



ANNEX 2
Table 5
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
LABOR FORCE
Category        Function                       Project Year  1              2          3            4          5           6             7           8           9          10          il
Sundry Labor   Immature cultures                               86         329          585         1,045      1,388       1,688         1,843       2,002       1,439      1,101        756
Cultures in Bearing                            -                        -           -          -           -              -            22          58        125        228
Factories                                      -           -            -           -          -           -             -            -            10         26         56
Overheads for central services                14           22           33            39         45          46            48          52          53         57         60
Workshop                                       2            4            6             8          8           8             8           8           8          8          8
Hospital                                        1           3            4              5         6           6             8           8           9          9         10
Division villages                             10           17           21            25         29          31            35          38          40         42         44
Food Commissariat                              1            2            2             3          3           4             4           5           5          6          6
Total                                   114          377          651         1,119      1,479       1,785        1,946       2,133       1,622      1,374      1,168
Specialized    Budgrafters                                      -           62           80           162        228         228          228         228         160        -           -
Labor           Tappers                                         -           -            -           -          -           -             -            15         125        334         709
Factories                                      -           -            -           -          -           -              -          -              5         13         28
Workmen                                       10           22           37           150        157         158           158         159         159        159        159
Total                                    10           ô4          117           312        385         386          386         402         449         566        896
Headmen         Division villages                               6           23           36            65         86         101          109         119          96          85         98
Center village                                 2            2            4              6          7           7            7           8          10         12         16
Overseers       Division villages                               1            5            8            17         21          26           27          30           24         22         24
Center village                                 -           -              2             2          2           2            2           2           2          3           4
Sanitary        Division villages                               -            1            2             3          5           5             6           7           5          5          6
Service         Center village                                  2            4            6             6          8           9            10          il          10          9         il
Deputv          Division villages                               -             1            2             4          5           6            6           7           6          5           6
Assistants       Center village                                 3             3            4             6          6           6            7           7           7           7          7
Office           Division vil]lages                             4             7           il            16         20          24           27          31          33         36          39
Personiel        Center >.ia<                                  13            19           27            34         38          42           45          32          54         56          57
Chaturfeuit      Division villages                               1            1            2             3          5           6            7           9           9          10         14
Center village                                 9            17          30             36         44          45           46          50          47         48          51
Tractor drivers                                 -            5           10            15         15          15           16          16           4           3          4
Workshop Specialists and Drivers               13           26          45            160        170         175          172         183         173         173        173
TOTAL GENERAL                           178          491          957         1,810      2,296       2,638        2,819       3,059        2,551      2,354      2,574



ANNEX 2
Table 
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Exploitation Schedule
Operations            Projec.  `'ear 8      9     10      il        12       13        14        15        16        17        18       19         20        21        22        23       24
MAINTENANCE
Base
-  Young  trees            ha    600    1,500  3,300  5,800    8,300    10,800   13,300   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   14,400   13,500   11,700    9,200
-  old trpes                                                                                                                                                   600    1,500    3,300    5,800
TAPPING
ha    600       900  1,800  2,500    2,500        2,500    2,500    1,700
600    900  1,800    2,500        2,500    2,500    2,500    1,700
600  1,500    3,300       5,800    8,300   10,800   12,700   13,500   11,700    9,200    6,700    4,200    1,700
600    1,500    3,300    5,800    7,700    9,300   10,000    9,200    6,700
600    1,500    3,300    5,800    8,300
PROCESSING - DISPATCING
FOR EXPORT
-  Transport of  ÀirvesL    O      90       ;7,  1,800  3,975    7,155    10,995   15,405   20,135   24,420   27,450   29,890   31,730   33,070   33,910   34,270   34,350   34,170
-  Processing           "                                                   "    "         " 
-  Export                          .       "       "       "
-  Percontage of
overhead charged                 5        10     22      39      55       72         89      100       100       100       100      100        100       100       100       100       100



ANNEX 2
Table 7
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Tapping Specifications
Age of       Trees             Tapping             Intensity      Lower      Yield
Trees        Tapped            System                             Panel      kg/ha
Fer ha
6             300          S J/4  J/5               75           -150 cj
7             300           SJ/4  J/5               75              1        900
8             400           S J/4  J/5              75              1      1,200
9             450           S J/4  J/5              75              1      1,500
10             450           S J/4  J/5              75              1      1,700
il             440           S J/4  J/5              75              1      1,900
12             450           S J/4  J/5              75              1      2,100
13             430           S J/4  J/5              75              1      2,200
14             420           S J/4  J/5              75              1      2,300
15             410           S/2  j/4   /            75              1      2,300
+ 2 S t i. m
16             400                                   75              1      2,300
17             395                                   75              1     2,300
18             390                                   75              1     2,300
19             385           S J/3  J/4+2 stim      100              2     2,300
20             380                                  100              2      2,200
21             375                                  100              2      2,200
22             370                                  100              2      2,200
23             365                                  100              2      2,200
24             360                                  100              2      2,300
25             355           S/2  J/3  J/4          100              2      2,300
+ 2 stit.
26             350             "                    100              2      2,100
27             345                                  100              2      2,100
28             340                                  100              2      2,000
29             335           S-J/3-J/4+4 stim.    100                3     2,000
30             330             "                    100              3     2,000
31             325                                  100              3      2,000
32             320                                  100              3      2,000
33             315                                  100              3      2,000
1/  Partial year of tapping.
2/ Use of anticoaguLent, Ethrel.






ANNEX 2
Table 8
Page I
CAMIEROON
NIETE RIUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
QONSTRUCTION PRO
Prolect Year                                  I.        2         3        4         5          5         7         8          9        10        il         12        13         14        15         16        17         18
I. IODGINIG AND ACCOMMODATIONS
Bouses Type 6 L                              (12)*   (28)*       36        52         32        28        24         (8)*       -         8          -        16        40+12**  48+28**   48            32        12         8
Houses Type 2 t                               -        16         9        10          4         4         4          2        10          2         3         9          8        il          6          8         3         3
Houses Type I L/D                             -         -         5         3          1         1         2          -         _         -          1         2          2         1          1.         2         1         I
Sanitary facilities                           -         -         4         6          3         3         3          -         -         I          -         3          5         7          6          5         2         1
Cottage Type C                                (4)»     (4)*       5          -         2         1         1          -         -         -          1         4          4         -          -          -         -
Cottage TypeB B-                                        -         2         3          3         -         -          3         1         1          2         -          -         -          -          -         -         -
Cottage Type A                                -         -         1          -         -         -         -          -         -          -         2         1                                           -        -
Cottage Type A                                                                         -                                                  -          -         - _                  -          -          -
Il.  GENERAL SERVICES
Central Office                            (250m2)*    -           -       400m2                          25D-2                             -       250m2       -          -         -          -           -        -         _
Central Warehouse                             I                                        -         -                                         -         -         -          -         -          -           -        -
Garage                                        -         -         -          --                                                                                 -         -         -          -           -        -
Workshops                                 (Temporary) -          Wood   ½ Mech. JiStockroom    -        Vehicles  4 Mech.  4Stockroom
Chemical preparation shed                     -         -         -          -         -         -         -          _         -          -                                                                        -
Power                                         -         -    ViII.Ceit.   -            -         -         -          _         _          -   Grid Connected-            -         -          -          -         -
Center's pumping station                      1              -         -               -         -          -         11                                                                                   -        - _
Villages' pumping stations                    -                    1          1       1         1          1         -         -          I         -          1         2         2          2           1        1
iangar                                        -         -         -         -          -         1         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -         -
Division and Sector Offices                   -         -         1          1         1         1         1        1+<1)      1+(î)    1+(1)       1+(0)       1         1         1.         -           -        -
Water tank station                            -         -         -          -         -         -          -         1         1          2         2         3          2         3          2           -        -
Village truck  sheds                          -         -         1          1         1         1         -          -         -          -         2         3          2         3          2           -        -
III.  SOCIAL BUILDINGS
Schools                                       -         -         1         2          1         1          I         -         -          1         -          1         1          1         2           1        1          1
Shops                                         -         -         3         3          2         2         2          -         -          -         -          3         2         2          3           2        2          2
Markets                                       -         -         1          2         1         1                    -         -          -         -          1         2          2         2           1        1          1
Public halls                                  -         -         1          -         1         -          1         -2                                        -         -          -         -           -
Hospitals                                     -         -         -  Pavilions 1-2  -            -          -         -         -          -         -          -    Pavilion 3   -            -   Pavilion 4
Clubs                                         -         -         -  First Tranche  -            -          -         -         -          -         -          -     2nu Tranche  -           -
*   Temporary
** Reconstruction



<n          N   is     s     ,                                          151                  lé   III'
'0       wol  44
<n           <10      I t  t I  I              *I      *I         II       I                     1     1
'11%
4441    $$
4t
e,    4        - |t  
.4011-40.    I .  I  I                     I
.4<' I+        4   t   .     _.                   l    Il .                                 I .  .
t~ ~  ~         r'                  1.4      11                lî lI l                 I      II  
z:0e_^I                  I.             ..I         II                      
.4                          414r
t:                                 .    .II..I.I             
.4   ~ QI*t
$4                                                                      ç     C3       X
.4Xa                                                                          Z   
Id ~         ~                                          a                                    l       8
u    n                                            wnt U Z 
*      1.   î.       I  S                  g    0          .         ||       D   
t:10011>gS"*j                       
4141            e",*6               W»0  er   4ç«<t0S11 ¢                         0          1+0            S
C2  1411111iXwww              X     4SX«EçQS                   ."   .       _         f     » 
'G 0<



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole-Cameroun (SAFACAM)
1.        SAFACAM is a limited company incorporated in Cameroon, and is a
subsidiary of the French SOCFIN group (para 6). It was created in its present
form on November 16, 1962, taking over part of the assets of an older pre-
existing entity (SAFA). SAFACAM's capital is CFAF 820 million, divided in
164,000 shares which have a nominal value of CFAF 5,000 each. Mr. M. Bourges-
Maunoury is honorary chairman; the Chairman is Mr. J. Rouland (since November
1, 1973).
2.        SAFACAM's assets in Cameroon are essentially an estate of about
5,600 ha, planted with rubber and oil palm, situated at Dizangue near Edea.
The oil palm vere only recently planted, and are not yet in bearing. Rubber
production in the 1973/74 financial year was 4,315 tons.  Dizangue is
equipped with a modern factory capable of producing smoked sheets, block
rubber and crepe.
3.        At June 30, 1974, SAFACAM employed at Dizangue 2,101 people.  Senior
staff totalled 11, of which five were Cameroonians and six were expatriates.
Junior staff totaled 368, all Cameroonians. Labor totaled 2,100. About
10,000 people, including family members, live on the Dizangue estate.
4.        For the last fiscal year, the balance sheet showed results as
follows:
CFAF
After amortization:           118,690,000
Provisions                     47,843,400
Totalling          166,533,472
Net Profit:                   157,403,413
The financial situation of the company (at June 30, 1974) is sound, with no
loans to reimburse (neither long nor short term), and no outstanding bank
overdrafts.  Furthermore, these financial results encompassed an investment
program of over CFAF 126 million during the 1973/74 financial year.
5.        SAFA- Cameroon has embarked on a five-year investment plan,
estimated at CFAF 550 million, to increase its assets by planting 1,000 ha
of rubber and 1,000 ha of oil palm. This plan, according to cost estimates,
would involve the reinvestment of 10% of rubber sale proceeds.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        As a subsidiary of the SOCFIN Group, SAFACAM is related to one of
the most important estate company groups in the world. SOCFIN comprises
mainly the Societe des Plantations des Terres Rouges, Cie du Cambodge, Cie
du Selangor, Cie de Padang, and SOCFIN Afrique. The Group controls about
130,000 ha of perennial crops in Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and
Kenya. This group specializes in the estate production of rubber, oil palm
and coffee, and is well endowed with technical and engineering departments.
This substantial reservoir of technical knowhow would be accessible to SAFACAM
in the carrying-out of its obligations under the management contract with
HEVECAM. An unofficial translation of the Draft Agreement is at Appendix 1.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
DRAFT AGREEMENT
WHEREAS:
The Government, under its economic diversification and development
program, has provided for the establishment of a hevea agro-industrial unit
in the Kribi region, hereinafter called "the project";
SAFA-Cameroun has been entrusted with making a detailed technical
and economic study of the project;
The study has been submitted to the Government and the latter has
decided to carry out the project presented to it as soon as a definite plan
has been drawn up for financing the operation;
The protocol of agreement signed by the Government and SAFA-Cameroun
prior to that study with a view to defining the positions and intentions of
the two parties provided that the conditions binding the two parties and
their reciprocal commitments would have to be determined by an agreement at
the proper time;
The Government of the United Republic of the Cameroon entrusts
Societe Hevea-Cameroun with the responsibility for setting up and operating
the said agro-industrial unit;
Societe Hevea-Cameroun desires to have SAFA-Cameroun be responsible
for managing the execution of the project;
NOW THEREFORE:
Societe Hevea-Cameroun, thereinafter called "Hlevecam", a development
company with a capital of CFAF       million, with headquarters in Kribi, Ocean
Department, represented by the Chairman of its Board of Directors, party of
the first part, and
Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole-Cameroun, hereinafter
called "SAFA-Cameroun", represented by the Chairman of its Board Directors,
partly of the second part,
HAVE AGREED
to conclude the following agreement consisting of five titles:
Title I.   Management of Project and Technical Assistance
Title II. Staff
Title III. Marketing of Production
1/   This is an unofficial translation for informational purposes only.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Title IV. Financial Provisions
Title V.   Final Provisions
TITLE I:   MANAGEMENT OF PROJECT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Article 1. Purpose
Societe Hevea-Cameroùn entrusts to SAFA-Cameroun, and the latter
accepts, the management of the establishment, maintenance and operation of
a hevea agro-industrial complex in Ocean department, as defined in Annex 1
to the present agreement, I/ specifically, but not exclusively:
- definition of the perimeters of the land to be planted;
- preparation of the land;
- techniques of planting and maintenance of plantations;
- establishment of the services and management of the complex;
- development and/or construction of the infrastructure and installations
of the complex, particularly the latex processing plant;
- techniques of operating the plantations, particularly tapping;
- marketing of the rubber.
Article 2. Management of the Project
SAFA- Cameroun shall appoint one of its highly qualified staff to
exercise the powers conferred by statute on the Director General, to which
staff member the Board of Directors shall delegate all other powers required
for efficient management of the project.
Article 3. Technical Assistance
3.1 Extent of the assistance
SAFA-Cameroun undertakes to utilize properly and constantly, in
carrying out the present agreement, all of its technical, managerial and
rubber marketing know-how to establish and operate the plantation and
;ancillary infrastructure and to set up and efficiently run the latex pro-
cessing plant described in Annex 1.
3.2 New attainments in technical know-how
SAFA-Cameroun shall use for the purposes of the project throughout
the life of the present agreement all of its new attainments in the fields
xnentioned in Article 1 with a view to giving the plantation and the plant the
benefit of every possible improvement.
Moreover, SAFA-Cameroun, using all information bearing on the
~establishment and operation of hevea plantations, establishment and operation
of the latex processing plant and the marketing of rubber, shall constantly
l/   This annex will repeat the description in the feasibility study.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX I
Page 3
bear in mind proposing to the Board of Societe Hevea-Cameroun all practical
improvements. When selecting the plant equipment, SAFA-Cameroun shall
propose those types of plant it considers most suitable and the most advanced
techniques in terms of the economic situation and prospects of the natural
rubber market.
3.3 Use of technical assistance by Hevecam
Societe Hevea-Cameroun may use throughout the United Republic of
the Cameroon the technical assistance it will receive pursuant to paragraphs
3.1 and 3.2 above for all activities and all undertakings under its juris-
diction. It may also extend the benefit thereof to other national develop-
ment companies whose purpose includes the cultivation of hevea and production
of natural rubber.
Article 4. Preparation of annual programs and budgets
On the basis of the financing plan for establishment of the complex,
SAFA-Cameroun shall assist the Societe Hevea-Cameroun in drafting the annual
works program and budget, which are to be ready by May 15 at the latest.
The annual program shall include:
- the plantation areas considered;
- the infrastructure, installations and general services to be set up;
- construction and expansion of the plant at the proper time;
- the means to be used for planting, maintenance and operation --
staff, plants, fertilizers, materials, equipment;
- training and/or alertness programs for Cameroonian staff.
The program shall be accompanied by an estimate of quarterly
expenses. It shall also mention commitments to be assumed during the year
for operations regarding subsequent years. It may be amended in the course
of the year.
Article 5. Inspection
5.1  In addition to its own inspections within the framework of its
duties as manager of the project, SAFA-Cameroun shall have periodical in-
spections, which shall take place twice a year, all aspects of the under-
taking shall be examined: technical, accounting, financial and administra-
tive. The inspections shall be carried out by experts belonging to SAFA-
Cameroun or to companies in its group other than the staff in service in
Cameroon. Observations made during these inspections shall be communicated
to the Board of Societe Hevea-Cameroun in writing.
5.2 SAFA-Cameroun shall immediately inform the Board of Societe Hevea-
Cameroun of any event which comes to its knowledge that might hinder execution
of the project.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
TITLE II - STAFF
Article 6. Provision of staff by SAFA-Cameroun
6.1 To the extent that Cameroonian staff with the required qualifica-
tions and experience are unavailable and while they are being trained SAFA-
Cameroun shall provide the project with staff from its own organization or
from companies in its group.
6.2 Assignment of expatriate staff shall be subject to agreement by
the Chairman of the Board of Societe Hevea-Cameroun. To that end, SAFA-
Cameroun shall furnish the curriculum vitae of each of its employees it
proposes to second to the project.
6.3 The number, qualification and experience of the expatriate staff
needed are shown in the agreements and financing conventions of the project.
Justification for any increases or reductions shall be submitted by SAFA-
Cameroun to the Board of Societe Hevea-Cameroun for approval.
6.4 The staff seconded, like all staff assigned to the project, shall
devote their full time to Societe Hevea-Cameroun.
6.5 Societe Hevea-Cameroun assumes responsibility for all remuneration
of the staff seconded by SAFA-Cameroun or by companies of its group, in-
cluding:
- remuneration of staff, including various benefits and leave;
- round-trip transportation of staff, families and baggage from their
place of residence in their country of origin to their place of
residence in the project area, according to their status;
- benefits pertaining to the above move;
- employer's contribution to retirement and to cover health risks;
- social benefits.
Societe Hevea-Cameroun shall provide the staff made available to
it by SAFA-Cameroun with the benefits in kind attached to the position
occupied, defined in its regulations, specifically housing, furniture,
electricity, water, gas, vehicle for work, insurance.
6.6 The amounts received by the seconded staff shall be taxable under
the laws in effect in the United Republic of the Cameroon. However, in the
event of variation in the tax rate or tax base, the remuneration of expatriate
staff shall be revised to maintain their value after deduction of taxes.
Article 7. Training of Cameroonian staff
SAFA-Cameroun undertakes to provide training and/or alertness
courses for the staff of Societe Hevea-Cameroun.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
TITLE III - MARKETING OF PRODUCTION
Article 8.
SAFA-Cameroun would undertake to assure the commercialization of
production, if Societe Hevea=Cameroun should ask it to do so, under conditions
to be determined by agreement of the parties when the time comes.
TITLE IV - FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Article 9.
SAFA-Cameroun shall receive the following remuneration for the
various services it renders Societe Hlevea-Cameroun for execution of the
project under Title I of the present agreement:
9.1  A lumD sum of CPAF 30 million a year.
9.2  A payment fixed at 2% of the total investments for the past year
as shown on the accounting documents approved by the Board of Societe Hevea-
Cameroun.
9.3 The remunerations indicated in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall be
subject to current tax law. They shall be subject to no rebate whatever on
that account.
Article 10. Payments
10.1 Payment of SAFA-Cameroun's remuneration indicated in Article 9
above shall be made not later than September 30 following the financial
year for which it is due, to an account to be indicated to Societe Hevea-
Cameroun by SAFA-Cameroun.
10.2 It is stipulated that the financial year begins on Julv 1 and ends
on June 30 of the following year.
Article 11. Price revision
The sums included in the lump-sum payment of SAFA-Cameroun indi-
cated in paragraph 9.1 above shall be calculated as follows in order to
take into account the general economic trend:
K = Ko (o.15 + o.55  I   + o.30 E_)
Io          Eo



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 6
The definitions are as follows:
K = revised amount of annual remuneration.
Ko = CFAF 30 million a year.
Io = value at         of consumer prices of families not native to
Douala published by the Department of Statistics and National Accounts in its
Monthly Bulletin of Statistics.
Eo = value at          of the SYNTEC index published in France by
the Union Chamber of Technical Research Bureaux.
I and E are the values of the same indices for the month of
January of the financial year under consideration.
The above revision formula shall be used only if it shows a
variation of 5% or more in the amount calculated on the bases defined in
Article 9.
TITLE V - FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 12. Life of the agreement
The life of the present agreement shall be 8 years. It may be
tacitly renewed for successive periods of 4 years.
The party wishing to terminate or revise the present agreement shall
so inform the other party by registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt
at least 6 months before each of the expiration dates indicated above.
The present agreement mav be terminated by either party without
notice in the event of nonperformance or serious offense by the other party.
Article 13. Arbitration
An attempt shall be made to settle by direct agreement any dispute
arising between the contracting parties in the framework of execution of the
p'resent agreement. Failing amicable settlement, all disputes shall be re-
s,olved by an arbitral tribunal sitting at Douala, composed of 3 arbitrators
appointed as follows: one arbitrator by each partv, the third arbitrator
coopted by the other two from a list drawn up by mutual agreement between
the two parties; the term of the arbitrators shall be equal to the life of
4he agreement. Each arbitrator shall have an alternate appointed in the same
nianner and for the same term.  The alternate shall replace the principal
arbitrator in the event of the latter's impediment. The arbitrators shall
decide by majority vote. Their decisions shall be binding on the two parties.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
Article 14. Election of domicile
Societe Hevea-Cameroun elects domicile at Kribi (United Republic
of the Cameroon) B.P. _, Cable address: _
SAFA-Cameroun elects domicile at Douala (United Republic of the
Cameroon).
Article 15: Stamp and registration fees
The present agreement is exempt from stamp and registration fees.
Article 16.
SAFA-Cameroun takes cognizance of the obligations of the United
R^epublic of the Cameroon and of the Societe Hevea-Cameroun deriving from the
tERD loan 1/ and project agreements and the financing agreements with the
French Republic and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique and under-
takes to abide by the portions of those obligations that concern it.
1/   or, "IDA credit."



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Audit Terms of Reference
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Reauirements
In any business or other enterprise the prompt and regular prepara-
tion of accurate accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enter-
prise is carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are
essential not only for the enterprise itself, but also for lenders, who need
reliable information about the financial condition of the organization they
are helping to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in appraising a project,
has to be satisfied that the financial data presented are accurate and com-
plete, and that, during the implementation of the project, the borrower will
have adequate financial controls and follow proper accounting principles.
These are the reasons why the services of auditors are required for Bank/IDA
projects.
Definition of Audit
An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and account-
ing system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to
report on the financial statements of the organization and to express an
opinion on their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted account-
ing principles.
The essential features of an audit are:
(a)  to make a critical review of the system of bookkeeping,
accounting and internal control;
(b) to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors consider
necessary to form an opinion as to the reliability of the
records as a basis for the preparation of accounts;
(c)  to compare the financial statements with the underlying
records in order to see whether they are in accordance with
them;
(d)  to make a critical review of the financial statements and
to report whether, in the opinion of the auditors, the
accounts are presented and the items are described in such
a way that they show not only a true but also a fair view
and give in the prescribed manner the information required
by law.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Selection and Appointment of Auditors
The borrower is responsible for thie selection and appointment of
auditors.  The Bank Group requires, however, that the person or firm appointed
should have experience and qualifications acceptable both to the Bank Group
and to the. borrower.
The criteria employed by the Bank Group in judging the acceptability
of auditors are that the auditors should be professionallv qualified and, in
particular:
(a)  be impartial and independent of the control of the entity subject
to audit and of the person appointing them; in particular, the
auditors shotild not, during the period covered by the audit,
be employed by, or serve as director for, or have any financial
or close business relationship with the entity, except as
independent professional advisers;
(b) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and methods
in conformity with internationally recognized and generally
accepted auditing practice and employing adequate staff with
professional qualifications and suitable experience by inter-
national standards; and
(c) have exDerience of auditing the accounts of entities comparable
in nature, size and complexity to the entity whose audit they
are to undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Bank Group be furnished with sufficient information about the
auditors to enable it to satisfy itself on the ahove matters. This informa-
tion would normally include the name cf the firm (or Governnent department
or agency) the names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate
number of professional staff employed and some of the main audits carried out.
Professional and Government Auditors
The choice between professional and Government auditors will
normally depend on the nature of the project and who is executing it. A
non-revenue earning project being carried out by a Government department,
following Governmnent accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be
audited by the Government auditor. On the other hand, a revenue earning
project executed by a company or corporation (whether wholly Government-
owned or not), and using commercial accounting and budgeting procedures,
would normally be audited by a professional firm. In some cases, the nature
of the project calls for a joint audit by the Government auditor in collabora-
tion with a professional firm.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, the Bank,
wherever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, either alone or
in conjunction with an international firm.
àuditProcedures
The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed to
çenable him to arrive at an opinion on the fairness of the financial statements
,which are the subject of his report.
The extent of the auditor's tests of the accounting records is
dependent on the system of accounts and internal check and control maintained
by the company.
For this purpose, the auditor should examine:
(a) the organization and procedures for taking financial decisions
and authorizing expenditures;
(b) the design, management and operation of the accounting system;
(c) the efficiency of the system of internal control and of the
internal audit;
(d) the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(e) the effectiveness of related systems and procedures, such as
inventory control, or data processing.
In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
auditor should test the financial transactions of the organization, in con-
junction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as may be necessary
to enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness of the
transactions. their complete and proper record in the books of account, and
their effect on the financial results. The evidence referred to above will
include: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
bank statements and confirmations by third parties of amounts payable or
receivable; and information obtained by the auditor from enquiry, observation
and physical inspection.
By means of similar tests, the auditor should satisfy himself as
to the existence and basis of valuation of assets and liabilities, such as:
(a) land, building, machinery and equipment, including the provision
for depreciation;
(b) inventories, including provision for obsolescence, spoilage or
losses;
(c) receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful debts;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(d) cash and bank balances,
(e) amounts due to third parties (long and short-term loans and
suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occuring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value of commodity inven-
tories).
Audit Reports
The auditors should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Virectors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the management.
The following is an example short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of  __     __   as of
19 , and the profit and loss account and related statements for
the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities, and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements and appended
notes present fairly the financial position                          at
_  19  , and the results of its operations for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles, applied on a basis consistent in all material respects
with that of the previous year."
When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph of a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification
or disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualifica-
tion and of the effect on the financial position and results of operations,
if reasonably determinable.
The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in
the organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for
improving accounting procedures.
The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and com-
ments) of items in the various audited financial statements. Thé audited
financial statements would normally include:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c) profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement for each
major unit contributing a material part, say more than 20% of
revenue of incurring more than say, 20% of costs, or such other
criteria as the auditor shall determine;
(d) statement of sources and applications of funds.
A1i statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would caver,
for example:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d)  financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and long-form reports
to be transmitted to the Bank Group together with the audited accounts.



IvoJeetîan Y                                              2    I              4          2         6          7         I         8         12        11         12       1U         14         15        16         1-5        1-16
1. t1.6a4   ae  Yaat 7eatotbo       27.0      62.7       76.3     12.6       131.9      32.4      132.      133.1       9.3        2.1       1.6        1.1       0.6       0.6        0.3       .        426.3       840.6
SaN op.oaat.oo                       0.6       1.4        2.9       4.9       4.9        4.9       4.9        4.9       -          -         -          .         .         .          -         .         14.7        29.4
Oaalotîîid laboe                     9.1      21.1       31.0      31.7       31.1      32.1       32.0      32.1       0.6        0.6       0.4        0.3       0.2       0.1        .         -        14.0        321.4
Bridge, ccto.tt.G, etc.              96.      16.0       34.6      37.8      538.0      38.0        8.7      39.0       1.7        1.7       1.3        1.0       3.6       0.2        -         -        170.4       355.8
00-11 coo.                           0.1       0.3        0.4       8.        0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7       -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          02          4.
lovat coco                 ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~0.9  0.4  4.5  7.10  7...5.  7.5      7.5        7.3                                                                                         Il  - - .      2.  43.0
Bob-local        t       ^          i6    103.7       149.0     251.2      254.1     034.8      256.6     257.3       11.6        4        3.3        2.        1.6        0.9       0.3           o 803.3        1,596.5
2. aFsd   3  3 O4110                 °0.7      3.3        8.8      10.9       12.9      13.9       00.6      13.9                                                                                          42.6        84.3
-  caîftao                              3.3       3.6        3.7       5.7       5.7        5.7       5.7                                                                                          IS.3        35.4
see3s  .d 3=d=x4d                    0.2       1.0        0.8       1.2        1.2       1.2       1.2        1.2                                                                                           4.6         4.2
feoicclear.   0.0        0.7       1.0        c.3       1.5        1~~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  1.3  0.  4.9  9.4
-    breî*i                             .        0.02       0.        0.3     0. 3         0.3        0.3       0.3                                                                                           1.70        19,
Waetrlac                             0.1       0.2        0.3       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5                                                                                           1.0         3.0
9ae1aq1 o qi                                   5.5        t.?      14.0       14.0      14.:      7.440      44                                                                                            42.7        04.7
9Vb-ss:o            t        asr          37T                                                                                                                115.7       000.3
3. Placî.îîoî 8.calrcmbatc
raboe - OcoOki71d                              9.0      22.8      45.5       20.3      107.0      126.0     141.9     145.6     111.0       76,3      57.4      37.0       49.2       6.3        1.8     154.6        98.1
Irefoora                     ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~~3.5  4.3  10.9  18.3  19.3  16.3     48.5       10.3                                                                      .        3.           1.
8c6-coool                                   11.3       27.1      36.4       98.8     1443       044.3     184.4     144.1      111.0      76.39           5 7.4   37.0   09.2        6.3      I.       193.6     1 7
saSa ad îcdiaocsa                              0.0        1         2.7       4.7        4.7       4.7        4.7                                                                                           .5         2
Ftrdllaeca                                     2.0        6.4      19.5       37.9      58.6      74.9       89.6      89.1       72.3      52.0       00.3      10.0                                      07.9       544.6
chaScaî*                                       0.7        1.9       6.3       003 0     23.1      34.7       43.9      50.3       67.8      42.0       30.5      17.4       4.6        -         -         28.9       343.4
91 a i- .scalîaooo-a aquloc                    0.9        1.3       3.1        5.4       5.7       6.0        6.2       6.2        1.5       1.0       0.8        0.5       0.3        0.1       -         10.7        39.0
Tacpt.oa Stqol1 t D  - fa7ppoco                                                                             1.9       3.5        6.7       9.8       10.5      10.5       10.3       7.9       1.6                  64.9
...e                                                                                      7.3      43.4.      23.7      56.        39.4      39.4      39.4       09.6       0.0      __          236.3
b4468o8a1                                   _                      f 15.7  4  168.9   17%    264.8        311.8     525.3 287.5          018.9      168. 39   115         78.0 829-            9.4 310.3          0,340.7
4. 7rDoto                                  0.2       1.9       3.2        5.4       6.6        7.0       8.7        9.7       5.9        5.4       4.4       3.3        2.2      J4          0.6       0.0       17.3        04.6
lol-cototl                           44.0      137.7     216.1      381.7     464.6      517.1     567.1      615.1     343.0      197.3     226.5     174.6      118.9      70.2      44.8        8.3   1,346.1      4,238.3
8cacalecaoa coous     tîcelot         107.3      °3.0        1.5      18.4        7.0       4.1       8.8        9'3       6.6        8.0      1.7 9      128       18.8      15.0       20.       1 .79  3   33 4       1653 3
VebIolea                               15.0      33.3       23.1      19.3       18.4      26.7       25.8      34.t      17.3       22.1      38.5       54.5      44.5      34.3       89.1      34.0      109.0       571.5
Orbar.                                200.       23.8      45.3       29.3        7.2      27.6      11.3       33.0       6.6        7.2      35.3       11.3      26.0      12.5       29.2       6.5      126.1       435.2
lob-local                           163.6     269.1      224.9     146.0       32.6      56.4      43.7       37.1      30.9       33.5     183.6       84.4      07.4      81.8      1301.8    -9c        838.7     1,778.5
Il1. Oofoaatooctcît
8ta~~~~ Eqocpacl Oparaîlco  0.1       8.~~~~~~2:1  8.7     83I       9.3       6.5        8.3'      5.        1                               992      1:          1.9      1: 1                 09.5        47.0
acct6 i_fo  r ovaotd mcocos            20.3       4.5       05.4      06.23      21. 53    70        04.5 43    39 14     10.3       12.4      08.9       39.0      15.0      17.9       08.9       4,5       25 9        534.4
1011-  44i.80. J                                           12.6      60.0       11.0       8.3       8.5                  3.4        2.6                 9.9       49.6       1.8       15.0      19.3       83.4       003.2
-dcail8                                19.1      47.9      125.0     116.9       89.1      31.4      47.9      ,,444      18.9       23.0      13.1       70.9     I03.1      93.1       79.6      81.0      400.2     0.0.2
s b-8o9a3                            39.5     35         171.7     21C.4      130.9                89.2       81.2      36.6       3.3       80.0      120.0     o70.5     121.9      123.7   9 5.0        611.0
7sildo                                                                                                          38.0                 89.8                 38.0                88.0                 33.0                  093.7
aqolpuo                                                                                                         70.9                  2.                  67o.5              :87l.- 0              60.0:        ~         343.
oc-CotaI                                                                                                     120.9                121.1                125.5                156,0               108.0                  442.5
V.  flo.toccdtcloa
67.1      14.5       14.3      14.5      14.5      11.        30.0       32.0      32.0       32.0      32.0      32.7 I2.      0      32.0       32.0      32.0      143.0       384.3
cootactootl  tatO  a . Eopaooaca   3.1  3.3  1060      121.      143.       143.5     136.1       36.1      21.2       t.0       71.       38.2       38.0      3.0        50.       38.0      460.0      ,405.
-eofsstiss^1  local S^lorles   8erires  3.8 i 310 .4  21.  .4  07. 3  29.2  35.7      44.1      55.3       77.2      94.5      118.4     186.4      116.4     118.4     010.4       86.3      1,0 34.
îlbac aalarca.                          9.3       14.0      20.7       27.3      01.4       34.4      36.8      40.8       42.9       44.3      46.7      49.4       32.5.     81.7      55.4       07.9     103.2        623.8
7oacpor                                  7.9      13.7       21.0      26.8      33.7       36.0      38.4       41.6      41.4      42.4       44.4      47.6       49.7      51.3       53.4      53.0      105.4       607.0
.oOi-o SQ4_C                             2 0.1     3.1        3.8       5.0        5.9       6.7       7.7        0.        0.8        6.7      00.0       1.        1.        11.5       11.9      10.7       19.9       128.0
Boaltil                       ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~     ~ ~~~~2.3  3.3  5.7  7.7  8.3  10.8  11.7   j: 125    1.       11.0       11.       12.8       13.9      150       1.         17,1      387         175.8
.at r aod nDsercie7                     4.5        8.9      15.8       21.1      25.5      27.1       20.0      30.9       29.9      29.9       32.3      33.6      28.2       0         30.7       31.       75.0       409.6
cocac<Dstrocio 7Dltocaao                 2.7       5.0        8.8      12.2       13.t      19.2      16.9       20.4      20.3       20.8      22.1      23.6       24.5      25.2       25.9      26.4       44.5       091.4
och-r oasq,cr. caa0.                               I.         2.         .                   7.3       7.c        8.0       49         6.         .9       1.        10.2'     I1.4       13.2      14.3~    133          100.
-ocara Offa                              9.1       9.5        0.8       01.4      10.4      10.7      11.0       11.3      41.8       12.3                            5         14.       17.6      8..3 l2   4139        223.0
lcb-lotal                            164.7     142.3      230.8     276.3      323.5     443.7     363.6      386.0     380.3      371.3     383.7     403.7      404.1     420.6      422.5     432.    1,1 37.0     3,551.7
o! tîict IDVOcvaesaa,                164.7     142.3      250.8     276.3      323.5     443.7     365.6      366.7     344 3      208.6     233.3      102.3     113.2      446.        -         -      1,137.3     3,111.3
n,  bood croc  Ccvocc                                    39.1      37.5       36.4       7.4                                                                                                                        U0.30.6      137.6
l71. Arocaoc  0844108 Irolodloo Prtoaoaplcc
cf Sacoocd 7hi. Pilas otoc               20.0       02.0       2.0        2.3       3.8        3.6       3.3       3.5        3.7       3.7         .7       3.5        3.5       5.0 3.0   3.0        3.0      49.7         8
cf .6046 ODYorDuMea.                     00.0       22.0       2.2        2.3       3.8        3.6       3.3       3.3        3.0       0.5        1.5       1.0        0.5       -         -          -        49.7         6
3311.lcPOotJo Pt.                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~36.9  43.8  47.4   50.9      49.0       49.1      50.7       34.       44         40.       44.0      40.        3.        33.8            35.4  3       217.4        708.5
local  b                     470.~~~~~~~~~~~~UC7  707 .7  9380.6   1,10-3.9   1.021.4   0,444 1,11-7.9   1,318.9  802.3    832.6     715.1     730.1      529.8     503.8     333.9      341.1   4,239.3    1l27r1
08. ceaoel 02441..                        1i0.8       120.0      75.0                                                                                                                                             275.0        7.0
frojac- co5a olococa Coctcoa,claa        370.7     887.7   1,o35.8   I,10D.9   1,021.4   1,140.4   1,117.9    1518.39       -01.3      832.6     7S8.1     731.1      519.6     523.0    353.9       341.2   4,3U4.3 - 3,000.3
7h1.1101 îCtîoocit.l (St>                28.5       40.4      50.3       55.4      51.1       57.4      55.9       65.9      40.1      41.6       39.2      36.6       26.5      26.2       17.8      17.1     225.7        650.0
local                               398.8     843.1   1,055.9   1,164.3   1,072.5   1.205.8   1,173.0   1,344.9        44a.4      873.2     824.3      787.7     556.1     548.2      573.7     359.3   4,740.0    13.650.3
hoe p            -îd brOc r   /3          74.5     156.6      329.8     513.4      601.8                                                                                                                      1,675.1     1,675.1
3      ."0050                       673.7   1,004.7   1,384.7   1,677.7   1,674.3   1,205.8   1,173.0   1,344.6        642.4      873.2     824.3      767.7     556.0     349.2      373.7     358.3   8,415.1    15,3I5.4
2/  socl44aa vcaboea., aacaa.,  or-abopa ad Offloaa, vocar a447D  poaso acplaacboc.
J/ 0,,2344. ceaoba, ahol,a, .cboola, aaeloi cloba aSi boapîlol.
y/ bar îfccl voabe,   _ ,oo9ad Ioorezzaa  ot 165 foc n 1. 14% for n 2. 12i for  r 3 e2 -5 codoca
i -caa  foc aquimt Dd ooboc cosOco  12% (<b 1>, 18% (. 2) -S 8% (n 3-5).



CAeEOON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Srr~ Ooot lh. HI. oer Ai iult,ul Dnolo~nt
Proeoteat                                               1                3        4                6        7       ê
Preparation    Plantation ---------        Maintenance - ---------                    Cot pr ha
I. DIRECT COSTS
A. Land Clearing and Roads                    90,184 g                                                                         90,184
B. Land Preparation
Labor                                       7,300                                                                            7,300
Covwe Crop                                  3,000                                                                            3,000
a.A7w  tU3t                                   372                                                                               372
Small Equipment                               100                                                                              100
Transport ?,                                 100                                                                               100
Subtotal                         10,872                                                                            10,872
C. Plantation                                         54,363 3/1                                                               54,363
D. Maintenance- of fields
- Labor                                             18,341   7,538    8,505    7,446    6,4W7    2,1$0     1,059   51,576
- 1.aV l>put                                           130    130                                                      260
- Fertilizer                                        9,000   9,000    9,000    6,000                                33,000
- Chemicals                                          1,500   4,100    5,600    4,500    3,900                      19,600
_ Small Equipment                                      251    103      117      102       89  l5,5L2       4,447    20,651
- Transport 2/                                        501    433       434      407      231      1:0        65    2,201
Bubtota3                                          29,723  21,304   23,656  18,455   10,717   17,8(2       5,571  127,288
-of roade                                            321     321      321      321      321      298 4/            1,903
Direct Conte                                101,056  54,363   3C,044  21,625   23,977   18,776   11,038  18,160       5,571  284,610
II.
Heavy Equipment                              27,829    8,231 ,/  136    1.36       68       68       68     144               36,680
Saea                                            780      37                                                                      817
Transport Devices  /                            113     512      200    173       173      163      92       52                1,478
Subtotal                       28,722    8,780      336    309       241      231     160      36                38,975
TOMDLoS                                     129,778   63,143  30,380  21,934   24,218   1),007   11,198  18,356       5,571   323,5S5 -
y/ W.±ghled average of land cl.ar±ng and read canutruction 1y contractor (table 3  ) nd by estate (Table h ).
Incluing VêEilIe maintenance.
'/ Weighted average of costs/ha fer direct aeed plating (2/3  r CFAF 4,400).
and planting of aeeds bred in polybag (3/3 of 66,279).
4 Includes COFA 298 for jpoad improvemnt.
Inclides coât of watering oquipmnt.
J Tvo-fifths of transport direct costs.



ANN4EX 5
Table 3
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJEOT
LAND CLEARNG AND) ROAD CONSTRU0TIO
Civil Works by Contractor - Completion by Esltat. Force -Account
Costs per Ha
(CFAF)
I. DIRECT COSTS
A. Works by Contractor
Land Preparation                                                         60,000
Partial Construction of_- Roads                                          10,500
- Trails and Sidings                             -7,050    77,550
B. Works by Estate
Topography (lP mandays)                                                   1,460
Completion of Land Preparation
- Labor (56.5 mandays)                                      21,,52
- Saw'1 ( (1  hours)                                         1,950    23,.302
Completion of Roads
- Labor (0,3 nmandays )                                        110
- OperatTon Heavy Equipment - 270 HP tractor (0.165 h)    1,150
- 125 HP tractor (0.126 h)       l20
- Grader (0.165 h)               330
- 65 HP Compacter  (0.165 h)    165
- Bridges, Culverts, etc.                                   23,000    ? "225
Miscellaneous use of small equipment ( 5 CFAF per manday)                    314
Transport (5 CaAF per manday)                                                31),   50,615
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                                  128,165
Il. MATEPRAL AI4ORTIZATION
E-avy Equiprent                                                                       1,211
Saws                                                                                    730
TOTAL                                                               130,156



AWNUEX 5
Table 4
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Land Clearing and Road Construction bly Estate Force Account
Costs_per Ha
CFAF
DIRECI COSTS
Topography (h.i .iandays)                                                  1,606
Land Clearing, includine Tree Fellin-
- Labor (3l.> .mandays)                                 11,6h3
- 270 HP tractor for tree felling (4,555 h)             35,025
- 270 HP tractor for trail opening (1,65 h)             11,657
- Saws (10 h)                                            1.,950        60,275-
Road Construction
- Labor (0.3 manday)                                       110
- Heavy Equipment - 270 HP tractor (0.165 h)             1,150
- 125 HP tractor (0.120 h)              420
- Grader (0.165 h)                      380
- 65 HP Compacter (0.165 h)             i65
- Bridges, Culvert-  etc.                               23,000         25,225
Miscellaneous Use of Small Equipment (5 CFAF/MD)                             183
Transport (5 CFAF/MD)                                                        133
TOTAL DIPRECT COSTS                                                  87,472
II.  MATERIAL AMORTIZATION
Heavy Equipment                                                           27,611
Saws                                                                          730
Transport Devices                                                              73
TOTAL                                                               115,936



-       a`~~NI?EX 5
TaIble 5
CAM'EROON
NIETE wRUBBER ESTATE PPROJECT
Salaries and Costs of Professional Staff
(CFAF 'OO)
Expatriat~e                          National
A          B                 A           B            C
Average annual wages                 5,h00      h,200             6,000       3,000        1,200
Dependency allowances
and other benefits                3,030       1,6o8             2,160       1,170          495
Travel allowance                     1,O hO       7),4               220        220          _
R.etiremrent plan                      810        527                 52         52           52
Social charges                         520         3)5               368        208          153
Totel                          13,800       7,450             8,800       4,650        1,'jO
of which taxes               5,000       2,483             1,600         930          380
Total without t&xes             8,804 4,967                   7,200       3,720        1,520
of which foreign exchange   8,280        4h,70             1,660         930          380
A. Serior Professional Staff
B. Junior Professional Staff
C. Division Chiefs
Notes The staffing schedule is at Annex 2, Table 4.



A
CANENM
NIETE RUBBElR STTE PRECT
------ -------- ------ ------ ------ Daily ---           ----M-    5~~   othly ------- -
Unskilled Labor  Tapper/Grafter  Driver  Mechanic   Clerk   Tean Chef Overseer Asistszt Secretary  I1rse
Daily Plage                                     224           236            362        456       780       241          286      31,017
Preniua                                          74           163            138        151       218       138          195       7,738
Siocial Charges                                  29            39             50         58       102        36         3090        3,778
Total Wages                               327            438            550        665    1,100        415          531     I42,533    26,600    26,600
Allocation for supervision
and village administration coste              38 1           47 ?__                                        10 -0 -/
Total daily coste                         365            485            550 y      665    1,100        425          541      1&2,533    26,600    26,600
of which  xes (15 o/o)                  55             73             83        100       165        - 9/         -  5/      -   /      -  5/    -  5_
Foreign Exchange                        s8             78             88        106       176        68           87       6,805      4,256     4,256
1/1/2C0 o  1 ea-i hi   s s niary    121
2/dU o_ Overseer's salarj '       7
!AI/Lu o  vi 'a e administra-
tion d±ily coste, i.e. of
dafly csots Of Deputy las-st-
ant, a ecretary fard lurse      -    j
j1/V15 of Team Chief SaJlary        28
1/60 of Overseer Salary           9
1/400 of village administration
Oaily costs as defined in note
1/above                        = 10
Total
j Amount doubled for heavy equipment drivers.
2/400 of village administration daily costs as defined in noteyabove.
5/ Included in taxes for wm2kill d labeor and Tapper/Crafter.



MINEX 5
Table 7
CAMERDON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
HousingCosts
Size of Lodging
Per BuildinL,          Unit _(,2)
Professlonal Staff
Project Manager                    13,860                  220
Type A Houce                      12,600                   200
Type B House                        9,283                 '172
Type C House                        5,085                  11J
Middle Level Staff
Type D House                        1,296                   72
Type E House 1/                       960                   60
Labor
Type F House 2/                     1,200                   24
Sanitary Facilite                        ,520
S<'hools                                a,S92 J                l59
Marketing Faci~Lities
Shops                               1,600                  100
Market                              2,500                  200
Hospital 5/                            71,000                1,200
Estate Clubs
Professional Staff                 2E,000                 -00
Middle Level Staff                 20,000                  L100
Mceting Houses                          2J700                   200
1/  t2wo lodging units.
2/  Six lodging u4its.
T/  Consists of: wash block  two foentains ane 2h toilets.  Tetil area: 1h0 m2.
h/  Including f'urniture anl sanitary facilitiés.
7/  Including equipient.
NOTE: The satffing schedule in a t Annex 2, Table 4.
The housing sche4»4e is at Annex 2, Table 8.



Table I
NIE1E ROBBER ESTATE PL80ET
_evecaa Inone  Stan1
<CVAP atîllion>
Projeot Ye-r                                        8           9          1_          il          12          13          14          15-         16         17          18          19          20          21          22          23          24          25
Prodeetion Conta
1. _iell d1iotenace ani 3-rvcs i>
Field Mainten.nçe                              0.5         1.2         2.6         4.5         6.4         8.4        10.3       11.6         11.6       11.6        11.6        11.6        11.6        11.6        11.6        11.6        11.6          11.6
Har-e.ti.g                                     4.8        25.2        65.9       135.2       229.6       331.4       433.3      528.9       596.2       619.1       627.5       641.5       558.2       676.6       700.6       724.3       738.9         753.6
Transport                                      0.1    0.3    0.7   _                            .t _  .0_    84.4_ _8                                     49549 _495__5_1                                            5__    35.4--4
Sub-tot-l                                 5.4        26.7        63.2      141.1       238.2       342.8       447.4       54S.9       612.6       635.6       644.0      658.0       674.8       693.3       717.3        741.2       755.9        770.6
2. _ro_seng. CstaL                                 2.0.       15.2        40.6        89.6       161.3       247.8       347.2      453.8        550.4      618.7       673.7       715.2       745.4       764.3       772.5       774.2       770.2         764.6
3. _xe   xEmnditures                              19.3        38.2        81.7       150.4       223.2       290.9       374.4      422.5       432.2       436.8       452.6       447.0       451.6       459.3       458.4       460,7       463.2        463.6
4. Reneual of Eng,ipcnt and
M_eseîllnelou  itaeau                                                                                                                                 184.3        87.6        96.3        79.5        80.5        71.0        88.5        51.9         83.2
5.                                                 0.ro2o a1tudies  _°  0.7    ... 1.2   __  2.2   2.5    _       3.0     3.0   _     3           3.0   ----3.0--3.0___   3.0-__      .          3. 3.0  3.0                         3.0          3.0          3.0
Sub-total                                26.9        90.8       192.7      383.3       625.2       884.5    1,172.0    1,424.2    1,59d.2    1,878.4    1,860.9    1,919.5    1,954.3    2,000.4    2,022.2    2,067.6    2,044.2                 2,085.0
6.  hsical _tonLn        es (5)                    1.3                     9.6_   _ 9t_    31.3  _            44.         5a.6  ___71.2           79.9     _93-          93.0        96.0__97.7    _00._    101.1    _03.4                       102.2        104.
Total Produ. tio:. lCt                            28.2        84.5       202.3       402.5       656.5       928.7    1,230.6    1,495.4    1,678.1    1,972.3    1,953.9    2,015.5    2,052.0    2,100.4    2,123.3    2,171.0    2,146.4                2,189.2
Net Salon        .                                 14.1       105.2      280.4       619.3    1,114.7    1,713.0    2,400.1    3,137.0    3,80S.6    4,276.7    4,655.9    4,9S3.5    5,152.3    5,283.1    5,339.2    5,351.7    5,323.7                   5,284.7
Oroos bonoe          .                -           (14.1)      20.4        78.1       216.8       453.2       784.3    1,169.5    1,641.6    2,126.5    2,304.4    2,703.0    2,928.0    3,100.3    3,182.7    3,215.9    3,180.7    3,177.3                3,095.5
Deprooiation of Estate aai Factory            16.1        40.3       88.6       155.7       222.8       289.9       357.1       402.7       402.7       402.7      402.7       402.7       402.7       402.7       402.7       402.7       402.7         402.7
Annuel Net 1.,nne (Lons) before Debt Service  (30.2)         (19.9)      (10.5)       61.1       235.4       494.4       812.4    1.238.9    1,723.8    1,901.7    2.300.3    2,525.3    2.697.6    2,780.0    2,813.2    2,778.0    2.714.0                2,692.8
Debt Service                                                                                                                                     184.1       175.9       167.3      158.1        148.5       138.3       127.5       116.2       10S.2         91.7
A-nual Net Inase (Lu9e) after Debt Service   (30.2)          (19.9)                                                                           1.539.7    1,725.8    2.133.0    2,367.2    2.549.1    2,G41,7    2,685.7    2,661,8    2.670.4               2,601.1
Inuoe Tan (537.)                                                                      30.S       117./       247.2       406.2       619.4       769.5      862.9    1.066.5    1,183.6    1,274.5    1.320.8    1,342.8    1.330.9    1,335.2             1.300.5
Annuel Net To.mo..9  .L> Aval niet                (30.2)      (19.9)      (10.5)      30.6       117.7       247.2       406.2       619.5       769.9       862.9    1.066.5    1,183.6    1,274.6    1,320.9    1,342.9    1,330.9    1,335.2             1,300.6



NlETE Rb3rbR E0STM  PROJICOT
ll     -  So5-d A-ta-i    of FtDd.
(c.A8  Mdlli9D)
1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8        9        10        il       12        13        14        15       16        17        18        19        20        21        22        23        24        2S
846 fr..fe - .- f 0 0870-t61 - r   002- C2 -  8                   856.1 2/ 861.2  1,283.7  1,677.0  1,674.3  1,203.8  12173.8  1,384.8    842,4    873.2    824.3    767.7    556.1    549.2    375.7    358.3
. 1068f 80.80= rntolv..t.6
0.6o  _/                                                                                                                                       340.5    537.1    549,2    373.7    558.3
S,4-101*1                                               836.1    881.2  1,283.7  1,677.0  1,674.3  1,205.8  1,173.8  1,384.8    842.4    873.2    824.3    4Z7.2              19.0
9et C..h IG9ffi                                                                                                                                  20.4      76.1    186.3                        il4.1    648.5    814.3  1,265,6   1,469. 2   1,56.3  1,677.3  1,723.6   1.745.6   1.733.6   1,737.9  1,703.3
T011 S8urc..                                                836.1    881.2  1,283.7  1,677.0  1,674.3  1,205.8  1,173.8  1,3S4.8    862.8    951.3  i.010.6    767.7    556.1    763.3   0,02z.z   1,172.6   1,245.6   1,469.2   1,586.3  1,677.3  1,723.6   1,7456   1,733.6  1,737,9  1,703.3
Al!!ICAT0NS
7.09.01 C0.1.                                                     536.1    881.2  1,283.7   1,677.0  1,674.3  1,205.8  1,173.8   1,384.8    842.4    873.2    824.3    767.7    336.1    549.2    373.7    358.3
R6 1 py 8c 0 o000=0t t 1022                                                                                                                                                                                         149.3    157.6    166.3    175.4    185.1    195.3    206.0    217.3    229.3    241.9
Sg pîo(l ..)                                                     300.0                                                                (14.1)    20.4     78.1    186.3                         214.1    648.5    665.0  1,108.0   1,302.9  1.410.9   1,492.0  1,5ZS.3   1.539.6   1.516.3  7.,03.6  1,461.4
C7GI-Oî      P0710                                                2bO.0    300.0    300,0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    285.9   3S.3    384.4    570.7    570.7    570.7    784.8  1,433.3   2,098.3   3,206.3  4,509.2   5.920.1   7.412.3   8,940.6  10.480.2  11,996.5  13.583.1  14,966.5
1   S   «   5. 1.bl 1. Z.ood.-- 0.18 of -li.1 .1.46..  I
2/ IGIDdCFAF 30021000 Le. 7 E-r fGdiD7 3H80, 60166.10..I. .51.6
3  848 78b1 1, 1hi. 6 _.. b-f  6 11 to dp       a e6. b.b.0,6.1 *bo,t 1787 600 .1l1110  b.f1.-0 .0< i8 3t. 0893.h 1605.-



PcojactYaar                              ~      ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~~1  2  3  4  3  6       7          O           9         10          il          12         13          14          13         16          17          18          19          20
OUrNiOFS
Net Tranofar t. Hevecax 1/                      831.1       881.2   1,283.7   1,677.0   1,674.3    1,205.6    1,173.8   1,364.8              842.4      673.3       634.3       427.2        19.0
Regtna ...   Stes.                               117.6      123.5       101.0
Debt Service                                       7.3   --20.3  --38.35    -60.2  -                83.0   62.         62.2.0.0                2.80.0               13.4        14.0        41.9       16.2        176.1       203.5       237.3   -248.4         270.0       279.0
Sob-total                                 981.2    1,025.2   1,423.2   1,737.2   1,731.3   1,287.8   1,233.6    1,466.8                924.4       955.'      961.7       573.2      172.9        161.2      176.1       203.3       227.3       249.4      270.0       279.0
IN31LO0S
ISA Cradit                                      330.1       370.1       766.7      937.0       954.1
CCCE L.s.                                        -91.7    -136.4       219.0  ' -263.6         263.1
Sob- total                                421.6       726.3    1,037.7    1.222,6    1,219.2
Revenes f-oo  Taxation
-£ nI -cjet Sprtoa179.0                                    143.0       276.0      303.0       337.0      323.0       343.0       270.0      192.0       206.0      310.0       249.0       252.0      206.0       393).0      316.0       312,0      309.0       314.0       320.0-
-  f         Ieec .nIcoe 2/                                                                                                                                         30.3      117.7       247.2      071.2       619.4       769.8       862.9   1,066.5   1,183.6    1.274.5
-  f Exports                                                                                                                                      -----37-. 1.     3.          5.          9.         126.6      163.4       70.2.                    4 5. 5    26~0.       271.7
Su"S-total                                179.5       145.0      326.0Ç      300.0       337.0      323.0       243.        270.7      197.5   ~ 2U.8         213.1       425.4       569.3       816.8   1,074.8   1,286.4    1,400.4    0,620.0    1,758.3   1,866.2
Total mufcus                                          603.6       673.3    1,233.7   0l,322.6    1,356.2        323.0       343.0      270.7       097.5       "3.'.P     273.1       425.4      569.5       806.0    1,074.8   1,286.4    1,400.4    1,620.0   0,758.3   1,866.2
urpio-  (deficlt)                                    (380.43    (151.7)    (187.3)    (214.4)    (203.1)    (964.6)(,1.)    (1,191.1)  (726.9)    (734.43    (686.63    (147.63                  416.6       657.6       696.7    1,062.9   1,173.1    1,370.6    1.488.3   1,587.2
CunolOîlvO Oc-plo-  (dnficîr)                        (380.4)    (532.1>    (709.6>    (934.0) (1,134.1) (2,093.9) (3,111.7)   (4,307.6)(3,534.7) (5,769.1) (6,457.7) (6,605.33  (6,186.9) (3,331.3) (4,634.6>  (3,231.7) (2,370.6) (1,008.0)    4&U.3   2,067.5
1/  S.e Tabla 2, thOn(ccx
2/ ..a Table 1, thlo Annen.



Annex 6
Table 4
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$ '000)
Project Year                  Quarter                    Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
1                           1                                 367
2                                734
3                               1,100
4                              1,467
2                           1                               2,100
2                              2,733
3                              3,366
4                              4,000
3                           1                               4,877
2                              5,753
3                              6,629
4                              7,506
4                           1                               8,569
2                              9,632
3                             10,695
4                             11,759
5                           1                              12,819
2                             13,879
3                             14,939
4                             16,000



Annex 6
CAMEROON                                                                                                     Table 5
NIETE RUBBER L'STATE PROJECT
Hevecam Sources and Applications of Funds 1/ (5,800 ha)
(CFAF Million)
Project Year                                       1       2       3      4       5       6       7       8       9     10      il      12      13      14      15     16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23      24      25
SOURCES
Net Transfer from Goveroneot                         2/
Pro3ect Costs                                856-   881  ],283  1,678  1,312    604    580    677    416    292    356               46
less Hevecan Reinvested Cash t.ros            __     _                                                                               46
856    881  1,283  1,678  1,312    604    580    677    416    292    356              -
Hevecam Net Cash Income                                                                                                          37    173    293    403    461    460    127          583    577    583    586    605    576    575    558
Total Sources                            856    881  1,283  1,678  1,312    604    580    677    416    292    393    219    293    403    461    460    '07                  583    577    583    586    605    576    575    558
APPLICATIONS
Proiect Costs
Agricoltural Development                       46    138    216    382    288    147    121    114           86      65      55      14
Materials                                     164    269    225    147        13      23      18     31      12      16      78
Infrastructure                                40      54    172    214    131        47      50      46      22      23      49
Fa-tory                                                                                             121                     121
Fixed Expenditures                            165    142    230    277    323    323    323    291    239    139
Food Crop                                              39     37      36
Agronom.ical Studies                           20      22       2      2
SAFACAM Fee                                    37     43      47      51      45      40      40     42      37      35      36      30
Physical Cuntingoncies (SJ)                    24      35     47      55      40      29      28      32     20      14      17       2
Expected Price Increase                        60    139    307    514    472
Sub-total                                556     881  1,283  1,678  1,312    604    580    677    416    292    356             46
Repayment af Government Loua                                                                                                                                       149    158    166    175    185    195    206    717    229    242
Hevecam Cash Loss                                                                                        (27)   (27)   (28)
Surplus (Doficit)                                 300      -       -       -      -       -       -      (27)   (27)   (28)    37    173    293    403    461    311    349    417    402    398    391    399    359    346    316
Cumulativc Surplus                                300    300    300    300    300    300    300    273    246    218    255    428    721  1,124  1,585  1,896  2,245  2,662  3,064  3,462  3,853  4,252  4,611  4,957  5,273
1/  ):'cludes conts ot  regional studics.
2,' Icl.dOs CFAF 300 nilliua for fu.il,,g Ilevecam'c initial cash bhu-ncc.
/  Salvage value of equipment.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Natural Rubber: Trends and Outlook
1.        Over the past 25 years the world 1/ market for elastomers - both
natural and synthetic rubbers - expanded at an average rate of about 6.2%
per year. A slower expansion of demand in two major consuming countries -
the United States and the United Kingdom - was more than offset by an above-
average growth in all other countries. On the supply side there was a
sharply different pattern for the two types: natural rubber supply increased
by 2.5% per year while synthetic rubber supply grew at about 10.5%. Con-
sequently, natural rubber's share of the market declined from 65% in 1950-52
to 33% in 1970-72. Natural rubber's share declined faster in the United
States than in any other consuming area; in contrast, synthetic rubber's
gains were common to all consuming countries, both developed and developing.
In 1972, synthetic rubbers held 78% of the total market in the United States,
down to 65% in Japan, 64% in Western Europe, and 27% in India.
2.        The bulk of rubber is used in the manufacture of tires and other
automobile parts. In all developed countries, demand for rubber in these
end-uses expanded much faster than available supply of natural rubber. The
gap was met by the rapidly expanding petrochemical industry: first
styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR) and then polybutadiene (PB) and polyisoprene
(PI). SBR has been by far the most important substitute, accounting for
about 60% of total synthetic rubber production. Polybutadiene is second in
importance, followed by polyisoprene which is the closest man-made approxi-
mation of natural rubber. One key to the success of the synthetic rubber
industry was the seemingly unlimited availability of chemical monomers at
continuously declining prices. Synthetic rubber prices declined sharply (by
over 40%) during the sixties and natural rubber prices followed suit, al-
though fluctuations were wider for natural rubber. Demand for all elastomers,
which ls by nature a derived demand, is quite insensitive to price changes,
but very sensitive to changes in aggregate economic activity. Synthetic
rubber producers can make speedy adjustments to variations in market demand,
through capacity expansion and/or higher utilization of existing capacity.
In contrast, natural rubber producers cannot so easily transfer resources
in and out of rubber production. Although no clear consensus exists as to
the actual area of competition between natural and synthetic rubber, it is
evident that changes in relative prices do encourage substitution of one type
of rubber for another.
1/   Excluding the centrally planned countries, as conventionally defined
for purposes of commodity analysis.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        In the past two years, natural rubber prices have fluctuated
fairly rapidly, responding to two sets of circumstances. The first rise, in
1972-73, was the result of the world-wide economic boom; this boom began
to taper off in the second half of 1973. World consumption of natural
rubber lncreased by 4% in 1972; net exports of natural rubber, however,
remained at the same level as in 1971, as stocks in developed countries vere
heavily drawn upon. Stagnation of import demand kept prices down throughout
most of the year, until stock replenishments and anticipatory buying, fos-
tered by monetary uncertainties, caused a sudden reversal of the trend in the
closing months of 1972. The price rise continued throughout most of 1973.
The upturn in industrial production in developed countries created a strong
demand for rubber, and speculative buying also continued in 1973. Natural
rubber prices - in terms of RSSI, CIF, New York - increased from 16.5 ct/lb
in April 1972 to about 44 ct/lb in July 1973.
4.        Towards the end of 1973, as the industrial slowdown was beginning
to affect demand for all elastomers and prices of natural rubber were
weakening, the availability of chemical feedstocks was severely curtailed by
the oil crisis. Synthetic rubbers became scarce, their prices increased
sharply, and natural rubber prices rebounded to new peaks. RSSI, CIF New York,
averaged at 55.5 ct/lb in January 1974. These prices reflected the scarcity
of all elastomers, but also the expectation that the oil crisis would
drastically increase the cost and price of synthetic rubber. Heavy specula-
tion came to characterize the natural rubber market.
5.        During 1974, with crude oil becoming progressively more available
and chemical feedstocks again in adequate supply, the price of oil and the
economic slowdown became dominant. The production costs of the basic type
of synthetic rubber - SBR 1500 - increased from 12-13 ct/lb to about 23 ct/lb
and its market price from 17 ct/lb to 32-33 ct/lb. The very high price
differential between natural rubber and general-purpose synthetic rubber could
no longer be maintained and natural rubber prices - in terms of RSSI, CIF
New York - declined to 40 ct/lb in June 1974. As car production declined
sharply, consumption of rubber in tires and other automobile parts declined
substantially. On a world basis, consumption of all elastomers remained at
about the same level as in 1973, and, during the last 3-4 months of 1974,
the supply-demand situation completely reversed itself to one of extra
supply. Prices of general purpose synthetic rubbers declined by 10-15% in
the second half of 1974, and natural rubber prices continued to slide down-
ward to about 30 ct/lb in December, despite some attempts to support the
market through production cutbacks and stockpiling by the Malaysian govern-
ment.
6.        No drastic changes are expected over the short-term.  Demand for
all elastomers is expected to increase only marginally in 1975. There is
substantial over-capacity in the synthetic rubber industry. Natural rubber,
however, will marginally benefit from the above-average growth of some end-
uses in which it had a relative advantage over synthetic rubbers - heavy



ANNEX 7
Page 3
truck and farm equipment tires - and from the growth of radial car tires,
where the proportion of natural rubber is greater than in crossply tires.
Demand for natural rubbers is, therefore, expected to increase moderately
above 1974 levels.
7.        Looking ahead to the end of the decade, world consumption of all
rubbers is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.4% between 1973
and 1980 1/. Over the same period, world supply of natural rubber is fore-
cast to grow at some 5.6% per year. Improvements in yield are expected to
account for most of the growth in rubber output in the seventies. Pro-
duction capacity of synthetic rubbers is forecast by industry specialists
to be around 8.8 million tons by 1977, and extrapolation would put capacity
at 10.0 million tons by the end of the seventies. To meet total elastomers
demand by 1980, the industry would have to increase its capacity ratio from
a normal level of around 75% to about 85%. It can, therefore, be expected
that synthetic rubbers will be in relatively tight supply. It is unlikely
that natural rubber producers would then encounter serious difficulties in
disposing of their supplies. In fact, a larger than expected increase in
natural rubber output - for example, through technical means such as more
extensive use of production stimulants 2/ -- could possibly allow natural
rubber to marginally increase its share of world total rubber consumption.
In addition, reduction in the rate of growth of natural rubber utilization
in centrally planned countries is anticipated to increase availabîlities
for the rest of the world. Analysis of the relationship between crude oil,
basic chemicals, and general-purpose synthetic rubber costs indicates that,
assuming crude oil prices in 1980 will be about US$8.65 per barrel (in 1974
dollars), SBR prices should be in the range of 29-34 ct/lb. Correspondingly,
RSSI (CIF New York) should be selling at 31-36 ct/lb in 1974 terms. In
1980 dollars, the price of natural rubber is expected to be in the range of
51-59 ct/lb.
8.        Beyond 1980, the prospects of natural rubber appear to be quite
favorable on the demand side. Total demand for all rubbers is forecast to
grow at about 6% per year between 1980 and 1985. The potential supply of
natural rubber - with existing acreage and available production technology --
1/ Projected on the basis of the relationship between total elastomer con-
sumption and industrial production. Regression analysis shows that a one
percent increase in industrial production in OECD countries is associated
with a 1.18 increase in the demand for all elastomers. About 98% of the
variation in elastomer consumption us explained by the growth in indus-
trial production. OECD -- Organization for Economic Cooperation and De-
velopment -- includes the industrialized countries of western Europe,
North America and Japan.
2/   The main stimulant is Ethrel, a brand-name chemical, which acts as a
decoagulant when applied to trees and thus increases latex flow.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
is projected to grow at 3.7% per year between 1980 and 1985 (see Table 1).
This implies that the 1985 market share of natural rubber outside the centrally
planned countries would decrease to about 29% because of insufficient supplies.
To maintain 32% of the market -- a feasible objective in terms of the techni-
cal-economic potential of natural rubber -- producers should increase their
output at 5.5% per year between 1980 and 1985. This likely shortfall in
natural rubber availabilities in the 1980's indicates the need for increasing
natural rubber supply faster than what appears to be possible under present
expansion plans.
9.        From the point of view of future prices, the prospects of natural
rubber appear to be favorable only if one assumes that crude oil prices will
remain at US$8.65 per barrel, in 1974 dollar terms, and that no major shifts
of the petrochemical industry will take place in the 1980's. A drop in the
price of oil would again make feedstocks cheaper and increase the relative
competitiveness of general-purpose synthetic rubbers. Similarly, a large
uncoordinated expansion of petrochemicals capacity in oil-producing countries
would increase the supply of these products and -- other things being equal --
depress their prices to the advantage of synthetic rubber manufacturers. To
allow for the possibility of lower chemical prices in the 1980's, the
long-run equilibrium price of natural rubber is forecast to be around 35
ct/lb in 1974 constant dollar terms.



N3TE RUBBLR ESIETA PROJECT
NMturul RLubb.er World Produ&tiom md CoauMawtton
GROWTH RATES
ACTUAL                                PROJECTED               1973      1 980
1954-56   1964-66   1967-69   1970-72   1973           1980        1 985 /3      to 1980  to 1985
----------------------1,000 metric tons---------------------------              ---% per annum---
A. PRODUCTION
Natural Rubber             1,902     2,356     2,734      3,094    3,492         4,800       5,750          4.6      3.7
Synthetic Rubber           1,020     3,043     3,968      4,960    5,927         8,400        n.a.          5.1       --
Total                   2,922     5,399     6,702      8,054    9,419        13,200        n.a.          4.9       --
B. NET IMPORTS OF CENTRALLY
PIMNNED COUNTRIS
Natural Rubber               178       545       680        648      759           750         800           --      1.3
Synthetic Rubber               2        20        ---        23      ---           ---                                --
Total                     180       565       680        671      759           750         800           --      1.3
C. AVAILABLE SUPPLY
Natural Rubber /2          1,724     1,939     2,125      2,483    2,800         4,100       4,950          5.6      3.8
Synthetic Rubber           1,020     3,043     3,968      4,960    5,927         8,400        n.a.          5.1       --
Total                  2,744      4,982     6,093      7,443    8,727       12,500         n.a.          5.3       --
D   CONSUMPTION
Natural Rubber            1,701      1,887     2,102      2,417    2,700        4,000        4,800          5.8      3.7
Synthetio Rubber             994     2,992     4,025      4,880    5,825         8,300      11,700          5.2      7c1
Total                  2,695      4,879     6,127      7,297    8,525       12,300       16,500          5.4      6.o
E.  SHARE OF NATURAL IN
WOPLD CONStMPTION (%)         63.1      38.7       34.3      33.1     31.7          32.5        29.1
/1 Excluding centrally planned countries.
7! --Aijusted for government stockpile deliveries.
75 Preliminary.
Source: International Rubber Study Group and Economic Analysis and Projections Department.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Project and Program Life
1.        Estate activities including clearing, planting and exploitation,
are assumed to be 38 years for the 5,800 ha project and 42 years for the
full 15,000 ha program. Tapping is assumed to start in the sixth year after
planting and to continue for 34 years.
Casts
2.        Costs include both investment and operating costs, but exclude
price contingencies, taxes and dutiés. The current foreign exchange rate
of CFAF 225 = US$1.00 is used.
3.        Full costs of roads and trails, hospital schools and social fac-
ilities have been charged to the project since the area is almost uninhabi-
tated. Full costs of housing also have been charged to the project since
the costs of corresponding facilities in recruitment areas would be negli-
gible.
4.        Costs of agronomical studies and for the regional development plan,
which might benefit a series of later projects, have been excluded.
5.        Land transferred to HEVECAM by Government is assumed to have no
economic value.
6.        For calculating the rate of return of the project, under the assump-
tion that a decision to restrict the estate to 5,800 ha is taken in the 4th
or 5th year (see paras 7.03-7.04 of main text), additional assumptions are as
follows:
(i) area cleared during PY5 would be 800 ha, thus
bringing total area cleared to 5,800 ha, about
40% less than under the 15,000 ha program;
(ii) after PY 4, annual costs of equipment are estimated
at 40% of the costs required for the full program;
(iii)  beginning PY 5, infrastructure costs, including buildings
to house overhead services, social buildings and staff
housing, have been assumed to be about 60% of the amounts
under the full program, excluding costs of heavy
equipment operation;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iv)  full costs of the first two phases of factory build-
ing and equipping are kept, while that of the remain-
ing two phases are excluded, in line with the reduced
output to be processed under the 5,800 ha project as
compared to the 15,000 ha program;
(v)  fixed expenditures are estimated to remain constant
after PY 4.
Benefits
6.        Yields:  assumptions and levels are detailed in paragraph 6.01.
8.        Price:  A price rounded to CFAF 164/kg, including an export duty
of 4.90% of the FOB price for all rubber exports, is used (see Table 1,
this Annex).
9.        Under the 5,800 ha assumption, equipment is assumed to be disposed
of at PY 5 and the corresponding amount has been entered into the benefits
that year. Salvage value is estimated as follows: equipment used in PY 1,
10% of original costs; in PY 2, 25%; in PY 3, 50%; and in PY 4, 75%.
Rate cf Return and Sensitivity Analysis
10.       The project'8 economic rate of return is 10.15% (under the assump-
tion of para 5) and the program's 13.55%. The effect on the rates of return
of increasing and reducing costs and benefits is:
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Project              Program
Costs plus 10%                    9.0                   12.4
Costs plus 15%                    8.4                   11.8
Costs plus 25%                    7.2                   10.9
Benefits plus 15%                12.0                   15.2
Benefits plus 25%                13.0                   16.2
Benefits minus 25%                6.2                   10.0
Costs plus 10% and
Benefits minus 10%              7.4                   11.0
Costs plus 20% and
Benefits minus 20%              4.4                    8.2



Ânnex 8
Table 1
CANERON
NIETE RUBEER E3STTE PROJECT
Price Structure ana Marketing Margins foi One Ton of Rubber (AversKe Quality)
(CFA!)
OIF price/ton                                             185,022
Frieght                                                    15,000
Insurance (0.25 o/o of CIF x 110 o/o)                         509
Trading (1.00 o/o of CIF)                                   1,850
iOB Value                                                 167,663
Harbour and Randling Charges                                l,l0O
Transport to Harbour                                        1,&00
164,763
Rport Duty (4.90 o/o of FOB)                                8,215
tx-Factorw Value                                          156,548



p.393230330  I  2  3    4      S      0      7      3       9    12    22        10~-L    13       14        5       16       17       19       19       20       2        22      2        3'5 6                      2        20       28                52 -    30     33        34       35        3       7        50       9                         42
57 00    i14    362 57    423   -6          707    291   252   192         042      I10       60        '0l           
7poo.13~~~~~~~~~~...  ~ ~               ~                1      21    58   120       203      290       60      46       521      522      542      99        74      79       0             el 4     653       -7       -8      el7    65          0        09       I20    706    694        62       647      59      523      40l2e0                       Il
13I13l3    0    474   308   310   423   466    512    314   30   322                 351      393      440      501      529      540      342      559      574       l00    000 05         63       05         -7      601      -6      696      -0        009      710      06      94      64       647       59      519      40       23        8        7'
14324002            140    33    59    43        77      50    58   166         24       27       .2      150       37       7        40       70       54        0      70    74       Il       69        72       60      I1       I5       59        53       40      47      20       5        30        30l    50        30 . 
310   ¶~~~*34  ~ ~         50    45  140    I71   107    63    70          67      50    3       67       56      139      îoo      loi       70        7       20       21       I'       os      t'    Iî      'il       o il               os il            43       40         2~    os         0      34       50       I.        12
000336.0*6  -  -                                      ~~~~           ~~~~~107  108    102              139               104
Op0*30605'3  -  -                                      2      13    32    27       143      225      509      404      450,      551      596     650      665      540     60    665    465        081       606      609    469       666      66f        57      62      65       2       630      51        50       4        6       29       60        6
Iol1   044    30         25        221      -4      434       396      411       -6      636      365      100     67   109    385        660       676      -4       609      65       664      65       6440    0        2        610      101      541    45         63      23        18        68
9    F6232   ooo,,26*îei  62 101   170   266   24    254   26          I77    274   266   077         24        98      01.      312      32       325      356      572      556      56      MI4   MI9    33         34        36       546    944       54         4         6      M.1    346       46      34-      323       301    26I       201      1l0       94       30
413    6604960043         ~29    M4    M       41    39    40       4       4       4     3      35       II       Il       5491I
70136    43   394 700   62   214    32 a.             1,00       7    3 1337   l,1            16 1l41           1,499    3.07     5,0 1,5     60ifi    1,645    5,64  1,405   2.784 1,747  1.02      171       1,0751 50    3,70l         209      1,1706    1,613 ,761  I1,40    3,716    1,615    5,663   1,27                  1.04       717       440      162
69764 5055            336   62      19   313    95,   860    061,140          7      M364    904    .166    1,22     1.403    1,574    177 1.653   3,64   2,700            1,3      1,767  1,799, 1,034   2.80    523         2,294l   0,476  1,232    1,385    1,665    1.053    1,04  407    1,355    1,302    1J703    1,35    1,-4    1,.4              755      47,       191
88938953~~~                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~13    101   265   632   1,473   1.605    2,526   5,302    4,51    4.502 4,0  1,20  5,496    5.161  3,680 5,633  3,834       ,6                1 3,566 5450  ,564040   5,45 3,30   3.574   3,3  34  027    5,40      4.90      473      4.429  5,3       I,033    0,9       1,370      53



20n.0                          ~~~     ~~~ ~~30  nil  174  308    247      123     103       '7       73      33        47        12
Ot2n800,,                                                                      O~~~~          ~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~~~ 23  l-    220  263  lu0  79  203  209  213  192      232      _233       240      226       259      -291       001       ii        347       273       -0        220       276        268       238       238       238       230      60010
3i0to6~~~~~~O ~37                   212      174      305     247      125      103     101       96      lm4       07       195       M6         20       208       20g        213      0I2       232       235       240   00 21     6       25    00M      261       263       247       Z73       20        330       270       206        278       238       238       23I      24422
13    toî...ît                     ~~~~ ~~164  060   025      244       13       27      la       31       22      14        78        34        33        33        63        36        32        23        28        22        32      M3         3         16       28        20         30       1M         3         21        21        13        29         i6-l                             
001. o060n282o- n,tO,,                             30      44      141      173     177       34       41       37       22      19        41        33             60   60        9         42        32        2 2       12 120i21                              0  i      6         6         6                   9          o        O          o        14        26         '       -                       
2S. ..21 t9i 2                                                                                                 13      36       180       lm        168       196       218       238      234        .262      f   268       268 24        I66       266       260       233       233       239       233       240       234       241       237       232        232       232       303      073       loi
V.  1302 npîdOoo..m                           62     loi      278      005      01      2,2    342        042     042      240       042       242       242       242       242       242       242       240       042      242       242      242       242       240       32        740       242       242       042       248       242        242       242       420       240       036      033       l04
22.  I00  203                                             31       31      -31
720.642830012e                                     30       34      3        41      34        32      32       34       3       2         24        24
lo.-                                 325      238     719      906      643     436      436      338      411    456        743       692       733       737       760       767       760       7i3       782       177       784     733       93          6  7     9011     793       66        207       82i        ma        782       7t2       779       785       730       653      342        896
P92004ooo1 g.oyîZ)                         10       32       36      43       80       23      22       20       20      23         33       33        37        37        38        38        46        77        39        39        38      38        42         39       43        40         40       42        42         20        39        38        39        36        37        33       20        10
206  (6s                                        M4I      623      182      931     677      408     458      383      430     476       060        003      702       774        2l       803       832       7IO       821       026       823      783      840       023       633       633        "Ô6      M4.       2           43       822       620       822       .24       768       68        61       332
8.                                                  -        -       - '               306     -        -         6       I00     395       652    8,0112    1,373    1,623    1,704    0,950    2,006    2,240    2,186    2,228    2,288   2.07.20,241    2,230    0,093    3063    3.307    0.337    0.626    207.07                         8,903    2.843    1.02    1,302I    1,.6           2,003   0,400        920



IBRD 11485
9°55'  oo,3\10°00'  ;îo<,    z   \   \    10°05'1   >   l                     10°10' /             V                          MARCH  197
UNITED REPUBLICOF CAMEROON                        1                 _                      10005
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT CONCESSION
NIETE RUBdER ESTATE PHOJECT AREA BOUNDARY                                                                  2°50'
2°50'                       POPULATION, 100 INHABITANTS                       \                                       ,,z
PROPOSED SITE FOR CENTER AND FACTORY                                                                            J
TEMPORARY ESTATE CENTER                                                                                                               dja
PROPOSED MAIN ROADS
........... TEMPORARY ACCESS ROAD
EXISTING MAIN ROAD
EXISTING MOTORABLE TRACKS
EXISTING FOOTPATHS
)    EXISTING BRIDGE
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                            2
-   .     ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES245
-2045.                                          10 K
SCALE APPROXIMATE
E3   =~~~~~~~cb
2240
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii
-,   <. ~      .,y              -P
RAF 0IJSSAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10p6
bodo,*.:Ro~~o. o, ~~hi, ,,op do R0 






M  A L I
.       N I G E R               C H A D                                                                           'y I  , ZAEc*AD                 A
E                                         >~~~~~~hd SUDAN
c,               N         /1 G E RU 1 A                                                                                                                       S
CAMER(  I                                       12'                                                           J
sowAo22A45---_4                                                                     ou;r                                                      C  H  A  D
VOLIAstwc 9a.N                                       Z A 1 R E
NIGT RIBB     E                            PROJECT
z  *L     TI, T                       E RANSPORTATION  AND  PROJECT  AREA
272  lnh.b,tnts p., sq- rk,lo.mete ,8                                                                       4rtW6
5001 -100         rur   c   e                                                                          /  
100.1-150    1«                                                           \ A \ \\\  
NNi.t. Rubbe EsIt Project acsin                                                                               »°dt\i
E.  Eitno Rubber ond Oit PIl, EZtat1
CAM         el Roods                                                                                \
E      900-Is0hye0      n illmtr.\<3
UNITEOREP          RBI(,cds    AMRO
2700 1.2nhabtats ,e  qae îoee
- Division Budre  \\\\X`\i 
20- 0   L~ihbîai per
Â_ NiphamisRubber EsSa Ene brajo Coness ;ion 
E îein  Rabbe a- -1 Palm47 E`Saies                                                                         3 
N                                   r G  E R  a A- 
12.6   bû<                                                               
Raii IreAilsvNF  /1>                                            9                       /  <)  \\\                  C E N T R A L
*/> fou-bf R gX tiveraF  R    C  A   N
f^--->        f--lniraioa  Beundares                                  i       û                                                        S    d 
300j0~~~~~            13.1                   ari\5__
RIG AOL                                                                                                     N  GO
A         llN= T` A\                          / /                                           '23/ C> /                                                        \
(9I.A                    E                     UIAG"NEA                                )                          C   |   N   GJ  -   0I~






CAMEROON
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Hevecam Plantation Structure and Management Set Up
Board of Directors
|Director General
[YAdministrative                          Technical       |              Deputy Director                       Industrial                          Medical
Man. ager                           Manager                        Field MEMnager                        Manager                             Officer
I   4 Sector Chiefs
Field Office-
Account ng                         Agronomy                                                              Garage                            Doctor(s)
16 Divisions
4 per Sector
BuyI ng  Iffi                      Technology                                                             Tractors                       Head Sick Bay
Buying Officer                     Technology                                                               nerAtdas
cer                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Center            Attendants
Sales                          Civil Works                                                          Workshops
Personnel                        Topography                                                          Constructions
Worid Bank-9584



