CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 574 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nitd Rubber Estate Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 574 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nitd Rubber Estate Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from    the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Econoinique (hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), an agency of the
Republic of France, a loan (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an
aggregate principal amount of twenty million French francs (FF20,000,000) to
assist in financing sych Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
between Caisse Centrale and the Borrower (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale
Loan Agreement);
(C)   The Project with the exception of its Part G will be carried out by
Socidtd H6v&a-Cameroun (hereinafter called HEVECAM) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
HEVECAM a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided, and
will also make available to HEVECAM the proceeds of the Caisse Centrale Loan;
and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and HEVECAM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever us.ed in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "HEVECAM"     means   Socidtd  Hv&i-Cameroun,   a  societ6  de
dfveloppement of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law
No. 68/LF/9 of June 11, 1968, Decree No. 75/284 bis of April 30, 1975, and
Decree No. 75/346 of May 23, 1975;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and HEVECAM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and HEVECAM pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Financing Agreement;
(d)   "Management Services and Technical Assistance Contract" means any
agreement concluded between HEVECAM and another party or parties providing
for management services and technical assistance on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the A ssociation and includes the Convention  dated May  23,
1975 between HEVECAM on the one hand and on the other hand the Socite
Africaine Forestidre et Agricole-Cameroun (hereinafter called SAFACAM), a
company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower with its sige
social at Yaounde;
(e)   "Francs CFA" and "CFAF" mean francs in the currency of the
Borrower; and
(f)   "French francs" and "FF" mean francs in the currency of the Republic
of France.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various Currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from     time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges sh'all be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1985 and ending April 1, 2025, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any part of its indebtedness
under the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall simultaneously repay
a proportionate amount of the Credit then outstanding. All the provisions of the
General Conditions relating to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any repayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part G of the Project, and
shall cause HEVECAM to carry out Parts A through F of the Project, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause HEVECAM
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Project Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HEVECAM to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Caisse Centrale Loan required for the execution of Parts A through F
of the Project available to HEVECAM under a Project Financing Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and HEVECAM on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights tinder the Project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   In order to ensure that adequate working capital shall be available
to HEVECAM, the Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to enable
HEVECAM to dispose at all times of a cash and bank balance, including overdraft
facilities guaranteed by the Borrower, to cover HEVECAM's expenditures during
the four-month period following, but in any event not less than CFAF300,000,000.
(f)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall provide HEVECAM, or cause
HEVECAM to be provided, with the funds, services and other resources necessary
to ensure that the plantings included in Part A of the Project are brought into,
and maintained in, production and adequate processing facilities are installed
therefor.


﻿7
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make or cause to be made available to
HEVECAM, promptly as needed, all facilities and title to and rights in respect
of land required for the carrying out and operation of the Project, free from all
restrictions, encumbrances or liabilities on the use thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to provide the schools included in the Project with (i) qualified teachers
in such numbers as shall be necessary for their efficient operation, and (ii) the
funds necessary for the efficient operation and maintenance of the said schools
and for the payment of salaries to the said teachers.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1976
or such other later date as shall be agreed with the Association, take all action
necessary to improve the roads and bridges between Douala and Kribi to allow
year-round traffic between the said cities, and (ii) grant permission for the use
of the bridge over the Sanaga River by heavy trucks.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare, in consultation with the Association, the master plan for the
development of the Kribi area included in Part G of the Project; and
(b)   (i)   carry out a study of the transportation and other infrastructure
long-term needs for the development of the Kribi area, in particular of the roles
to be played by its harbors, inter alia, the Douala and Kribi harbors, and (ii) furnish
to the Association, not later than December 31, 1978 or such other later date
as shall be agreed with the Association, the recommendations made by the said
study for an exchange of views thereon.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that all goods imported by
HEVECAM for the Project will be exempt from all import duties levied by the
Borrower including, without limitation, the Common External Tariff, Customs
Import Duties, Turnover Tax and Complementary Tax.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   HEVECAM     shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of HEVECAM under the Project Agreement.


﻿8
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that HEVECAM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or Project Financing Agreement.
(c)   Decree No. 75/284 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the
Association.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of HEVECAM or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   The Management Service and Technical Assistance Contract shall have
been in any material respect terminated, amended, suspended, waived or designed
without the prior approval of the Association.
(f)   (i)        Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Caisse Centrale Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Caisse Centrale
Loan Agreement or
(B)   The raisse Centrale Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A)   suspension, cancellation, termination  or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of HEVECAM under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿9
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f)(i)B of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
HEVECAM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and HEVECAM, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the Management Service and Technical Assistance Contract referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement has been entered into;
(d)   the Borrower has made available to HEVECAM an initial contribution
to HEVECAM's equity in the amount of CFAF300 million and has furnished to
the Association a schedule, satisfactory to the Association, for the payment of
the remainder of its contribution to HEVECAM's equity; and
(e)   the conditions precedent, if any, to initial disbursements under the
Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, HEVECAM, and is legally binding upon
HEVECAM in accordance with its terms; and


﻿10
(b)   that the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and HEVECAM,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HEVECAM, respectively,
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date December 1, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of
paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre de l'Econonie et du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et du Plan
Yaound6
Cameroon
Cable address:                               Telex:
MINEP                                        8268 KN
Yaound6, Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s / F. X. Tchoungui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and                4,800,000          58%
plantations
(2)  Equipment and                  2,200,000          58%
materials
(3)  Administration                 2,500,000          58%
(4)  Food crop develop-               300,000          58%
ment
(5)  Technical assis-                 580,000          58%
tance
(6)  Project related                  120,000          58%
studies
(7)  Master Plan                      700,000          58%
(8)  Unallocated                    4,800,000
TOTAL        16,000,000


﻿13
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account
of expenditures incurred after January 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $300,000.
4.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
*        Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the development of a rubber estate during
the years 1975 through 1980 located north of the Ni6t6 River in the Kribi area
of the Borrower's Ocean Department. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A      The clearing of about 5,800 hectares and planting high-yielding rubber
thereon, the preparation of about 1,700 hectares for planting thereon
in 1981, and the maintenance of plantings during the development
period of the Project.
Part B      The conducting of field trials of promising planting material and
agro.omic research, if required.
Part C      The construction of housing, health, education and social facilities for
about 3,000 families living on the rubber estate, and the building of
service roads for the rubber estate.
Part D      The establishment of a commissariat on the rubber estate to provide
food supplies and to supervise trials with foodcrops.
Part E      The preparation of a follow-up project, including the continuation of
the pedological and topographical prospection.
Part F      The preparation of a program   for training and technical assistance.
Part G      The preparation of a master plan for the Kribi area which emphasizes
the production of perennial crops.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


