CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 574 CM
Project Agreement
(Ni6t6 Rubber Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE HEVEA - CAMEROUN (HEVECAM)
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
HEVEA - CAMEROUN (HEVECAM) (hereinafter called HEVECAM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that HEVECAM agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and HEVECAM, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided
for Linder the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to HEVECAM
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS HEVECAM, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. HEVECAM shall carry out the Project, with the exception
of Part G thereof, described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement


﻿4
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural, industrial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist HEVECAM in the execution and operation
of the Project, HEVECAM shall employ, under a Management Services and
Technical Assistance Contract satisfactory to the Association, management and
technical assistance consultants whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association, and shall consult with the Association sufficiently
in advance of terminating, modifying or amending the said contract so as to afford
the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) HEVECAM       undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by HEVECAM     to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, HEVECAM shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) HEVECAM shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) HEVECAM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
(c)   HEVECAM shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
HEVECAM and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. HEVECAM shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Project Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
HEVECAM shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) HEVECAM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   HEVECAM shall promptly inform     the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by HEVECAM
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. HEVECAM shall furnish from time to time to the Association
for its review the training program  included in Part F of the Project and shall
revise the said program in consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE II
Management and Operations of HEVECAM
Section 3.01. (a) HEVECAM shall at all times carry on its operations, manage
its affairs, plan the future development of its business and undertaking, and maintain
its financial position all in accordance with appropriate agricultural, financial and
administrative practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
(b)   Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section,
HEVECAM     shall at all times employ a Directeur G'neral and shall employ, as
and when needed for the purposes of the Project, and thereafter maintain a
Technical Manager, an Administrative Manager and an Industrial Manager whose
qualifications, experience and tern-is and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   HEVECAM     shall operate and maintain its plantation, equipment,
properties and facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all
in accordance with appropriate agricultural and management practices.


﻿6
Section 3.02. HEVECAM shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. HEVECAM shall not, without the consent of the Association,
sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which
shall be required for the efficient carrying out of its business and undertaking,
including the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.04. HEVECAM shall at all times take all steps necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, including the Project,
and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary
to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to acquire,
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights, as may be
necessary or useful for the execution and operation of the Project and the conduct
of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, HEVECAM
shall obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of
the Credit and the Caisse Centrale loan free and clear of all liens.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. HEVECAM shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. HEVECAM shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of HEVECAM and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 4.03. HEVECAM shall consult with the Association on proposals
for its marketing arrangements before the adoption of such proposals by
HEVECAM.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of HEVECAM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify HEVECAM     of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For HEVECAM:
Soci6t6 H6v6a - Cameroun (HEVECAM)
B.P. 174
Kribi, Cameroon
Cable address:
HEVECAM
Kribi, Cameroon
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of HEVECAM may be taken or executed by its Prsident di Conseil
d'Administration or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. HEVECAM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of HEVECAM, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by HEVECAM pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Westem Africa
SOCIETE HEVEA - CAMEROUN (HEVECAM)
By /s / F. X. Tchoungui
Authorized Represen tatih'e


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Parts C and D of the Project shall be
prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    (a)   Land clearing, building of service roads and construction of housing
and other facilities shall either be carried out by HEVECAM through force account
or by contractor hand labor procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures.
(b)   Any other contract not exceeding $60,000 equivalent shall be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to HEVECAM of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Cameroon and in countries which are a party to
Union Donanire des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (hereinafter called UDEAC) may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿11
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following four groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Cameroon if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of HEVECAM
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Cameroon equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Cameroon.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country (other
than Cameroon) which is a party to UDEAC and entitled to
preferential tariffs thereunder.
(4)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to
the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C or
group D bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid
in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(e)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d) above,
a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding


﻿12
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for
the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the difference between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in such group
D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If
the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for
purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from group D, as determined under
paragraph (c) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1. With respect to any contract for civil works inluded under Category (1) of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, except
those referred to in Part A.3 hereof, HEVECAM may grant a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by HEVECAM, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. HEVECAM shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
0


﻿13
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by HEVECAM to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and HEVECAM shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, HEVECAM shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
*        before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, HEVECAM shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
HEVECAM and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association s concurrence, materially differ from  those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, HEVECAM shaii furnish to


﻿14
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform HEVECAM and state the reasons for such
determination.


