Docurnctv of
The %Worid Baî:k`
F'OR OFI'ICIAL '.'SE C>^>LY            FILE   COPY
Repait No. 2426-MOR
STAFT APrRISAL REPORT OF THE
FO. R1 A1iGRI'ULTtJRlL CREDIT PROJECT
PCINGDOM OF MGROCCO
Apr.i 30, 1979
Proj ecct3 Department
Europe, Middle East anld North .4frica
Agricuclture II
r 
This document has a restricted distribution .un'd may be used by recipients :nily in the performance of
!their official duties, Its eonttents may not othervise  * disclosed withoei  World Bank authorizaticn.



CURRENCY EQU'IVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1    DH4.0
DHl1 = 0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                     -         0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                           -         39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                      -         0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                        -         2.47 acres (ac)
1 square meter (m2)                   -         10.76 sqaure feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                    -         35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
I liter (1)                           -         0.264 US gallon (gai)
1 hectoliter (hl)                     -         26.4 US gallons (gal)
i kilogram (kg)                       -         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  -         2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                                 -         14.666 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilometer per hour (km/h)           -         0.6 mile per hour (mph)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVI]ATIONS
CLCA        -  Local Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Locale de Crédit
Agricole)
CNCA        -  National Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Nationale
de Crédit Agricole)
CRCA        -  Regional Agricultural Credit Bank (Caisse Régionale
de Crédit Agricole)
FERTIMA     -  Government Fertil:izer Company (Société Marocaine des
Fertilisants)
IFAD        -  International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fonds
International pour le Développement Agricole)
KFW         - Kreditanstalt f ir Wiederaufbau
MARA        -  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (Ministère
de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire)
OCP         -  Cherifien Phosphate Board (Office Chérifien des Phosphates)
ONICL       -  Grain and Pulses Marketing Agency (Office National
Interprofessionnel des Céréales et Légumineuses)
ONT         -  National Transportation Office (Office National  de
Transport)
OCE         -  Office for Agricultural Marketing and Exports (Office de
Commercialisation et d'Exportation)
ODI         -  Office for Industrial Development (Office de Développement
Industriel)
SCAM        -  Moroccan Agricultural Cooperative Society (Société de
Coopérative Agricole Marocaine)
SONACOS     -  National Seeds Distribution Company (Société
Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences)
This document has a restricted distribution and imay be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................                 1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..............................                 1
A.   Place of Agriculture in the Economy ....         .........        1
B.   Land   Use   ........................................            2
C.   Agricultural Performance and the Transitional
Plan for 1978-1980 ..............................                2
D.   Agricultural Sector Issues, Implications for
Agricultural Credit, and the Bank's Role ........                4
E.   Performance under Previous Projects ....         .........       9
IlI.   THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT, THE CAISSE NATIONAL
DE CREDIT AGRICOLE, AND ANALYSIS OF ISSUES           ...........     10
A.   Credit Sources and Policy in Morocco ....         ........      10
B.   CNCA:  Background, Organization, and Personnel ..               10
C.   Lending Policies and Procedures ....          .............     il
D.   Sources and Uses of Funds .......................               14
E.   Financial Position ..............................               15
F.   Conclusion ......................................               15
IV.   PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PROJECTS .............................................               16
A.   First Agricultural Credit Project ....         ...........      16
B.   Second Agricultural Credit Project ....         ..........      17
C.   Third Agricultural Credit Project ....         ...........      17
D.   Performance Evaluation of the Second and Third
Credit Projects .................................               18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November 1978
consisting of Mr. K. Cleaver (Bank), and Messrs. I. Bergeron, J. Marinet,
H. Vieilhezcaze, and G. Hughes (consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                      Page No.
V.    THE PROJECT ..........................................                     19
A.    Objectives  ......................................                   19
B.    Description .....................................                   20
C.    Cost Estimates  ..................................                  21
D.    Financing  .......................................                  22
E.    Procurement  .....................................                  24
F.   Disbursement  ....................................                   24
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...............................                    25
A.    Project Execution and CNCA Staffing  ....           .........       25
B.   Lending Policies and Procedures  for Agricultural
Loans ...........................................                   25
C.    Agro-Industry Component  .........................                  27
D.    Special Financial Covenants .....................                   29
E.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ....            ........       29
F.   Accounts and Audit ..............................                    30
VII.    PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND JUSTIFICATION    ......                  30
A.    Production Generated by Project  ....            .............      30
B.    Marketing and Prices of Agricultural Products ...                   32
C.    Marketing and Prices for Agricultural Inputs   ....                 35
D.    The Agro-Industry Component .....................                   36
E.   Economic Analysis ...............................                    37
F.   Project Impact on the Target Group and Income
Distribution ....................................                   38
G.    Project Risks ...................................                   41
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....              ...........       42
ANNEXES
1.   Number of Objects Financed by CNCA Loans
2.    CNCA Medium Term Loan Disbursements, Project Cost, and Project Financing
3.    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File



KINGDOM 0F MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Morocco and the National Agricultural Credit Bank
(CNCA) 1/ have requested a Bank loan lto help finance a Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project directed to financing farm investment and small scale agro-
industry. The Project follows three successful Bank agricultural credit proj-
ects implemented by CNCA (Chapter IV). The Project would finance the same
type of farm investments as under the Third Agricultural Credit Project, with
the addition of an agro-industry component. The large size of the Project
(US$737.2 million total cost over three years) reflects the fact that all
CNCA medium- and long-term credit destined to economically viable invest-
ment categories has been included. CNCA is the only institutional source of
medium- and long-term credit for agriculture in Morocco; helping to finance
an estimated 60% of all farm investment. For this reason, this appraisal
report emphasizes agricultural sector issues and the role of credit in the
sector.
1.02      The Project was identified by CNCA with the assistance of Bank
missions supervising the Third Agricultural Credit Project in November 1977
and July 1978. A Bank mission assisted in project preparation during Julv
1978, issuing a Project Brief in August 1978. CNCA submitted a project
preparation report responding to terms of reference agreed to during the Bank
July 1978 preparation mission.  The preparation report forms the basis of
the appraisal report.  The appraisal mission also undertook an agricultural
sector analysis, the results of which will be discussed with Government.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 2/
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01      Morocco's population is estimated at 18 million (1977) of which
about 60% live in rural areas. Population growth has averaged 2.9% p.a.;
_/   Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole.
2/   Detailed analysis of agriculture sector performance and issues is being
circulated separately in "Memorandum on Morocco's Agricultural Sector;
Identification of Issues and Bank Strategy".



- 2 -
4.8% in the urban sector, 1.8% in the rural sector, the difference being due
to rural-urban migration. Agriculture contributed about 14% of GDP in 1977,
down from an average of 22% during 1967 to 1970. About 40% of the labcr force
is employed in agriculture compared to 60% in 1971. Agricultural exports
accounted for 35% of total exports in 1977 (falling from about 60% of total
exports prior to 1975). The Moroccan economy can be characterized as pre-
dominantly market oriented with state intervention in agriculture occuring
through price and credit policy, taxes, import controls, Government investment
in infrastructure, Government agricultural services, and Government investment
in public farming enterprises and agro-industry. The source of medium- and
long-term credit to agriculture is a publicly owned semi-autonomous bank
(Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole, CNCA). CNCA would be the borrower under
the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project.
B. Land Use
2.02      Morocco has a total land area of 50 million ha of which 7.4 million
ha have soils and moisture suitable for cropping, and 20 million ha are in
semi-arid or mountain regions suitable only for grazing. Permanent irriga-
tion covered 690,000 ha in 1977. About 5.8 million ha of the 7.4 million ha
of agricultural land are cultivated each year; the remainder is left fallow.
About 4.5 million ha are planted under cereals, 500,000 ha under pulses,
400,000 ha under fruit trees, 100,000 ha under vegetables, 60,000 ha under
sugar beet, and the remainder under oilseeds, cotton, and forage crops. Live-
stock is primarily extensive, based on grazing of pasture land. Intensive
livestock production based on cultivated forage crops, barley, or industrial
crop residues, is rapidly becoming important in irrigated and high rainfall
areas. Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by traditional
agricultural practices, and limited use of fertilizers, plant protection, high
yielding seeds and farm machinery. As a result, crop yields and livestock
productivity are generally low.
C. Agricultural Performance and the Transitional Plan for 1978-1980
2.03      Agricultural Performance.  Over the last 15 years, agricultural
output (in constant prices) grew at an average rate of 2.4% per annum.
Agricultural output fluctuates annually mainly because of variations in
climatic conditions (for example, it increased by 10.5% in 1976 and declined
by 13.4% in 1977). Domestic agricultural production has not kept up with the
increased demand caused by urbanization, and by income and population growth.
The result has been a 21% p.a. average increase in food imports from 1970 to
1977 (in current prices), 9.6% p.a. in quantity terms. The value of Moroccan
agricultural exports expanded at 6% p.a. during the same period, with the
quantity of agricultural exports declining at 1.2% p.a. The expansion of
agricultural imports, along with some switching of exportables to domestic



- 3 -
consumption, has permitted maintenance of a generally adequate food supply and
nutritional level. However, there are poverty pockets containing significant
numbers of people with nutritional deficiencies (para 2.11).
2.04      Performance has varied between agricultural products.  In those
cases where modern farming techniques and inputs could be introduced rapidly
and where prices permitted net income per ha and per day of family labor
to be attractive, progress has been rapid. Examples are sugar beet and sugar
cane production which have been introduced in modern irrigation perimeters
with the assistance of extension agents, provision of subsidized irrigation
water, and guaranteed markets defined in contracts between producers and pro-
cessors. Sugar beet production grew by 13% per annum from 1967/69 to 1976-78.
Similarly, milk production increased from 500,000 tons in 1971 to 650,000 tons
in 1977 (4.3% p.a.) due to Government introduction of imported high yield
pure-bred cows from Europe, construction by Government of milk collection
centers around which milk producer cooperatives have been created, promotion
of irrigated forage production, provision of animal health services, and sub-
sidization of milk prices paid to producers. Production of vegetables has
grown at 8% per annum largely due to the additional area put under irrigation.
Government efforts to increase production of crops which were not accompanied
by successful efforts to alter farming practices (cereals and pulses), or when
Government price policy does not permit farmers to obtain sufficient income
(oilseeds, cotton, maize), have limited or no success. Cereal yields in-
creased 1.2 quintals/ha in 18 years (with considerable annual variation).
Production of pulses, olives and fruiLt show no long run improvement, largely
as the result of stagnation of farm technology used in production, lack of
investment, and lack of Government promotion.
2.05      The "Interim" Plan, 1978-1980.  Under Morocco's Three Year Interim
Plan (1978-1980), agriculture would receive 18% of planned investment, as it
did under the Third Plan (1973-1977). Total Government investment in agricul-
ture for 1978-1980 is tentatively foreseen to equal about US$963 million
equivalent, out of total investment of US$5,347 million equivalent. Another
US$300 million equivalent in agricultural credit would be lent by CNCA to
finance farm investment during the plan period.
2.06      The Interim Plan is a status quo Plan, having the same distribution
of Government investment between categories as under the Third Plan. About
57% of Government agricultural investment will go to irrigation projects,
while 16% goes to the extension service and to the agricultural components of
rural development projects. About 6% would go to livestock development, 5.6%
to forestry and soil conservation, and the remainder to agro-economic studies,
the cadastral survey, research, rural water supply, and agricultural educa-
tion. A major effort is now underway to organize farmers into service coop-
eratives, improve input supply organization and infrastructure, and create
basic infrastructure such as milk co]lecting centers, grain storage facili-
ties, and animal health stations.
2.07      If implemented, the Interim Plan would accelerate agricultural
growth; particularly of milk, meat, sugar, vegetables, and other industrial



- 4 -
crops dependent on irrigation. Production of olives would be promoted to
substitute for imported vegetable oils. Except for olives, these products
are the same which benefitted under previous plans.
D. Agricultural Sector Issues, Implications for Agricultural
Credit, and the Bank's Role
2.08       Public Financial Situation and Emphasis on Irrigation.  Eighty-five
percent of the rural population is dependent on rainfed agriculture, and Gov-
ernment studies indicate that improvements in farming practices alone could
increase rainfed agricultural production dramatically. The Interim Plan for
the first time recognizes the need to shift more Government resources to rain-
fed production, but due to the tight public finance situation constraining
an expansion of the agricultural budget, and the need to complete ongoing
irrigation projects into which considerable costs have been sunk, the invest-
ment and operating budgets give priority to irrigation, although no new
schemes would begin during the Plan period. The Bank strategy is now to
de-emphasize lending to large scale irrigation in Morocco; orienting projects
to rural development, small scale farm investment financed through credit,
poverty oriented projects, and foreign exchange generating export-oriented
projects. Examples are the recent Meknes and Fes-Karia-Tissa Agricultural
Development Projects and the Agricultural Credit Projects.
2.09      Exports.  The Government has neglected export growth, particularly
in agriculture (para 2.03). Agricultural exports are stagnating. A prelim-
inary recommendation of the Bank's Basic Economic Report is for Morocco to
undertake an export led growth strategy in which fruit and vegetable exports
will have an important role. The Vegetable Project appraised for possible
Bank financing in January 1979 is of crucial importance in this strategy.
2.10       Price Regulation and Subsidies.  The Government purchases hard wheat
and barley at an official support price, while the prices of soft wheat, most
industrial crops, and milk are fixed, as are the prices of electricity, petro-
leum products, water, transport and communication. This price intervention
is supplemented by controls on imports, foreign exchange transactions, and
interest rates. In addition, subsidies are provided to maintain low retail
prices for flour, bread, sugar, vegetable oil, and milk, as well as for
fertilizer and high yielding seeds. Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Farmers'
Associations receive special input subsidies (paras 7.03-7.16). Moroccan
price controls are administratively cumbersome and inefficient. There is
evidence that Government price and subsidy policy has kept some agricultural
prices artificially low discouraging production for the market, encouraged
imports of foodstuff by processing enterprises due to the unwillingness of
farmers to sell at low official prices, and unnecessarily subsidized milk
production. Evidence also exists that the urban poor obtain only a small
percentage of consumer food subsidies, and that nearly all agricultural input
subsidies go to wealthier farmers. Subsidies, therefore, have little impact
on alleviating the condition of the poor or of stimulating small farmers to
use modern inputs. These observations will be presented to Government during



discussions on the findings of the Agricultural Sector Memorandum.  Bank recom-
mendations will include the replacement of input subsidies with agricultural
credit, increased producer prices for some agricultural commodities, reduction
of consumer food subsidies, and more widespread use of contracts between
farmers and processing enterprises. I`here is considerable support for these
reforms within the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Development Plan strongly
recommends increasing producer prices.
2.11      Poverty.  About 45% of Moroccan farm families live at or below the
rural absolute poverty level of US$200 per capita. l/ Only 60% of the avail-
able rural labor (which totals 3,130,000 manyears) is fully employed. An
analysis of Moroccan statistics indicates a reduction in average per capita
income and an increase in underemploynent in rural areas. At the same time,
there is evidence that agricultural income in the irrigation command areas and
in the high rainfall areas has increased, as has that of the farm population
served by CNCA agricultural credit. l'here are, therefore, zones of poverty in
the rural sector, untouched by Government investment and agricultural credit,
in which living conditions are deteriorating. These zones are found predom-
inantly in mountain, forest and arid areas of Morocco. The population of
these areas is dependent on livestock.. These areas should be better identi-
fied; their economy and social structure analized, and programs developed to
improve the well being of the population. Such actions would probably include
development of pasture land combined with livestock production; projects
integrating reforestation, erosion control and agricultural improvements in
mountain and forest areas; and small-scale agro-industry. I'he Loukkos Project
which is foreseen for Bank financing, the Bank financed Fes-Karia-Tissa and
Meknes Agricultural Development Projects, and the Doukkala Irrigation Project
will assist a large number of farm families living below absolute poverty.
Forty percent of the loan recipients under the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project presently live at or below the rural absolute poverty level (para
7.20).  A much larger poverty oriented program is required, however, and this
necessitates greater Government commiltment of staff and financial resources.
A Bank agriculture project identification mission is scheduled which would
emphasize poverty oriented projects.
2.12      Land Tenure.  Distribution of private land in Morocco is unequal,
with about 75% of the farm families having 5 ha or less, owning 25% of the
agricultural land.  Farms are excessively fragmented with 1.9 million farms
divided into 11.6 million parcels.  The average size of a parcel is 0.64 ha,
too small for efficient farming. In addition, absentee landlords often hold
land for speculative purposes, and do not cultivate it. If cultivated, it is
often by tenant farmers who have no security of tenure and as a result have
no incentive to invest in or improve the land. These land tenure problems
have constrained expansion of agricultural credit use, and have caused the
distribution of agricultural credit to be unequal. Farmers without productive
potential do not apply for credit, and large farms obtain proportionally more
credit than small farms.  Morocco's Three Year Interim Plan proposes several
land reform measures which would alleviate these problems and, therefore,
merit Bank support. These measures include limitations on the partition of
1/   A separate urban absolute poverty level has been estimated at US$375 per
capita.



- 6 -
land below a minimum size, increased inducements to cultivate arable land,
land consolidation, creation of viable holdings on collectively owned land,
extension of the length of tenure by tenant farmers, and increased recovery of
Government investment costs through land betterment levies and user charges
(applicable part cularly in irrigated areas). These reforms, which require
Government legal action, are unlikely to be implemented in entirety because of
large farmer opposition.
2.13      Livestock Production, Erosion and Desertification.  Meat production
grew at 3.7% p.a. during the 1973-77 Plan period, while milk production grew
at 5.6% p.a. While cattle raising has been intensified causing increased milk
and meat yields per animal, overgrazing of pastureland by sheep and goats has
caused a decline in their yields. Overgrazing has also caused destruction of
vegetative cover, erosion, and desertification.  The Government's strategy is
to intensify not only cattle production, but sheep production. This will be
done through (a) herd development on farms able to grow adequate forage (which
will be primarily farms in high rainfall areas and irrigated areas; 50,000
additional ha of land will be irrigated in 1978-80, and about 10,000 ha p.a.
thereafter); (b) continued introduction of higher yielding breeds (the local
breed cow has a yield of about 450 liters of milk per year, compared to 3,500
liters for an imported pure-bred, and 2,000 liters for a cross-bred cow); (c)
improved technical and health services provided by Government; (d) provision
of technical assistance in constructing proper animal shelters; (e) increased
incentives to commercialize milk and meat by creating livestock cooperatives,
milk collection centers, milk processing plants, slaughterhouses, animal feed
factories; and (f) emphasis on cropping complementarities (such as use of
sugar beet pulp for livestock development in irrigated areas). Growth in
production of animal feed used in intensive livestock production, compared to
growth in meat and milk production, would be as follows:
Actual               Projected
(1970-73 to 1977)      (1973-77 to 1980)
---------------…% per annum------------
Sugar Beet Residues                       7.9                   10.0
Sugar Cane Residues                      75.0 /a                43.0
Forage Crops                             15.0                    8.0
Barley                                    2.1                    4.5
Pulses                                    0.0                    1.5
Compared to:  Meat                        3.7                    3.0
Milk                      5.6                     3.5
/a   1974/75 to 1977/78.
Source: MARA: Statistiques Agricoles.
MARA: "Le Developpement du Secteur Agricole," Plan for 1978-80.
The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project would provide the medium-term credit
for intensive livestock development based on farm cultivation of forage and



industrial crops which provide residues used for animal feed.  An expected
decline in draft animals caused by mechanization will also free animal feed
for use by livestock. Agricultural credit for livestock is an integral part
of Government's livestock development strategy. The Moroccan Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA) employs lending criteria which prohibit loans to landless
farmers (essentially nomadic herders) who depend on extensive grazing of
pasture lands and forests, which are subject to erosion and destruction by
animals.  Credit for livestock would be provided to medium and large farmers
only after CNCA assures itself by field appraisal that the farm will produce
adequate animal feed. Lending criteria for small farmer clients severely
restrict the number of livestock a client may obtain, as well as total herd
size. No loans are provided for acquisition of goats. CNCA livestock loans
would not develop more rapidly than feed availability. The Fourth Agricul-
tural Credit Project itself would cause an increase in forage production equal
to about 163 million feed units, or 16% of incremental forage needs by 1985
(para 7.01). Purchase of livestock for intensive production from producers
dependent on extensive forms of livestock may help reduce the problem of
desertification by reducing the number of animals on pasture land, while
contributing to the income of the poor nomadic herders.
2.14      Problems with Agricultural Extension and Research.  Agricultural
research is excessively theoretical, is not oriented toward increasing farmer
profits, and research priorities are developed in isolation from production
priorities. Results are seldom tested under farm conditions and are thus
frequently irrelevant to farmers. The extension service is encumbered with
administrative and regulatory tasks, employs agents with little practical
farming experience, and lacks organization, material, and a systematic method
for extension. Extension is diffused and discontinuous. The better the
research and extension advice given to farmers, the more productive will
be credit use. The Interim Plan proposes a major reform of the extension
service, based in large part on the system to be introduced in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa Project financed by the Bank. Extension agents would give up all
regulatory and most administrative taesks, and concentrate on creating service
cooperatives to which the agents would provide advice on agricultural matters
and aid in obtaining credit and inputs. Problems of inadequate practical
experience and low salaries will continue to be serious obstacles to an
effective extension service, but slow improvement is foreseen.
2.15      Mechanization.  Morocco's uise of tractors and combine harvestors is
limited; totalling 23,200 tractors at the end of 1978 (330 cultivated ha per
tractor), and 2,090 combines (3,685 cultivated ha per combine). About 3,000
tractors and 325 combines were purchased in 1978 while about 1,500 tractors
and 200 combines were estimated to have completely depreciated. Under the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, tractors and combines would be acquired by
large farmers, Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, and small farmers grouped into
Associations for the purpose of sharing farm machinery. CNCA loan criteria
require a minimum of 50 ha of land to obtain credit for a tractor, 120 ha for
a combine, thus limiting mechanization credit to farming units of a size for
which animal or human cultivation ancL harvest would be uneconomic. In most
non-irrigated farming areas of Morocco, weather and soil conditions are such
that rainfall is necessary before thet land can be prepared for planting by



- 8 -
animal powered implements. On larger farms (50 ha and above), preparation by
animal power requires considerable time. Since the period of rainfall is
short, much of the benefit is lost by the time animal powered land preparation
on such farms is completed. Tractors can prepare the land before the rain,
thus permitting increased use of scarce rain water by the plant. Tractors
also permit better quality land preparation, can work for a longer period of
time without stopping than can animal drawn implements, and since the land can
be prepared at the proper moment, tractors permit fertilizer and high yielding
seed to have a more beneficial impact on yields. Research in Morocco indi-
cates an average 0.3 ton/ha increase in cereal yields as a result of early
sowing permitted by tractors, compared to yields obtained when sowing is
undertaken by animal powered implements.  Mechanization reduces the amount of
land which must be used to produce feed for draft animals, and reduces the
drudgery of agricultural labor (one ha of land preparation by animal power
requires the farmer to walk 60 kilometers). Ex-post analysis of past CNCA
mechanization loans shows good economic and financial returns (para 4.06).
Morocco does not subsidize mechanization, as do many countries and the modest
mechanization to be financed under the Project is appropriate (para 7.18 gives
results of economic analysis).
2.16      Issues of Agro-Industrial Development.  Morocco presently has excess
capacity in some agro-industrial subsectors, in most cases because anticipated
agricultural growth has not been achieved, or because of a tendancy to invest
in large scale industry having greater capacity than required. Excess capacity
exists in industrial flour milling, trituration of oilseeds and olives, sugar
beet and cane processing, milk pasteurization, animal feed production, can-
ning, and cotton ginning. Refineries of vegetable oil and sugar work close
to full capacity as do artisanal flour mills, slaughterhouses, and most small
scale agro-industrial enterprises. Cold storage is used to full capacity.
Growth of agro-industry has been and will continue to be more rapid than
population growth due to rapid urbanization (the urban population consumes
a greater amount of processed food per capita), and income growth (higher
income people consume more processed food than do low income people). Rapid
expansion expected for sugar, milk, meat, olive, and vegetable production
should rapidly utilize excess processing capacity, and additional capacity
will be required in the early 1980's. Finance for large scale agro-industry
is available from foreign investors, wealthy Moroccan citizens, foreign
suppliers, the Moroccan Industrial Development Bank (BNDE), and the Moroccan
Government. Small and medium scale agro-industry does not receive adequate
attention. Its expansion is constrained by (a) lack of finance, (b) lack of
information, technical competence, and experience in dealing with financial
institutions and Government, and (c) lack of skilled labor. The small scale
agro-industry component of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project would be
directed to industries where capacity is not sufficient and would attack the
first two constraints to development of small scale agro-industry (para 6.09).
The last constraint would not compromise the viability of the component.



- 9 -
2.17      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Bank agricultural sector stra-
tegy in Morocco is to concentrate on target group oriented agriculture proj-
ects rather than on the large scale irrigation projects emphasized in the
past. In addition, Bank strategy emphasizes agricultural credit which in
Morocco finances a large percentage of directly productive farm investment.
The Moroccan Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) is one of the few agricultural
credit banks in the world which has succeeded in reaching large numbers of
farmers living at the poverty level. The Bank will also emphasize highly
productive export oriented projects in line with the Bank's country economic
recommendation to promote exports. Irrigation and small scale agro-industry
projects would be developed in a manner which permits their complementarity
with rainfed farming. Bank emphasis on adequate recovery charges in irriga-
tion projects would continue to be irmade explicit. Consistent with this
strategy, the Bank is preparing a rural development project similar to the
recently approved Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project emphasizing extension,
training, erosion control, input supply, credit, and rural infrastructure
directed to aiding the rural poor. Additional rural development, agricultural
credit, and export oriented projects are foreseen. Additional agricultural
sector analysis will be undertaken on a periodic basis, and recommendations
discussed with Government.
E. Performance under Previous Projects
2.18      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 11 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$343 million in Bank/
IDA funds (US$24 million of which in IDA credits). They include five irriga-
tion projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Ground-
water (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and Doukkala II (FY77). There have also
been three Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77), an Agro-industries
and Flood Control Project (Sebou II, FY74), and a Rainfed Agricultural Devel-
opment Project in the Meknes region (FY75). A second Agricultural Development
Project (Fes-Karia-Tissa) approved by the Bank in FY78 was declared effective
on February 15, 1979. These projects are performing generally well. Perform-
ance in irrigation projects suffered temporarily from problems of land distri-
bution, organization, delays in construction and in acquisition of irrigation
equipment, and inadequate cost recovery. Implementation delays have been
caused primarily by lack of coordination between and within participating
Ministries. The major issues in the Meknes Project have been the delay in
land redistribution, Project start-up delays, and a poorly defined division
of responsibility between the Project Authority and the Central Government.
Measures to correct these problems are now being finalized. The Fes-Karia-
Tissa Project was designed so as to minimize organization and management
problems such as those encountered with Meknes. Results of the three Agri-
cultural Credit Projects are reported in Chapter IV.



- 10 -
III. THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT, THE CAISSE NATIONAL
DE CREDIT AGRICOLE, AND ANALYSIS OF ISSUES
A. Credit Sources and Policy in Morocco
3.01      Distribution of Institutional Credit in Morocco.  Morocco's institu-
tional finance system comprises (i) 15 commercial banks having a combined net-
work of about 75 branches; and (ii) five specialized institutions including
CNCA. Long term finance is provided to private investors principally through
three institutions: the industrial bank (BNDE), the housing and tourism bank
(CIH), and the agricultural bank (CNCA). Morocco has a Central Bank (Banque
du Maroc) and a capital market centered in Casablanca where gold, bonds,
shares and Government securities are traded. There is also an interbank money
market controlled by the Central Bank. CNCA provides medium- and short-term
loans to agriculture and to small-scale agro-industry (wÎth investments less
than DHIO million). CNCA's short-term lending would not be included in the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project because CNCA easily obtains financing for
short-term loans through refinancing facilities with the Central Bank and with
a specialized Savings Bank (Caisse de Depot et de Gestion).
3.02      Analysis of credit distribution by sector and by origin indicates
that loans to agriculture have increased slightly less rapidly than loans to
other sectors (20% p.a. versus 24% p.a. average for all sectors), though more
rapidly than inflation (10% p.a.). Agriculture received only 13.9% of total
credit distributed to the private sector in 1977 down from 16% in 1973. About
46% of the loans to agriculture in 1977 were short-term loans provided by
commercial banks, the remainder being provided by CNCA in the form of short-,
medium-, and long-term loans. Short-term commercial bank lending to agricul-
ture has grown somewhat more rapidly than CNCA lending. Commercial banks lend
almost entirely to large farmers.
B. CNCA: Background, Organization, and Personnel
3.03      CNCA was established in December 1961 as an autonomous Government
owned institution. CNCA is administered by a Board of Directors chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture, and a Managing Committee presided by CNCA's
General Director. The Managing Committee includes representatives of the
Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Interior, and the Central Bank. CNCA's
infrastructure includes its headquarters in Rabat, 29 regional banks ("Caisses
Regionales de Credit Agricole", CRCAs) which lend to medium and large farmers,
and 91 local banks ("Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole", CLCAs) which lend to
small farmers (para 3.07). Since 1974/75, eight Regional Directorates have
supervised the CRCAs and CLCAs in their regions. Coordination between CNCA
and the Ministry of Agriculture has occurred in the provision of credit for
integrated crop production in the large scale irrigation perimeters and for
the Agrarian Reform Cooperatives. In both cases Government extension agents
estimate credit needs and submit a technical document to CNCA for evaluation



- il -
and approval. CNCA appraises borrower's creditworthiness and investment
viability. CNCA's credit policies have evolved since its creation, and
are no longer fully consistent with the regulations under which CNCA was
originally established. CNCA is presently studying possible revisions of
these regulations.
3.04      CNCA staff number 1,519 of which 451 are in the Head Office, 627
in CRCAs and 440 in CLCAs. The level of education is high, and staff are
qualified. CNCA staff training is of good quality. CNCA's appraisal and
supervision activity is beginning to suffer from a shortage of agricultural
technicians. Newly graduated agricultural technicians are assigned to CNCA,
as well as to other Government services, by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MARA). The problem is that the number of Moroccan graduates
of Agricultural Institutes is far below demand. Expansion of technical train-
ing programs for agricultural technicians would be desirable. CNCA's salary
structure has become somewhat uncompetitive in attracting and keeping staff as
private banks and industry pay increasingly higher salaries. Recognizing this
problem CNCA has requested Ministry of Finance approval of a new salary struc-
ture and personnel regulations in which average salaries would be increased
by 18%. The Ministry of Finance is studying the proposal and is likely to
approve it (para 6.02).
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.05      Policy Changes.  The major changes in CNCA policy since the Third
Agricultural Credit Project have been regionalization of lending norms, decen-
tralization of lending responsibilities and simplification of lending proce-
dures. The institutional objectives have been to maximize the number of farm
clients, accelerate loan appraisal and disbursement, and tailor credit norms
to farming conditions specific to each region.
3.06      Head Office and CRCA's.  The Head Office lends to large farmers,
cooperatives, State owned companies operating in agriculture, and Irrigation
Development Offices. CRCAs lend to medium and large farmers with fiscal
incomes (net income estimated by tax authorities for tax purposes) above
DH3,000 (actual farm income above US$1,900), and to pre-cooperative associa-
tions for mechanization. Lending procedures are flexible and processing is
rapid for farmers who have had a satisfactory repayment performance for two
years and who use modern farming methods (category A farmers). Procedures are
more rigorous for farmers not meeting category A criteria, and include field
appraisal of loan applications. CNCA has achieved a relatively good balance
between thoroughness of appraisal and the objective of reaching a large number
of farmers with limited staff although the staff limitation is becoming more
of a constraint (para 3.04). The amount which headquarters (HQ) or the CRCAs
are willing to lend to an applicant is based on lending norms for each input
and investment established separately for five agro-economic regions. The
norms are adjusted each year to account for inflation. For short-term loans,
lending norms are expressed in Dirha-m per ha per crop. For medium- and



- 12 -
long-term loans, norms are expressed as a percentage, usually 70%, of norma-
tive investment cost. Agricultural criteria are used in appraising investment
viability. The most important criteria are the minimum farm size required to
obtain a mechanization loan (averaging 50 ha for a tractor, 120 ha for a
combine, with slight variations between agro-economic zones), and the forage
production requirements for livestock loans (para 2.13). Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives receive loans equal to 100% of investment cost for their first
loan application declining to the normal 70% from the sixth year of a Coop-
erative's existence onwards. Loans are generally secured for all private
borrowers by a chattel mortgage on equipment purchased under the loan, or by a
mortgage on the farm. For loans to Cooperatives, the collective guarantees of
the members are sometimes required. For loans to State Companies a Government
guarantee is obtained.
3.07       CLCAs.  CLCAs make loans to small farmers whose "fiscal income" is
below DH2,000 or DH3,000 (which approximates an actual net income of US$1,250
to US$1,900 in 1978 prices) depending on the Province.  Credit is provided on
the basis of annually updated lending norms specifying credit per object in
which the applicant intends to invest, subject to a loan ceiling. The loan
ceiling is established such that annual principal on total CLCA loans to the
farmer does not exceed 100% of the farmer's fiscal income if fiscal income is
between DH100 and DH300, or 150% for farmers having fiscal income between
DH300 and DH3,000. The Moroccan tax office communicates the fiscal income
of each farmer to the CLCAs in each commune. The loan ceilings minimize both
CLCA lending risk and client indebtedness. This is important because appraisal
of CLCA loans is based only on a desk review. Systematic field appraisal and
supervision of small farmer loans would not be administratively feasible and
would result in a reduction of such lending, although supervision of a random
sample of CLCA clients would be beneficial (para 6.05). Presently, each CLCA
agent approves an average of 500 loans per year, a rhythm necessary if the
approximately 100,000 CLCA loans per year are to be processed. However, the
fiscal income ceiling on loan amount is arbitrary, and is unrelated to invest-
ment cost or to the farmers real repayment capacity once the investment is
undertaken. As a result, credit provided to CLCA clients often constitutes
less than 70% of investment costs, which is the theoretical norm. in response
to Bank observations on this issue CLCA lending norms have been liberalized
for 1978/79 (para 6.04).
3.08       Interest Rates.  The present interest rate is 8.5% for medium and
long-term loans to private farmers, companies and for Agrarian Reform Coop-
eratives from the sixth year of their existence onwards. Small farmer pre-
cooperative associations and newly created Agrarian Reform Cooperatives pay
an interest rate of 7%. The net interest rate including commission paid by
industrial enterprises on medium-term loans from the industrial development
bank (BNDE) 1/ is 9%; BNDE receives an additional 2% interest rate subsidy
from Government bringing the interest rate it receives to 11%. The rate of
inflation is projected at about 9% in 1979, a decline from 12.5% in 1977 and
9.1% in 1978. Bank projections indicate a decline in the rate of inflation
to 7% in 1980 when the Project starts up, rising to 8% p.a. for the remainder
1/   Banque Nationale Pour le Development Economique.



- 13 -
of the Project period. CNCA's average medium- and long-term lending rate
would be positive in real terms during the Project period. CLCA interest
rates are imposed as commissions, which are not calculated prorata temporis.
These commissions were increased in September 1977 in conformity with the Loan
Agreement for the Third Agricultural Credit Project. The commissions are
currently 5.5% for short-term loans (equivalent to 13% prorata temporis) and
5.75 to 7% for medium terms loans (8.5% pro-rata temporis). Commissions are
charged at loan disbursement and each October 1 thereafter on the amount of
the loan outstanding. The commission system is simple to administer and will
continue to be applied by the CLCAs. CNCA's interest rates would be high
enough to provide an adequate interest rate spread since the average cost of
CNCA resources would be 3.2%. This permits CNCA to generate a small annual
profit. Although the level of CNCA lending rates during the Project period
is unlikely to be an issue, the rigidity of interest rates with respect to
short-term fluctuations in domestic inflation rates and external financial
conditions is an issue. If real lending rates again become negative, credit
rationing would be the result, with large, low risk borrowers obtaining most
credit. A mechanism permitting the adjustment of CNCA interest rates when
CNCA's financial situation requires is proposed in para. 6.07.
3.09      Loan Recovery.  The cumulative rate of loan recovery is excellent;
94% on Head Office and CRCA loans, 97% on CLCA loans. The annual rate of
loan recovery is about 82%, lower than the cumulative rate because of late
payments.
3.10      Separation of Accounts.  In conformity with the Loan Agreement
with the Bank under the Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects, CLCA
accounts are kept separate from Headquarters/CRCA accounts, though they are
consolidated at the end of the year. The CLCAs operate at a small loss each
year, which is compensated by a Government subsidy (about DH5 million in
1977/78). This is partly caused by the fact that more expensive financing,
such as World Bank lending, has been allocated by lending institutions to the
CLCAs, and less expensive funds (Arab Fund Loan) have been allocated to the
Headquarters/CRCAs.
3.11      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The most persistent problem under pre-
vious Agricultural Credit Projects has been the inadequate quality of informa-
tion used for management decision making within CNCA, and in reporting to the
Bank. Only at the end of the fiscal year when CNCA puts together its Annual
Report is a large quantity of information mobilized and analyzed. This leaves
management without adequate information during the year, with the exception of
financial information which is well maintained. Important information gaps
exist with respect to:
(a) impact of credit on clients' yields, input use, incomes;
(b) physical objects acquired through credit;
(c) disbursements by investment category;
(d) regional variations in lending;



- 14 -
(e) recoveries by investment category and farm type.
Quarterly reports are received by the Bank about three muL-;hs latL.              "
Agricultural Credit Project Appraisal Report commented on these problems, and
in partial response included a monitoring and evaluation system in the Project.
The monitoring and evaluation system has been in operation since September
1977.  The quality of the system is good; based on monthly visits and informa-
tion collected for 200 sample farms by eight full time monitoring agents.
Farm, price, investment and some qualitative data are collected, and are used
by management in updating lending norms and criteria. Data obtained from this
system was used in preparation and appraisal of the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project (paras 6.13 and 6.14). CNCA's reporting system to the Bank still
needs improvement (para 6.15), and the information gaps listed in (b) through
(e) above continue to exit.
D. Sources and Uses of Funds
3.12       Resources.  As at August 31, 1978, CNCA's resources were as follows:
Average Growth
Per Annum (% p.a.)
DH Million    (1974/75 to 1977/78)
CNCA equity                                        456.7                21
Long term borrowing                                441.7                28
(IBRD) /1                                        (203.4)
(Arab Fund)                                        (52.9)
(KfW)                                              (20.4)
(Eurodollar)                                     (122.9)
(Domestic bond issues)                             (42.0)
Deposits                                           235.9                20
Central Bank refinancing and
other short-term                                 98.9                 17
Total                                      1,233.3                21
(US$302.3 million)
/1   Outstanding balances of IBRD loans are:  433-MOR:  DH26.9 m.
861-MOR: DH98.9 m.
1361-MOR: DH77.6 m.
3.13      Assets.  Most CNCA resources go to lending operations, with only
2.1% going to fixed assets (buildings and equipment) and to investments in
State Debentures, equity participations, etc. In 1977/78 lending operations
were as follows:



-- 15 -
---------------DH Million------------
Short-Term      Medium-Term       Total
CLCAs                                     20.4            174.3           194.7
HQ/CRCA individual farmers               253.4             125.4          378.8
Comprehensive crop programs               54.7               9.5           64.2
Cooperatives and Associations             29.7             52.3            82.0
Companies and others                      95.7             10.7           106.4
Total                          453.9             372.2          826.1
(US$ million)                  (106)            (87)            (193)
Projections for future lending form the basis of the Project cost computation
in Chapter V.
E. Financial Position
3.14      CNCA's financial position is good, reflecting its efficient manage-
ment.  In conformity with the Loan Agreement established with the Bank for
the Third Agricultural Credit Project, CNCA's liquid and current assets cover
twice its short-term liabilities.  Because of this favorable current ratio,
combined with an excellent rate of loan recovery, CNCA's liquidity position
is good. CNCA's equity resources represent 40% of its total liabilities, and
long-term debt represents 39%. Together, these two sources of funds more than
cover CNCA's medium- and long-term loans outstanding. The balance, along with
deposits and Central Bank advances, covers outstanding short-term loans. CNCA
therefore covers term investments with the appropriate term resources. Pro-
fits increased 4 1/2 times from 1974/75 to 1977/78, reaching DH5.3 million
(US$1.3 million) in 1977/78. The major financial issue presently facing CNCA
is its need to mobilize additional domestic resources given the constraint of
interest rate controls imposed by Government. Interest rates paid by CNCA
on savings accounts vary from 3% on savings deposits to 8% on 18 to 24 month
deposits and bonds. With inflation at 9% (12% in 1977), these interest rates
are negative, thus discouraging savings. Bank projections indicate that price
inflation will abate as Morocco enters into recession, probably falling to
7-8% p.a. during 1979-85. Savings rates will then be more positive in real
terms, and this may induce greater financial savings.
F. Conclusion
3.15      In summary, CNCA is an efficient agricultural credit institution,
effectively lending to a large number of Moroccan farmers, while recovering
a large percentage of loans and keeping costs within reasonable limits. The
areas in which improvement could be made include mechanisms for delivering
credit to small farmers, mobilization of domestic resources, supervision of



- 16 -
CLCA clients, and monitoring and evaluation of the lending program. CNCA may
also be constrained in the future by inadequate availability of agricultural
technicians, and the inflexibility of Moroccan interest rates in responding
to variations in the inflation rate and in the demand for and supply of credit.
IV. PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
A. First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 433-MOR), February 1966 1/
4.01      A Bank loan for US$10 million helped finance CNCA's lending program
for the period 1966-69. It included lending for investments by medium and
large farms and for farm equipment and machinery of a state company managing
land confiscated from foreign settlers (CGEA; Centrale de Gestion des Exploi-
tations Agricoles). The Project was audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department 2/. Project problems included:
(a) shortage of qualified CNCA personnel causing delays in loan
processing;
(b) Government intervention directing CNCA resources to CLCA
(small farmer) lending not approved by the Bank;
(c) dissolution of CGEA 18 months after loan effectiveness with-
out prior notification of the Bank.
In February 1968, the Bank suspended disbursements for subloans to individual
farmers and cancelled the unused balance (US$234,600) committed to CGEA. Dis-
bursements against subloans to individual borrowers were reinstated after the
Bank was assured that all CLCA operations would be separated (both in financ-
ing and staffing) from CNCA, and that CNCA would update its accounts and
strengthen its staff. CNCA's weakness, along with the Government's inter-
ference in CNCA operations, were the principal causes of the Project's mixed
results. According to the OED Report, about 6,000 farmers obtained credit
(0.5% of Moroccan farmers) under the Project. Investments financed by CNCA
caused an increase in income for these farmers, with investment in irrigation
pumps, wells, and livestock being particularly productive.  Mechanization was
profitable in high rainfall areas, but risky in semi-arid areas. The OED
reported that the most important achievement under the First loan was the
institutional development of CNCA, permitting an increasingly better perform-
ance in the future.
1/   February 2, 1966 was the date of effectiveness.
2/   OED Report Agricultural Credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4, "Evalua-
tion of the CNCA/IBRD Agricultural Credit Program in Morocco."



- 17 -
B. Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 861-MOR, Credit 338-MOR),
February 1973
4.02      The Loan/Credit of US$34 million was made to finance CNCA lending
during 1973-76 to medium and large farmers (HQ and CRCA clients) for invest-
ments in grain farm equipment, citrus plantation development, winter vegetable
production, marketing facilities, dairy, cattle and sheep operations. Total
project cost was estimated at US$69.4 million. The Bank excluded loans to
small farmers (CLCA lending) from the Project arguing that investments fi-
nanced by such loans would not be financially viable, and that institutional
arrangements for CLCA lending were not adequate. Disbursements were delayed
at the beginning of the Project due to CNCA difficulties in assembling the
necessary disbursement documentation, iand to a ceiling on the percentage of
subloans to enjoy a 6.5% interest rate. The Loan Agreement had specified that
a maximum of 20% of the Loan/Credit would be on-lent at 6.5% (only to farmers
with fiscal incomes between DH3,000 and DH6,000), and the remainder to be
on-lent at 8%. Since about 35% of demand for credit was from the smaller
farmers, this lending restriction prohibited satisfaction of credit needs and
slowed disbursements. Higher interest rates on all CNCA loans were introduced
in September 1975, thus stepping up disbursements. The Loan/Credit was fully
disbursed in May 1976, one month ahead of schedule. About 17,000 mostly large
farmers benefitted from this Project. A follow up project was identified by
the Bank, but was financed by the Government of Iran, hence accounting for the
one year gap between the end of the Second Agricultural Credit Project and the
start-up of the Third Agricultural Credit Project.
C. Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1361-MOR), August 1977
4.03      The Third Agricultural Credit Project included all CNCA lending to
individual farmers through the CLCAs, CRCAs, and Headquarters; the Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives; the integrated crop programs managed by the Irrigation
Project Offices; and farm mechanization undertaken by pre-cooperative asso-
ciations of small farmers. Excluded from the Project were CNCA short-term
lending and medium-term lending to stat:e and private companies. The Project
covers CNCA lending during the period January 1977 to August 1979. Total
project costs were estimated at US$315.3 million equivalent with the World
Bank loan equal to US$35 million. Estimated investment through January 1979
is US$250 million equivalent. Bank disbursements under the Project have
totalled US$17.3 million, or about 7% of Project cost. The Bank loan should
be fully disbursed as foreseen on August 31, 1979. CNCA will help finance the
following approximate percentages of Moroccan agricultural investment under
the Project:



- 18 -
Tractors                                        40
Combines                                        80
Pumps                                           15
Plantations                                     40
Vineyards                                       15
Transport Equipment                             70
Imported Pure Bred Cows                         90
Pure Bred Cows born in Morocco                  60
Cross Bred Cows                                 15
D. Performance Evaluation of the Second
and Third Agricultural Credit Projects
4.04      The several Bank projects contributed to CNCA's expansion in acti-
vity. Regional branch banks (CRCAS) increased in number from 15 in 1970 to
29 in 1978. The number of CLCAs increased from 53 to 91 in the same period.
The number of loans increased from about 28,000 to 135,800 and disbursements
from DH265 million to DH833 million during this period. In 1977, CNCA had
debt outstanding to 323,830 farmers out of a total 1,928,000 farms in Morocco.
About 40% of CNCA's borrowers lived at or below the absolute poverty level
when loans were made. The two Agricultural Credit Projects also assisted the
rural poor by creating farm employment. About 52,000 manyears of employment
will be created under the Third Agricultural Credit Project, despite the
direct replacement of 5,500 manyears caused by Project mechanization. 1/
4.05      The increased Moroccan  production of industrial crops, milk, meat
and vegetables would not have come about without agricultural credit, although
these production increases also occurred as the result of investment in irri-
gation facilities, sugar processing plants, milk collection and processing
centers, animal health services, etc. The relative stagnation in the produc-
tion of cereals and pulses during the last several years occurred despite CNCA
financed investment in mechanization for grain farms. However, there were
three drought years in the last six causing production of cereals and pulses
to fall. Production would have fallen further had the mechanization which
CNCA financed not occurred and depreciated assets not replaced.
4.06       In order to assess the impact of CNCA loans, farm level analysis was
undertaken on the basis of results obtained from CNCA's monitoring and evalua-
tion system (Annex 7). Rates of return actually obtained by 13 sample farms
on CNCA financed investments are shown below. These farms do not necessarily
1/   This direct replacement of labor is offset by mechanization's indirect
employment impact on ancilary industry and services such as machinery
repair shops and spare parts, as well as on agro-industrial expansion
caused by the increased agricultural output brought on by mechanization.



- 19 -
represent average CNCA clients, but r,epresent the more efficient, or in several
cases less efficient clients. Net reLurns include not only those on invest-
ments, but the return to improved farm practices, Government services for which
no payment is made by the farmer, and relative price changes. This causes
rates of return to be generally higher than would be the case had the effect
of the investment alone been isolated. However, it is apparent that CNCA's
efficient recovery system has induced farmers to seek credit only when they
are confident of a high return and when investments are not excessively risky.
Rate of Return
Farm Investment                                              Financial      Economic
Pure bred cow, stable, truck, storage                           130            95
Pure bred cow, fattening                                         10              7
Destoning, local bred livestock, stable                         155           105
Draft animals, animal shelter, local ]ivestock                   35            50
Sheep (cooperative)                                             150           150
Destoning, sheep, stable                                         80            70
Pumps, irrigation, truck, pure bred cow                          45            30
Well, pump, forage, sheep                                        50            90
Pump, irrigation, fruit plantation                               25            20
Tractor, combine (Cooperative)                                   40            12
Tractor, combine, pick-up                                        30            20
Tractor, stable, fattening                                       30            60
Truck, plough, stable                                            20            40
V. THE F'ROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01      The first two Agricultural Credit Projects were aimed principally
at increasing agricultural production through mechanization, modernization
of medium and large farms, and strengthening CNCA's institutional ability to
finance agriculture.  The Third Agricultural Credit Project assumed the same
objectives; adding the improvement of the income of small farmers borrowing
through the CLCA's (eligible for the first time for Bank financing) and of
cooperatives. The objectives of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project are
identical to those of the Third, with the addition of an agro-industry com-
ponent directed to generating value added to the economy and to agriculture,
and to increasing rural non-farm employment.



- 20 -
B. Description
5.02      The Project incorporates all of the investments foreseen for financ-
ing by CNCA medium- and long-term credit which have been evaluated as finan-
cially and economically viable, and which are consistent with Government
goals. Excluded from the Project are loans for rural housing, certain state
and private companies, sugar operations, and short-term credit. The Project
is based on a projection of demand for eligible CNCA loans, constrained by
CNCA lending criteria. Project costs include the entire investment cost of
eligible objects to be financed by CNCA during the Project period beginning
on September 1, 1979. The Project would be completed on August 31, 1982. The
Project is divided into the five Parts described in the following paragraphs.
5.03      Small Farmers (Part A).  This component would finance investments by
small farmers; those with a fiscal income between DH100 to DH3,000 (roughly
corresponding to farm income of from US$20 to US$325 per capita compared to a
rural absolute poverty income level of US$200 per capita). 1/ It would in-
clude all categories of small farms, including those producing dairy and meat
products, fruit, vegetables, grains, pulses and industrial crops. Investments
would consist mainly of livestock, stables, draft animals, wells, pumps, land
improvement and small equipment. Investments in tractors, harvestors and
transport equipment would not be financed under this category. About half
(47.2%) of the Project cost (US$348 million out of US$737.2 million) would be
in this category.
5.04      Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Pre-Cooperative Associations (Part
B). This component would finance investments by the Agrarian Reform Coopera-
tives and Pre-Cooperative Associations, the members of which are almost
entirely small farmers (per capita incomes ranging from slightly below to
three times the rural absolute poverty level). For the Agrarian Reform Coop-
eratives, investments for farm mechanization and transport equipment are
undertaken by the Cooperative, while investments in cattle, sheep, stables,
plantations, draft animals, wells and small equipment are made individually by
members borrowing through their Cooperatives. Pre-Cooperative Associations of
small farmers are created primarily with the help of extension agents, with
the objective of making common investments in tractors, tractor accessories,
harvestors, or other large equipment which are not profitable or possible for
one farmer to make. About 10.4% of Project costs (US$76.7 million) would be
made in this category of the Project. Of this amount, about 92.8% would go
to the Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, 7.2% to the Pre-Cooperative Associations.
1/   The income estimates for CNCA small farmer clients include farm income
only. Generally, the smaller the farm the greater the number of hours
spent in working off the farm. The smallest farmers may for example have
a family member working in the city whose salary causes total family in-
come to be higher than that of a much larger farmer who depends entirely
on farm income.



- 21 -
5.05      Medium and Large Farmers (Part C).  This category would finance
farmers who are clients of the CRCA's or of CNCA headquarters; which include
those with a fiscal income above DH3,000 (corresponding to per capita income
above US$325). Investments would con,sist mainly of cattle, sheep, tractors,
combine harvestors, stables, storage construction, trucks. wells, pumps,
irrigation equipment, plantations, draft animals, small equipment, and land
improvement. About 32.9% of Project costs (US$242.5 million) would be in this
category.
5.06       Agro-Industry (Part D).  This category would finance investment in
small scale agro-industry oriented ta labor intensive enterprises using
Moroccan agricultural products. The component is intended to contribute to
employment creation in rural areas, provide outlets for agricultural products,
and contribute to economic growth by providing high economic returns to
investments (paras 6.09 and 7.17). A secondary objective is to assist agro-
industries owned by farmer cooperatives so as to encourage the cooperative
movement and to permit the farm sector to receive a large share of Project
benefits. To be financed by CNCA, an agro-industry investment must cost less
than DHIO million (US$2.5 million) and respond to the criteria listed in para
6.09. Subsectors to benefit would include olive oil processing, flour milling,
milk pasteurization, vegetable packing and processing, animal feed, meat pro-
cessing. Excluded would be sugar beet processing, assembly of imported farm
machinery and equipment, establishment of marketing or service enterprises,
and the specific vegetable packing eriterprises which may be financed under
a separate Project now being appraised by the Bank. About US$68.7 million
equivalent of Project costs is intended for this category.
5.07      Monitoring and Evaluation ('Part E).  This category would provide
funds (US$1.0 million) to assist CNCA in extending its monitoring and evalua-
tion system (para 6.13) by acquiring necessary material (vehicles and equip-
ment for agents, computer time, and consultants services if necessary).
C. Cost Estimates
5.08       Project cost estimates incLude the effect of projected average price
inflation at 7% per annum in 1979/80, and 8% p.a. thereafter.  Total Project
cost is estimated at DH2,948.8 million (US$737.2 million) of which about 34%
(US$250.5 million) would be in foreign exchange. About 7% of Project cost
consists of indirect taxes (US$52 miLlion) imposed by Government on investment
goods. The following table summarizes the cost estimates (detailed in both
physical and cost terms in Annexes 1 and 2).



- 22 -
Project Cost
Local   Foreign      Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
---------DH'000 --------      ---------'000---------   Exchange
Agricultural
Machinery       132,025   198,115   330,140   33,006   49,529  82,535           60
Wells, Pumps
and Irriga-
tion Equip-
ment            172,515    73,995   246,510   43,129   18,498  61,627           30
Transport
and Other
Equipment       117,250   117,250   234,500   29,313   29,312  58,625           50
Cattle and
Sheep           661,795   179,885   841,680  165,449  165,449 210,420           20
Stables,
Sheep Folds,
Storage         317,875   212,105   529,980   79,469   79,469 132,495          40
Plantations       81,920    55,280   137,200   20,480   20,480  34,300           40
Land Improve-
ment             60,780    26,070    86,850   15,195   15,195  21,713           30
Draft Animals   258,170           0   258,170   65,542   65,542  64,542           0
Agro-Industry   137,400   137,400   274,800   34,350   34,350  68,700            50
Monitoring
and Evalua-
tion              2,000      2,000     4,000       500       500   1,000        50
Working
Capital           4,970          0     4,970    1,242    1,242   1,242           0
Total          1,946,700 1,002,100 2,948,800  486,675  250,524 737,199           34
Of which
Price Contin-
gencies /a      183.2       94.4     277.6      45.8      23.6    69.4
/a   Base costs are measured at January 1, 1979 prices.
D. Financing
5.09      Project financing would be as follows:



- 23 -
CNCA Lending
CNCA                          Total      Total
Sub-        Gov-   Own                            CNCA       Cost =
Part         borrowers  ernment  Funds   IBRD   IFAD   KfW  Lending  Financing
…---------__________-------…(DH million)------------------------
A. Small Farmers  416.1         7.8    652.1  119.6  100.0  97.9   969.6    1,393.5
B. Agrarian
Reform Coops
and Farmer
Associations   65.2       48.2    129.9   34.9    0.0  28.4   193.2            306.6
C. Medium and
Large
Farmers        291.2       0.0    514.8   90.2    0.0  73.7   678.7            969.9
D. Small Scale
Agro-Industry 137.4        0.0    104.1   33.3    0.0   0.0   137.4            274.8
E. Monitoring and
Evaluation        -        0.0       2.0    2.0    0.0   0.0        4.0          4.0
Total               909.9      56.0  1,402.9  280.0  100.0 200.0 1,982.9    2,948.8
(US$ Million)     (227.4)   (14.0)  (350.8) (70.0)(25.0) (50.0) (495.8)           (737.2)
5.10       CNCA's own resources derived from sub-borrower repayments, profits,
checking and saving deposits, borrowing from the Central Bank, minus CNCA loan
repayments and investments would amount to US$350.8 million equivalent; about
47% of Project costs. Sub-borrowers would finance about 31% of Project costs
as their equity contribution to farm and agro-industrial investments. The
Government would provide small investment grants primarily to Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives and Pre-Cooperative Associations, amounting to 2% of Project
costs. The remaining financing gap of US$145 million (20% of Project costs)
would be jointly financed by a Bank Loan for US$70 million, a loan from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for US$25 million, and
a loan from the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) for US$50 million
equivalent. CNCA would be the borrower for each loan. The distribution of
each loan between the Five Project components was decided during negotiations.
The Bank loan would be for a period of 14 years including a 4 year grace
period, at the interest rate prevailing when the Loan is presented to the
Board. The Loan maturity and grace periods are based on projections of lend-
ing operations and (CNCA) sub-borrowers' repayment schedules. The Bank loan
would finance 12% of CNCA subloans under Part A, 18% under Part B, 13% under
Part C, 25% under Part D, and 50% of the cost of the monitoring and evaluation
system. The IFAD loan, with a maturity of 20 years, 5 years grace, at an
interest rate of 4% would finance 10.3% of loan disbursements under Part A.
The KfW loan would have a maturity of 30 years with 10 years grace at an
interest rate of 3.5%. KfW would actually be paid an interest rate of 2%,
with the remaining 1.5% used by CNCA to create a special fund (interest
differential fund) which could be used to (a) cover the cost of additional
personnel in the CLCA's needed to undertake more intensive appraisal and
supervision of CLCA loans (paras 6.04 and 6.05), (b) finance training abroad
for CNCA staff, and/or (c) credit a CLCA guarantee fund which provides against



- 24 -
bad debt. The KfW loan would finance 10.1% of CNCA subloans under Part A,
14.7% under Part B, and 10.9% under Part C. Government agreed to carry the
foreign exchange risk on all foreign loans, and would guarantee the debt
service on each loan. Government agreed that it would provide or cause CNCA
to be provided with any additional resources required for CNCA's operations,
including the credit operations administered by CNCA on the Government's be-
half.  The signature of Loan and Guarantee Agreements by IFAD and KfW with
CNCA and Government would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
The failure to declare the KfW loan effective by March 1, 1980 would consti-
tute a special condition of suspension.
E. Procurement
5.11       With the exception of the agro-industry component, the range of
goods to be financed under the Project is varied and would not be suitable for
bulk procurement. Contracts would be far too small to warrant competitive
bidding advertised internationally. Foreign suppliers of machinery are well
represented in Morocco, necessary service facilities are available, competi-
tion is keen and prices are competitive. Agricultural sub-borrowers would
therefore purchase agricultural equipment of their choice through existing
local channels. Dairy farm development would require procurement of in-calf
heifers, most of which would come from Government or private farms. However,
should more than 75 heifers be imported under any subloan, quotations from at
least three suppliers would be sought. For the agro-industry component, con-
tracts for civil works, and installation of machinery exceeding the equivalent
of US$200,000, and contracts for equipment exceeding US$100,000 would be
tendered under competitive bidding advertised locally if the total investment
exceeds DH 5 million (US$1.25 million equivalent). Otherwise, procurement
would be undertaken according to commercial practice in Morocco acceptable to
the Bank. Generally, Moroccan commercial practice involves international and
local shopping. CNCA would verify that the Bank's guidelines for procurement
are followed in the case of competitive bidding, and that proper commercial
practices are followed for other contracts. Bidding documents for contracts
of US$300,000 or more which form part of an investment of more than DH 5
million would require prior approval of the Bank, as would final award of
contract. These procedures are likely to assure the most efficient and least
cost procurement by small scale agro-industrial investors borrowing through
CNCA. Because of the widespread representation of foreign equipment suppliers
in Morocco, suppliers from the Bank's member countries would have an equal
opportunity to compete for contracts. Contracts of greatest interest to
foreign suppliers would include installation of machinery and equipment for
milk pasteurization plants, semi-industrial flour mills, cold storage, animal
feed production and canning factories. The value of these contracts including
contingencies would probably not exceed US$40 million.
F. Disbursement
5.12       The Project commitment period is for three years (September 1, 1979
to August 31, 1982) and CNCA's disbursements to sub-borrowers would be in



- 25 -
accordance with the Phasing of individual subproject development. The Bank
loan would be disbursed in about 3 1/2 years. The Bank would reimburse CNCA
against certified statements of expenditures for 12% of subloans disbursed
under Part A, 18% under Part B, 13% under Part C, 25% under Part D, and 50%
of the costs of the monitoring and evaluation system. A minimum of 60% of
Bank funds disbursed for farm investments would be earmarked to small farmers
(Categories A and B). Documentation for the statements of expenditures would
not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by CNCA for review by supervi-
sion missions. CNCA employs suitable accounting procedures and is audited
annually by an auditor approved by the Bank (para 6.16). The Bank would also
receive disbursement applications for the IFAD loan which the Bank would
review, and if approved would send them to IFAD which would then disburse to
CNCA. For the agro-industry subloans, Bank approval would be required for
contracts of US$300,000 or above forming a part of investments greater than
DH 5.0 million.  The Bank would also have to approve agro-industrial sub-
projects having a total cost of DH 2.5 million or above (para 6.09).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Execution and CNCA Staffing
6.01      CNCA would be the borrower and executing agency.  CNCA would,
through the CLCAs, CRCAs and Headquarters extend credit for Project invest-
ments and would maintain the monitoring and evaluation system (para 6.13).
Sub-borrowers would execute the investments. CNCA will therefore continue
to lend in response to loan applications by farmers. CNCA plans to open five
new CLCA branches and 4 new CRCA branches during the Project period.
6.02      Salary Structure.  CNCA has submitted a reasonable proposal to the
Ministry of Finance with respect to staff compensation and incentives (para
3.04). The Ministry of Finance is likely to approve the proposal. Assurances
were obtained from Government that CNCA be permitted to maintain a compensa-
tion and incentive system equivalent to that applicable in comparable institu-
tions.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures for Agricultural Loans
6.03      Existing lending procedures are generally adequate and would be
maintained with the changes outlined below.
6.04      CLCA  Borrowers.  It was indicated in para 3.07 that the amount of
credit which can be obtained by a CLCA client is effectively constrained by a
ceiling defined so that annual principal on loans outstanding cannot exceed
100 to 150% of a client's fiscal income. The relationship of principal to
fiscal income is referred to as the financing ratio. Fiscal income is cal-
culated on the basis of imputed net income per ha or per animal of livestock
according to norms established in 1963. Price inflation has rendered it
increasingly meaningless, and the ceiling often causes credit amounts to



- 26 -
be unrelated to investment cost or to farmers' repayment capacity once the
investment is undertaken. CNCA does adjust the financing ratio periodically
to account for the impact of inflation, and assurances were obtained that
CNCA continue this practice on an annual basis. However, there is some
evidence that CNCA has been excessively prudent in increasing this ratio,
fearing that distribution of too much credit would create overindebtedness
of CLCA clients. In addition, upward adjustment of the financing ratio does
not ensure that investment costs are properly covered by credit since the
ceiling has no relationship to repayment capacity of the farmer.  In order
to resolve this problem, CNCA has agreed to apply new lending norms on an
experimental basis to small farmer CLCA clients, with the object of better
satisfying their credit needs. Eligible would be CLCA clients having fiscal
incomes between DH2,000 and DH3,000 who are able to show proof of property
ownership.  These farmers would be financed on the basis of the more realistic
norms applied to CRCA clients who receive credit equal to 70% of proposed
investments. The system applied to CRCA clients more closely satisfies real
financing needs. CNCA has also agreed, within the context of the Fes-Karis-
Tissa Agriculture Project financed by the Bank (Loan 2017-MOR), to process
collective credit applications submitted by pre-cooperative groups of small
farmers aided by extension agents in the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project area. Credit-
worthiness will be assessed on the basis of repayment capacity rather than on
fiscal income, and each farmers' group will be collectively responsible for
credit repayment. Although this system is not yet sufficiently developed to
replicate elsewhere in Morocco, it may be the best means for reaching more
small farmers. Finally, the application to CRCA lending of different lending
norms and conditions in five different agro-economic regions has proven bene-
ficial. For example, the minimum number of hectares required to obtain a
loan for the purchase of a tractor is higher in areas of lowest rainfall where
tractors are less viable. It would be desirable for CLCA credit norms to be
similarly regionalized. Assurances were obtained that CNCA review with the
Bank the results of the application of liberalized lending norms and of the
credit component of the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project by July 31, 1980 with the
object of establishing new lending criteria and procedures for smaller CLCA
clients. An understanding was reached that CLCA credit norms would gradually
be regionalized. CNCA expects to begin this regionalization in fiscal year
1980/81. The small additional cost of these reforms to CNCA would be met by
funds from the KfW interest differential fund (para 5.10).
6.05       As indicated in para 3.07, the present lack of supervision of CLCA
loans, though understandable given the large number of such loans and the lack
of CLCA staff, is undesirable. Assurances were obtained that a random sample
of about 5% of CLCA clients have their loans supervised during the Project
period. Additional costs incurred by CNCA would be partially met by the KfW
interest differential fund (para 5.10). Other borrowers would continue to be
supervised by CNCA on a regular basis.
6.06       Appraisal of Cooperative investment projects was partially decen-
tralized from the Headquarters to the CRCA level as recommended under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project. The present system is desirable in that
CRCA staff, familiar with local Cooperatives, collect information and may
undertake field appraisal of the Cooperative, while final approval of loans
must be given by Headquarters. In this way, local pressure to approve loans



- 27 -
which may not be viable can be, and is, resisted.  All other lending proce-
dures currently applied in HQ/CRCA lending would be maintained (para 3.06).
All lending regulations are revised each year to take account of price
increases and changes in Government policy or CNCA appraisal criteria.
Assurances were obtained that significant changes in these regulations, as
determined by the Bank, require the agreement of the Bank.
6.07       Financial Charges.  Medium and long-term lending rates, which equal
8.5% for all CNCA clients except for newly created Agrarian Reform Coopera-
tives and Farmers' Associations which pay 7%, are adequate (para 3.08). In
Drder to protect CNCA's financial viability and independence in the event of
more rapid than expected price inflation (which would reduce the real interest
rate), assurances were obtained that (a) when the Government subsidy of CLCA
expenses is forecast to exceed 30% of CLCA expenses, CLCA fees would be
increased to prevent this occurrence; (b) interest rates on Headquarters/CRCA
loans would be adjusted as needed to ensure adequate accumulation of reserves
by CNCA and to provide adequate provisions for bad or doubtful debt. Assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that it would subsidize all losses by
the CLCAs and would take all steps necessary to enable CNCA to set interest
rates consistent with the CNCA's obligations under the Loan Agreement.
6.08       Short-Term Credit.  Assurances were obtained that CNCA provide
Project sub-borrowers with access to short-term credit on appropriate terms
for input financing.
C. Agro-Industry Component
6.09       Project lending to agro-industry would be oriented to labor inten-
sive small scale agro-industries which process Moroccan agricultural products.
The component is intended to create employment in rural areas, provide outlets
for agriculture, and contribute to economic growth by providing high economic
returns to investment. A secondary objective is to assist agro-industries
owned by cooperative groups of Moroccan farmers so as to encourage the coop-
erative movement and to ensure that the farm sector receives a large share
of the benefits. In order that these objectives be satisfied, specific sub-
project evaluation criteria have been agreed to by CNCA:
(a)  agro-industry investments to be assisted by CNCA must be less
than or equal to DH10 million (US$2.5 million), with the target
investment equal to DH2.5 rnillion or less (US$0.63 million);
(b)  subprojects must either be directed to transforming Moroccan
agricultural products or to producing inputs for Moroccan
agriculture;
(c)  subprojects must have a satisfactory legal, administrative
and financial structure;
(d)  subprojects must have adequate input supply, marketing,
technical, and financial plans;



- 28 -
(e) the subprojects must be economically desirable in terms of
the economic return to the country, impact on employment
and income in the region that the enterprise is situated,
and impact on food production.
A free limit of DH 2.5 million (US$0.63 million) would be established above
which investments would require prior approval by the Bank. In addition, the
first five investments approved by CNCA in five different industries would be
submitted to the Bank for approval in order to permit early discussion of
evaluation criteria. CNCA has agreed to apply an interest rate on its loans
to agro-industry at least equal to that applied by other institutions lending
to small scale agro-industry in Morocco, but in no case would this interest
rate be less than 9% for long-term loans with a maturity of 7 years or more,
and 8.5% for medium term loans with a maturity of less than 7 years.
6.10      Staffing.  CNCA would engage a staff of 9 people to evaluate agro-
industry loan applications. The team would include one lawyer, two agro-
nomists, one agro-industrial engineer, three economists, and two agricultural
technical assistants. The team would be located in CNCA's Credit Department
(Direction de Credit) in Rabat. Agreement was obtained that this evaluation
unit be fully staffed with suitably qualified people by December 31, 1980.
6.11      Lack of Information, Technical Know-how, and Experience of Potential
Agro-Industry Borrowers. This constraint to agro-industrial development
is normally removed through promotional and technical assistance programs
directed to small investors. The most important program providing technical
assistance to small scale industry in Morocco will be the Small Scale Industry
Technical Assistance Group in Morocco's "Office de Developpement Industriel"
(ODI). This group is being established under the Bank's Small Scale Industry
Project. 1/ The Director of ODI has agreed that CNCA may forward prospective
borrowers requiring technical assistance to ODI, and that agro-industrial
projects promoted by ODI would be submitted to CNCA, as well as to other
interested lending institutions, for evaluation and possible financing.
Agreement was obtained from CNCA that a formal arrangement to this effect be
entered into with ODI by December 31, 1980. CNCA's direct technical assis-
tance would be restricted to advising clients on assistance available else-
where, and to the submission to the client of an evaluation report. This
report would provide CNCA's observations on legal, technical, marketing,
financial, organizational, and economic factors. Rural entrepreneurs would
be able to transmit project ideas or loan applications to the evaluation
unit through CNCA's branch bank network. Additional technical assistance
and promotional services for agro-industry are provided by the "Office de
Commercialisation et d'Exportation" (OCE) for export oriented agro-industry,
the Irrigation Offices (ORMVA) for agro-industry within the irrigation peri-
meters, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
1/   The Small Scale Industrial Project was appraised at the same time as
the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Appraisal Report No. 2365-MOR).



- 29 -
D. Special Financial Covenants
6.12      In order to assist CNCA in maintaining a prudent financial structure
assurances were obtained as under the Third Agricultural Credit Project, that:
(a) CNCA medium- and long-term debt (including deposits over 12
months) would not exceed 4 times equity; and
(b) CNCA's current assets would equal at least 120% of current
liabilities.
CNCA has had no difficulty in satisfying these requirements, and no difficulty
is foreseen.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
6.13      The monitoring and evaluation system established by CNCA under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project should be maintained, and assurances were
obtained to this effect. The presen,t monitoring system collects data from
200 sample farms on a monthly basis. The information collected is assisting
CNCA management to improve lending n,orms, appraisal criteria, and credit
delivery. The data also permit assessment of the impact of CNCA lending on
cropping patterns, crop and livestock yields, input use, employment, farm
income, prices, etc. Problems which are in the process of resolution include:
(a) inadequate sample size;
(b)  a somewhat unrepresentative sample of farmers;
(c) excessive information collected compared to CNCA's ability
to process it;
(d) insufficient analytical ar,d data processing capacity at
CNCA;
(e)  insufficient emphasis on qualitative information which
would assist CNCA in identifying bottlenecks to efficient
credit delivery.
The monitoring and evaluation component of the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project would assist CNCA in resolving these problems by providing equipment
(vehicles, calculators, computer programs), consulting services, and overseas
training for monitoring and evaluation staff.  At least two CNCA staff would
be trained in analytical methods so that more sophisticated sampling and
analysis of data could be undertaken. CNCA has also agreed to prepare a Proj-
ect Completion Report within six months after the Project closing date. The
report would evaluate Project execution, performance by sub-borrowers, by
Government, by the Bank, and by CNCA itself.



- 30 -
6.14      It might be more efficient to establish a sector wide monitoring
and evaluation system at the Ministry of Agriculture which would serve all
Government agriculture projects including the Credit Projects. Costs of
monitoring and evaluation systems are relatively high and therefore difficult
to replicate for all projects undertaken in agriculture. A well equipped and
properly trained team operating out of Rabat with standardized questionnaires
could efficiently monitor and evaluate activities of numerous projects. Con-
siderable cross fertilization between projects might occur as a result.
Bottlenecks caused by sector problems (marketing rigidities, price policies,
land tenure) could be brought more quickly to the attention of appropriate
Government authorities. Project specific monitoring and evaluation units have
much less weight with Government. Evaluation would be more impartial, since
project specific evaluation units may be induced by project management to
communicate overly optimistic results rather than undertake serious analysis.
Replicable project results can be more rapidly disseminated from the center.
It is unlikely that such a system could be established during the three year
period of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project. However, an understanding
was reached with Government that it study with the Bank the possibility of
establishing a sector wide monitoring and evaluation system.
6.15      Reporting.  As indicated in para 3.11, the reports sent by CNCA to
the Bank come late and are not of good quality, except for the annual report
at the end of the year which is of excellent quality. A new system of report-
ing was developed with CNCA during appraisal which would solve this problem by
providing timely communication of reports, by including disbursement data for
each loan category and by category of beneficiary, loan recovery data, CNCA
financial and personnel status, changes in lending policy and procedures, etc.
This system has been incorporated in CNCA's reporting requirements to the Bank.
F. Accounts and Audit
6.16      CNCA has a satisfactory accounting organization and its financial
analysis is sophisticated. Audit arrangements under the Third Agricultural
Credit Project have been satisfactory. Agreement was obtained that CNCA con-
tinue to have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. In addition, the statement of expenditures sent to the Bank in appli-
cation for loan disbursement would be audited by the same auditors to ensure
that actual CNCA expenditures under the Project are consistent with the state-
ments of expenditures submitted to the Bank. The auditor's annual report and
the audit of the statement of expenditures would be sent to the Bank within
five months of the end of each fiscal year.
VII. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production Generated by Project
7.01      Projections of incremental crop production resulting from the Proj-
ect are subject to considerable error since (a) there are a large number of



- 31 -
possible cropping patterns which CNCA clients may implement; (b) relative
prices are likely to change inducing changes in cropping patterns; and (c) a
significant percentage of investment would be to replace depreciated assets
thus serving to avert a reduction in production rather than to increase pro-
duction. In order to provide an order of magnitude to compare with demand
for food in Morocco, the following Project incremental crop production pro-
jections were made based on farm budlget analysis (Annex 8). This analysis
shows that the Project would increase crop production in Morocco through
changed cropping patterns and increased crop yields resulting from Project
financed wells, pumps, mechanized farming, draft animals, plantations, agri-
cultural implements, land levelling, destoning, and other land improvements.
The quantities of these assets whiclh would be financed under the Project are
estimated in Annex 1. Development of meat and milk production would result
from Project investment in pure breed and cross breed cows and sheep, replac-
ing lower yielding local breed animals, development of forage crops and animal
feed, improved animal shelters, complemementary Government livestock services
(para 2.13), and increased marketing and processing facilities for milk and
meat (para 2.13).
As a
Incremental         % of Increase in
Annual Production       Annual Moroccan
Permitted        Consumption between
By Project           1977 and 1985
(tons)                 (%)
Wheat                            107,000                 6.5
Barley                          -100,000 /1               -
Forage                           163,000 /1             16.0
Vegetables                       215,000                9.5
Industrial Crops               1,283,000               13.0
Pulses                             1,000                  .7
Fruit                            500,000                70.0 /2
Milk                             300,000                42.0 /3
Meat                              55,000                18.0 /3
/1   The reduction in barley production is compensated by the increase in
forage production. Forage is measured as '000 feed units, and the
amount projected under the Project is comparable in feed value to
163,000 tons of barley.
/2   Includes Project fruit production as percentage of projected increase
in Moroccan consumption through 1990 excluding exports.
/3  Measured as a percentage of incremental Moroccan consumption from 1977
to 1990, plus imports in 1977. Full Project production would occur by
1990.
All Project production would go to satisfying increased demand for food,
except for some fruit production which may be exported. The alternative to
the Project would be a comparable increase in imports of wheat, vegetables,
industrial crops (vegetable oils, sugar), milk and meat.



- 32 -
B. Marketing and Prices of Agricultural Products (Annex 5)
7.02      Morocco's market for agricultural products is relatively free.
Most domestic production is consumed either by the farm family or sold on
local markets. The present marketing system is efficient and capable of
managing the increased production which would result from the Project.
7.03      Milk.  The above table indicates that the Project would satisfy
about 42% of increased annual milk consumption by 1990. Since most incre-
mental milk production in Morocco would be financed by CNCA credit, it is
unlikely that imports of dairy products would be reduced below the present
level of about 35,000 tons per year, at a cost of about US$37 million per
year in 1977 prices. Dairy products produced in Morocco would have no diffi-
culty finding commercial outlets due to the rapid expansion of milk collection
centers (about 100 will be constructed in the next three years bringing the
total to 225 by 1980), and increased milk processing capacity (presently 8
pasturization plants exist having a capacity of 180 thousand tons per year
and three more are under construction). Future investment in milk processing
facilities is foreseen (para 7.17). The quantity of milk sold to processing
plants increased at 18.5% p.a. from 1970 to 1975.
7.04      The average farmgate price of milk paid by processing plants is
DHl.1 per liter. The most economic alternative to domestic supply of milk
to processing plants is the reconstitution of non-fat dry milk powder and
butter oil imported from the European Community or New Zealand, European
exports of powdered skim milk are heavily subsidized, and this situation
is likely to persist through the mid-1980's. However, the European community
tends to be a price follower with New Zealand setting the price. The f.o.b.
price of New Zealand non-fat dairy milk powder is about US$325 per ton;
equaling DH3,350 per ton c.i.f. Casablanca.   The c.i.f. price of milk fat
delivered to Morocco equals DH6,930 per ton. Reconstituted milk requires 3.5%
milk fat, 9.5% non-fat dairy milk powder and 87% water. Adding DH40 per 1,000
liters for the cost of reconstitution, and deducting the average cost of
transporting domestic milk to processing plants (DH40 per 1,000 liters) yields
an efficiency price at farmgate equal to DHO.59 per liter. This price was
used in the analysis of the economic return to commercial milk production in
Morocco (paras 7.18 and 4.06). 1/ This efficiency price is lower than the
domestic price of DHl.l per liter.  The "Caisse de Compensation" now pays a
subsidy of DHO.28 per liter to milk processors which is in reality a producer
subsidy.  The subsidy is regressive since it benefits the largest farmers who
are the commercial milk producers.  It should be eliminated.  Milk produced
under the Project which is consumed on the farm rather than sold to processing
plants is considered a non-traded good and is valued for the economic analysis
at the domestic price of DH1.1 per liter multiplied by a rural consumption
conversion factor of 0.71 which converts market values of rural consumption of
non-traded goods into border prices (Annex 8).
1/   This "economic" price may put too low a value on domestic milk if con-
sumers prefer fresh milk to reconstituted dry milk. If this is the case,
the economic rates of return to dairy production reported in para 7.18
are biased downward.



- 33 -
7.05      Meat.  Morocco was self sufficient in meat production until 1975
when 3,000 tons were imported. High tariffs and quantitative controls con-
strain imports to a negligible level. Loans for livestock development consti-
tute about 30% of CNCA Project lending. This is consistent with livestock's
role in Moroccan agriculture, where it. contributes 37% of agricultural value
added, and occupies 25% of employed agricultural labor. The Project would
produce about 18% of Morocco's incremiental annual meat requirements from 1977
to 1990. The Project would increase M4orocco's sheep and cattle population by
about 5%.
7.06.     The economic alternative to local production would be increased
imports requiring reduced quantitatives controls on imports.  Beef imported
into Morocco would cost about US$1.50 per kg (DH6.45 per kg) 1/ when con-
verted to carcass weight. In 1977, the average wholesale price for cattle at
Casablanca was DH6.3 per kg liveweight, corresponding to a farmgate price of
DH6.1 per kg. The domestic and the border prices of beef are therefore
roughly equivalent. In 1977, Morocco imported 69,000 live sheep at an average
c.i.f. price of DH6.45 per kg liveweight. Imported frozen lamb carcasses
would be considerably cheaper, equaling US$1.69 per kg boneless (DH4.4 when
converted to liveweight equivalent) from New Zealand. The Moroccan consumer
is therefore willing to pay a premium of about DH2.05 per kg for fresh mutton
over frozen boneless mutton. The lower price (DH4.4 pr kg) was used in the
economic analysis (paras 7.18 and 4.06). There is no problem in the marketing
of meat with 90% of cattle and 50% of sheep and goat meat slaughtered in
Government controlled abattoirs, subsequently passing through a competitive
marketing chain to private retailers. Alternatively, producers sell directly
to butchers at local market places (souks).
7.07       Cereals.  Morocco's cereal production is not increasing with demand,
resulting in an increase in cereal imports. Most domestic production of
cereals is consumed by farm producers or sold on local markets at free market
prices. About 8,000 artisanal flour mills are the major outlet for domestic-
ally produced wheat. A public enterprise, the "Office National Interprofes-
sional des Cereales et Legumineuses" (ONICL) imports soft wheat, buys local
soft wheat at a fixed price and other cereals at support prices. ONICL re-
sells cereal to 66 industrial flour mills. These flour mills operated at 80%
of capacity in 1976. The Project's incremental annual production of wheat
equal to about 107,000 tons would constitute about 6.5% of the increase in
annual consumption in 1985 compared to 1977. Barley production would decline
under the Project, with higher value crops substituted for it. The economic
alternative to Project cereal production is to import. For cereals destined
to urban markets, this would also save the cost of transporting wheat from the
farm to the city.  The border price used in the economic analysis for cereals
destined to urban markets equals the c.i.f. price Casablanca, minus average
cost of transporting cereals produced in Morocco to the city. When adjusted
for projected relative world price changes by 1985, the results are economic
prices (a) for soft wheat 23% cheaper than the farmgate price paid by ONICL,
(b) for hard wheat 14% less than the farmgate price paid by ONICL, (c) for
barley 2% more than the farmgate price and (d) for maize 1% less than the
farmgate price. For cereals consumed on the farm or produced in deficit
1/   Converted to Dirhams at the shacLow exchange rate of DH4.3 = US$1.0.
This imported beef would cost US$2.5 per kg in its boneless state.



- 34 -
production areas, the economic alternative is import plus transport and
handling to these areas, resulting in an economic price above that for cereals
destined to urban areas. Farmgate prices are also considerably higher for
producers in deficit areas and for farmers not selling through ONICL. For
production not dcstined to urban markets, economic prices are estimated to be
39% less than the rural market producers' price for soft wheat, 21% less for
hard wheat, and 10% less for barley. The impact on the economic rate of
return is shown in paras 7.18 and 4.06.
7.08      Pulses.  About 37% of Moroccan production of pulses is exported,
primarily to EEC countries. The increasing potential for dry broad beans and
chick peas as a filler in manufactured foods is a possible future market for
Moroccan exports. ONICL buys and sells a small quantity of pulses. Most pro-
duction has been, and would continue to be, traded on local markets. Project
production would satisfy less than 1% of incremental Moroccan consumption
requirements through 1985. F.o.b. prices were used to value production of
pulses at farmgate in border prices. Due to an overvalued exchange rate and
taxes, farmgate prices average 8% less than the f.o.b. price adjusted for
handling and transport.
7.09      Sugar Beet.  Morocco is a large importer of sugar, and the alterna-
tive to the Project's production of sugar would be to import. Sugar beet
prices are fixed by Government, and since all production goes to processors,
the fixed price holds.  An increase in the real world price of sugar from an
average of US$0.179 per kg in 1977, to US$0.290 in 1982 (in 1977 prices) is
projected. To this is added transport and handling costs to obtain a border
price of DH1,505 per ton of sugar. When converted to sugar beet on the basis
of recoverable sugar content and adjusted for transport costs and the value of
by-products, the border price is computed at DH135/ton of sugar beet compared
to a domestic price of DHI16/ton. This border price is used to value sugar-
beet production in the economic analysis (para 7.18). Sugar beet producers
are implicitly taxed by Government price policy.
7.10      Ten sugar beet and sugar cane processors utilized 50% of their
380,000 ton capacity in 1976. The six sugar refineries utilized 92% of their
547,000 ton capacity in 1976. Sugar beet and cane production are increasing
at about 11% per annum, so the present under-utilization of processing
capacity is a temporary phenomenon.
7.11      Fruit and Vegetables.  Fruit and vegetable production is either
consumed on farm by producers, sold directly to wholesalers or retailers,
sold to canning or other processing enterprises, or sold to the public office
responsible for exporting (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation, OCE).
About 87% of the 210,000 ton cold storage capacity in Morocco is used to
store fruit and vegetables. There are 117 enterprises which have canning
operations, with a total capacity of 268,000 tons. Sixty percent of this
capacity was used in 1976. For the economic analysis, fruit and vegetables
are treated as exportables and hence valued at f.o.b. prices.



- 35 -
C. Marketing and Prices for Agricultural Inputs
7.12      Seed.  High yielding certiiied seed is obtained by farmers from
64 seed distribution outlets throughout Morocco which are overseen by a Public
Company (SONACOS). The price of cert:ified wheat seed is fixed by Government
at about 18% less than the border pri.ce, and additional subsidies are avail-
able for cooperatives. About 12% of cereal seeds used are high yielding
varieties; the rest is local seed. TEhe low use of high yielding seed results
partly from inadequate availability and inefficient distribution channels.
An increase in prices paid to seed producers and improved infrastructure for
seed storage and distribution would reduce this problem.  Sugar beet seed,
which is distributed by sugar factories, is subsidized by about 20% compared
to the border price.  Local seeds are used for pulses and barley.
7.13      Pesticides.  Pesticides are imported by several private distributors.
Import duties and other indirect taxess result in a farmgate price about 38%
above the border price adjusted for transport and handling.
7.14      Farm Machinery Investments and Machine Services.  Because of high
import duties and indirect taxes on imported agricultural machinery, the
border price of tractors adjusted for transport cost to the farmgate is 33%
lower than the farmgate price. These taxes are offset for some farms by
Government subsidies of about 30% of the domestic price of tractors purchased
by Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Farmers Associations. Individual farmers
do not receive these subsidies.
7.15      Fertilizers.  Fertilizers, except for phosphate, are imported and
processed by a public enterprise: FERTIMA. Phosphate based fertilizers are
processed and distributed by a Moroccan firm (Societe Cherifienne des Engrais,
SCE). Farmgate prices exceed border prices by 30% for imported fertilizers
due to indirect taxes. This is partly offset by a 10% subsidy paid to FERTIMA
and SCE. In addition, a 20% subsidy can be obtained by large farmers owning
more than 40 ha of land and willing to enter an agreement with Government in
which the farmer agrees to follow a bi-annual rotation. Farmers' groups can
obtain subsidies equal to 30% of domestic price. Small and medium farmers
receive no subsidy. The "Caisse de Compensation" paid DH50 million in subsi-
dies in 1977 to fertilizer importers and processors, and DH58.5 million to
farmers.
7.16      Labor.  The opportunity ccst of labor is estimated at about 50% of
the average wage rate, which is close to the value of subsistence consumption.
An alternative calculation, based on the percentage of labor employed per
month and on the average daily wage, yields an average opportunity cost of
unskilled labor equal to 30% of the daily wage. The higher cost is used in
the economic analysis of paras 7.18 and 4.06.



- 36 -
D. The Agro-Industry Component (Annex 4)
7.17      CNCA has already received loan applications from prospective agro-
industrial investors and CNCA has shown in its agro-industry subsector study
that it can expect viable agro-industrial loan applications amounting to about
DH130 million in investments per year. Application of the lending criteria
specified in paragraph 6.09 would permit CNCA to finance about 70% of these
enterprises, for a total investment of DH275 million estimated to be distri-
buted over the following subsectors:
% of Project Investment
In Agro-Industry
Artisanal Flour Mills                           15
Semi-Industrial Flour Mills                     15
Milk Pasturization                              12
Cold Storage                                     8
Animal Feed                                     30
Canning and Bottling                             5
Artisanal Olive Oil Trituration                  5
Other (date processing,
slaughterhouses)                               10
Total                                    100
The agro-industries financed under this Project component would generate value
added to the Moroccan economy by processing Moroccan products, and would
create rural non-farm employment. Cash flows projected for several project
types (animal feed, milk pasturization, canning, and data processing) indicate
them to be potentially viable undertakings financially. Additional reasons
for including the component in this Project are:
(a)  CNCA's useful promotional and technical assistance role
(para 6.11);
(b) CNCA's advantage over other lending institutions in aid-
ing agro-industry due to its close contact with and
accumulated knowledge about agriculture, and its dense
network of branch offices in rural areas which other banks
do not have; and
(c)  the strict lending criteria to be established under the
Project which assures that Project credit goes to rela-
tively small scale enterprises expected to be economically
viable (para 6.09).



- 37 -
E. Economic Analysis (Annex 8)
7.18       The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project is likely to be economically
viable for two reasons. Firstly, faced with a positive real interest rate and
the certainty that repayment of credit is necessary, borrowers will demand
credit almost exclusively for financially viable investments and will avoid
investments which are excessively risky (para 4.06). This results from the
borrower's knowledge that if his investment does not generate the resources
required for him to repay the loan, he may default on the loan, and CNCA's
collection procedures are such that he is certain to lose his property. CNCA's
lending norms for HQ/CRCA clients (number of hectares needed to obtain credit
for a tractor, number of hectares of forage needed for a livestock loan, lend-
ing criteria for agro-industries) help borrowers in making these decisions.
Secondly, financially viable investments are likely to be economically viable
in Morocco because price distortions facing agriculture are mutually offset-
ting. For example, effective taxes on labor use, fertilizers, mechanization,
and pesticides offset effective subsidies of milk and some other agricultural
commodities. This can be seen by comparing financial and economic rates of
return to the investments representedL in the farm models below (Annex 8).
Nevertheless, price distortions facing Moroccan agriculture are potential
impediments to an economically desirable allocation of resources. An under-
standing was reached with Government that it would review this issue with
upcoming Bank missions and that it discuss with the Bank the actions that it
proposes to take. A status report on the progress of these discussions would
be prepared by the Bank no later thari June, 1980. Financial rates of return
are estimated below as the value of incremental crop and livestock production
resulting from credit financed investment, net of input costs, debt service on
CNCA credit, and farmer equity investment. Market prices are used. Economic
rates of return value outputs and inputs which are tradable on world markets
at border prices (c.i.f. if importable, f.o.b. if exportable), adjusted for
handling and transport costs within Morocco. Outputs and inputs which are not
tradable on world markets (Moroccan ]abor, cement, draft animals, etc.) are
valued at opportunity cost or at the marginal economic cost of their supply
for Project purposes. Economic prices used were summarized in Sections B and
C above. Resulting rates of return are as follows:
Financial Rate   Economic Rate
Model Type /3                                          of Return.         of Return/2
Small farmer; well and pump                               37                 75
Small farmer; draft animals, small implements              9                 10
Cooperative; draft animals, small implements               9                 10
Small farmer; cross bred cows, stable                     29                 15
Cooperative; cross bred cows, stable                      31                 15
Medium farmer; pure bred cows, stable                      16                 15
Large farm; tractor, combine                               18                25
Large farm; tractor                                        10                60
Medium farm; well and pump                                 13                 50
/1   To the farmer's equity.
/2   To the Moroccan economy.
/3   These rates of return are projected, as compared to actual rates of
return reported for past agricultural credit Projects reported in para.
4.06.



- 38 -
The average economic rate of return on project financed investments, weighted
by the probable percentage of each investment category in total Project cost,
is 20%, excluding the agro-industry component.
7.19      The average rates of return reported above conceal large variations
between farms depending on particular agro-economic conditions, farmer manage-
ment ability, labor availability, rainfall, etc. Mechanization, irrigation
equipment, and wells generate a higher rate of return to Morocco's economy
than to farmers due to price distortions biased against agriculture. The
model representing small farmer investment in draft animals and small imple-
ments is only marginally viable indicating the low productivity of small farms
fragmented into micro parcels. For livestock producers, price subsidies
cause financial rates of return to exceed the rate of return to the economy,
although the economic rate of return is satisfactory. Milk price subsidies
may be causing over investment in livestock. However, for reasons given in
para 2.13, CNCA financed investment in livestock is an important element in
Government's strategy for livestock development which the Bank generally
supports. CNCA's strict lending criteria for livestock loans assure that
such investments undertaken by CNCA clients are likely to be economically
viable. The sensitivity of the overall rate of return to variations in key
variables such as investment costs, prices, and crop yields is as follows:
Overall Economic
Rate of Return
(%)
Basic estimate                                  20
Investment costs 20% higher                     16
Crop and livestock yields 20% lower             14
Investment costs 20% higher and crop
yields 20% lower                              10
Relative output prices 10% lower                17
F. Project Impact on the Target Group and Income Distribution
7.20      The second element of the justification is the social impact of the
project.  Paragraph 2.11 outlines the magnitude of the poverty problem in
Morocco, indicating that about 45% of Moroccan farm families live at or below
absolute poverty and are underemployed. One of the CNCA's principal objectives
has been to finance as many farmers as possible. Present and projected number
of CNCA clients are as follows:



- :39 -
1977       1982 /b
Number of CLCA clients /a                                       216,360   330,000
Number of CRCA clients                                            37,470    55,000
Number of farms receiving credit within Cooperatives
and Associations                                                70,000    90,000
Total CNCA clients                                               323,830   475,000
Number of Farms in Morocco                                    1,928,000 1,928,000
/a   A client is a farm having a debt to CNCA.
/b   Extrapolation of growth rate since 1974/1975.
About 40% of CNCA's clients presently live at or below the rural absolute
poverty level, and this ratio is projected to hold for the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project (excluding loans to Agro-Industry for which direct benefits
will probably go almost entirely to people living above the poverty level). 1/
About 15% of Moroccan farm families now living at or below the rural bsolute
poverty level are CLCA clients (have debt with CLCA). This percentage would
increase to about 20% under the project. The percentage of total CNCA credit
distributed by farm size is expected to evolve as follows:
% of Moroccan    % of CNCA    % of CNCA         % of CNCA
Farm Size         Farm Families    Clientele    Clientele    Disbursements /a
(ha)                                   1977)      (1982)      (1979/80-1981/82)
0                  23.4                0             0                0
0- 5                   56.5            34.2          40.0             13.0
5-10                   11.4            54.2          48.5             50.0
> 10                   8.6            11.6          11.5             37.0
Total                100.0           100.0         100.0            100.0
/a   Excluding agro-industry.
CNCA's lending criteria prohibit distribution of credit to farm families
having no land since land is required as a guarantee.  Also excluded are farms
having fiscal incomes less than DR100 (US$60). These holdings are not viable
farm units and most of the rural population in this group are salaried laborers
rather than full time farmers. The table indicates that smaller CLCA clients
obtain less credit per farm than larger clients, reflecting smaller farm size.
1/   The estimate of the proportion of CNCA clients living below the rural
absolute poverty level is based on aggregate CNCA statistics which show
average income for each CRCA/Headquarters client, and the fiscal income
of each CLCA client. Fiscal income has been updated to 1978 prices
using the CNCA estimate that actual net revenue equals 2.5 times fiscal
revenue.



- 40 -
The last column also reflects the likely distribution of Project benefits,
again unequal due to the inequitable distribution of land and of productive
potential. Constraints impeding increased credit going to the smallest
farmers were detailed in paras 2.10-2.15. Some of these constraints would be
removed during the Project by:
(a)  an expansion of CNCA's branch network giving additional small
farmers in isolated areas access to credit outlets (para 6.01);
(b)  publicity campaigns to inform farmers about the availability
and terms of credit;
(c)  more appropriate financing norms for small farmers (para 6.04);
and
(d)  the increasing monetization of the rural economy in which a
greater percentage of inputs are purchased rather than produced
on the farm, and more output is sold for cash. Credit provided
in the form of cash is used only by the farmer dealing in the
money economy. Several constraints to expansion of credit
activity among the rural poor are likely to continue, including
unequal distribution of land and fragmentation of farms into
micro-parcels on which profitable investment possibilities often
do not exist. The improvement of agricultural research and
extension could increase productive use of credit by small
farmers through the introduction of technical innovations.
Employment
7.21      Project investment would have an indirect impact on poor landless
farmers where it increases, rather than replaces, labor use. For the sample
of farms receiving credit under the Third Agricultural Credit Project, medium
and large farmer investments in livestock plantations, irrigation equipment,
and land improvement caused an increase in labor use, which was not offset
by the decline in labor use resulting from mechanization (para 4.04). The
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project is expected to directly create the follow-
ing number of manyears of employment (not including jobs saved by replacing
depreciated plant and equipment):
Manyears Employment    Manyears of
of Family Labor        Hired Labor
Livestock and Stables                            18,000               22,000
Draft Animals                                         °                    °
Wells, Pumps, Irrigation                          5,300               11,900
Plantations                                       1,800               15,500
Mechanization                                    -1,000              -18,000
Land Improvement                                 54,000                6,000
Total                                       78,000               37,400
This compares to the total rural labor force estimated at 3.1 million manyears
in 1979 of which only 60% is employed. About 30,000 people enter the rural
labor force each year. The total Project Cost (in 1979 prices) per job directly
created would equal about US$5,800.



- 41 -
Social Rate of Return Analysis
7.22      A social rate of return analysis for this Project is being under-
taken in the context of Bank sector work in Morocco, to be discussed with
Government. Social rate of return analvsis expands on economic analysis by
giving weight to the Project's impact on economic growth and income distri-
bution/i.   Using weights representing a preliminary assessment of
Government distribution and growth objectives, a social rate of return
of 14% has been estimated for the Project. Since this exceeds the social
rate of return expected from the marginal Government expenditure, estimated
at 6%, the Project as a whole is socially viable according to this criterion.
Preliminary analysis suggests that each investment item financed by CNCA is
socially viable taken individually, with the possible exception, in specific
cases, of combine harvestors. Combine harvestors, though showing an
average economic rate of return of 10%, may not be socially viable in
regions of Morocco where unemployed :Labor is abundant during harvest time
and in cases where incremental income to the farmer making the investment
is not saved or reinvested. This analysis will be completed in the context
of Bank agricultural sector work, and the implications discussed with
Government.
G. Project Risks
7.23      There are several risks, dlscussed in the conclusions and recommen-
dations of the OED Report on Agricultural Credit Programs/2, which could
affect the outcome of this Project.  The major risk is that of severe adverse
/1 The methodology used in deriving these weights is described in
Squirre, Lyn and van der Tak, Herman, Economic Analysis of Projects,
IBRD 1975. Assumptions and data used for the present analysis are
given in Annex 8.
/2 Report No. 1357 issued November :L6, 1976.



- 42 -
climatic conditions which occur about one year in every five, and which reduce
crop yields. Low crop yields would reduce farmer incomes, thus increasing
defaults on CNCA loans and reducing economic returns. Yield assumptions in
the farm models are based on average yields likely to be obtained in the
normal pattern of good and bad years by CNCA borrowers. Therefore, the eco-
nomic rates of return calculated for this Project are those most likely to
occur, but could be lower if yearly rainfall is less than average during the
Project period. Defaults would weaken CNCA financially but this risk is
lowered by Government's policy of covering CLCA losses. In bad years, CLCA
losses and hence Government outlays to CLCA would increase, declining in good
years. A second risk is of a change in Governnent agricultural policy; such
as prices, taxes, or subsidies. Changes could cause some Project investments
to become financially or economically nonviable. Such a shift is unlikely
during the Project period as the present period of financial austerity forces
Government to reduce agricultural and consumer subsidies, thus reducing price
distortions rather than increasing them. A third risk is possible deteriora-
tion in Government research, extension, animal health and other services.
Such a deterioration would slow down the rate of application of new technology,
particularly with respect to introduction of improved breed cattle and sheep,
improved animal shelters, and improved agricultural implements for small
farmers. Moroccan Agricultural Services are unlikely to deteriorate given
the past and present trend to slowly improve. As indicated above, more rapid
improvement of these services would permit credit to have an even more bene-
ficial impact than is predicted in this report. A fourth risk involves the
possibility that Government require CNCA to undertake costly programs or
finance non-viable undertakings. Several such undertakings (particularly
state and public companies operating in agriculture) are presently assisted
by CNCA and were excluded from the Project.  To minimize the negative finan-
cial impact of such an eventuality, loan covenants have been agreed to by
CNCA requiring an increase in financial charges when financial loss occurs
(para 6.07). Government imposed non-viable lending activities of CNCA would
continue to be excluded from Bank financed projects.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      To permit successful Project implementation, the Government agreed
during negotiations that it would:
(a) guarantee the debt service of the loan (para 5.10);
(b)  protect CNCA against losses resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange (para 5.10);
(c) provide or cause CNCA to be provided with adequate resources
for CNCA's own operations and for the credit operations
administered by CNCA on the Government's behalf (para 5.10);
(d)  permit CNCA to maintain a compensation and incentive
system for the benefit of its personnel equivalent to that
applicable in comparable institutions (para 6.02);



- 43 -
(e)  cover, bv means of subsidies, all losses incurred by the
CLCAs and all expenses incurred by CNCA with respect to
operations carried out by CNCA on behalf of the Government
(para 6.07);
(f)  take all steps necessary to enable CNCA to set interest
rates on its loans and on its deposits consistent with the
interest rate obligation entered into by CNCA (paras 6.07,
6.09);
8.02       Agreement was obtained from CNCA during negotiations that it would:
(a)  verify that agreed procurement procedures are followed
(para 5.11);
(b)  periodically adjust the financing ratio constraining CLCA
loan amounts on the basis of increases in prices for
investment goods; review with the Bank the results of the
new lending norms established for CLCA clients during
1978/79 and of the credit component of the Fes-Karia-Tissa
Project by July 31, 1980 with the object of establishing
new lending criteria ancl procedures for CLCA clients
(para 6.04);
(c)  supervise at least 5% of: the CLCA clients receiving subloans
under the Project through periodic visits to randomly chosen
farms, to ensure that thie proceeds of subloans are being
used properly and that satisfactory progress is being made
in completing and using investments (para 6.05);
(d)  change interest rates and/or fees on its agricultural
loans so as:
(i)  to enable it to cover its operating expenditures
and interest payments less Government subsidy of
CLCA operations;
(ii) to make adequate provisions for bad or doubtful
loans;
(iii) to accumulate adequaate general reserves; and
(iv) to prevent the Government subsidy of CLCA expenses
from exceeding 30% of these expenses (paras 6.07).
(e)  for agro-industry:
(i) establish subproject evaluation criteria as indicated
in para 6.09;



- 44 -
(ii) submit to the Bank for approval the first five agro-
industry projects in five differnt industries approved
by CNCA and, thereafter any agro-industry project with
an investment cost exceeding DH2.5 million (para 6.09);
(iii) establish lending rates equal to those applied by other
institutions lending to agro-industry, but in no case
less than 9% for long-term loans, 8.5% for medium term
loans (para 6.09);
(iv) create an agro-industry evaluation unit as indicated
in para 6.10;
(v)  by December 31, 1980 enter into a formal arrangement
with ODI (Office de Developpement Industriel) which
permits CNCA to forward loan applicants to ODI's small
industry technical assistance group (para 6.11);
(f)  maintain in operation its monitoring and evaluation system,
and undertake a Completion Report within six months after
Project closing (para 6.13); and
(g)  maintain proper accounts, have its accounts, and the state-
ment of expenditures which are sent to the Bank, audited by
an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank certified copies of audited financial statements
and other financial information requested by the Bank (para.
6.16).
8.03       Signature of Loan and Guarantee Agreements by CNCA and Government
with IFAD and KfW would be a condition of Bank loan effectiveness.  The
failure to declare the KfW loan effective by March 1, 1980 would constitute
a special condition of suspension (para 5.10).
8.04      The Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$70 million to
CNCA for a term of 14 years with 4 years of grace.



KINCDOM OF HOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Nuaber of Objecta Financed by CRCA Nedius-Terr Loans
To Medium and Large Farmers. Couperatives. and Pre-Cooperative Groupa
Actual /a                          Estimate        Prolected for Prolect Period
Unit         1974/75        1975/76    1976/77         1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980181       1981/62
Tractors and Attachment                    Number             558            627         770            833        1,120         1,177         1,245         1,324    Tracteurs et Accesoires
Combines                                   Number              39            166         176            345          319           360           411           473    Moissonneuses Batteuses
Trucks and Pickups                         Number             174            276         480            556          495           562           639           734    Cions et Pick-Ups
Purp                                       Number             493            495         755           463         1,040         1.050         1,100         1,150    Pompes
Number uf Wells                            Number             438            440         668           410           860           940         1,020         1,110    Nombre de Puits
Draft Animals                              Nunber           5,438          6,373       6,000         5,760         4,697         5,356         6,127         7,026    Animaux de Trait
Imported Pure Breed Cuva                   Number             707          1,450      1,490          2,322         3,090         3,090         3,090         3,090    Vaches de Race Pure importees
Pure Breed Cuvs, louallyPurchased          uum.er             595          1,220      1,250          1.948         1,645         2,040         2,510         3,085    Vaches de Race Pure, Achetees Localement
Cross Breed Cows                           Number             707          1,480       1,520         2,369         1,680         2,080         Z,560         3,145    Vacihs de Race Croisee
Local Breed Coàs                           Nasbar           4,153          8,520       8,740        13,620         6,430         7,965         9,810        12,050    Vaches de Race Locale
Sheep                                      Number          20,071         41,180     42,250         65,842        45,740        56,675        69,790        85,590    Ovin
Stables, Sheep Stalle, Storage               m2           153,000        158,665    235,475        298,390       304,360       310,445       316,600       323,000    Etables, Bergeries, Magasins et Autres
Batiments
New Plantations (excluding augar)          Hectares           313            575         560            563        6,790         7.320         8,030         8,680    Nouvelles Plantations (excluant le Sucre)
Initial Plantation Maintenance             Hectarea         1,794          3,295      3,210          3,227         3,330         5,700         8.090        10,500    Entretien Initial des Plantations
Laad I.prosem.nt                           Hectares         6,187          6,320       6,17J        11,420         9,420        10,070        10,99)        11,990    Amelioratiton do Sol
)isk Harro.J                               Number             436            490        615            665           896           942           996         1,059    Charrues a Disque
Plows                                      Nuaber             124            195         385           417           560           588           622           662    Charrues
/a  Ysar 1915/76 was  8stLsated by CNCA. Years 1976/77 and 1)77/13 were estitated                          /a  Les chiffres pour 1975/76 ont ete estimes par la CNCA.  Les annees 1976/77
on the basis of the change in disburous3.iti fir each object, deflared b1 the                              et 1977/78 ont ete estimes sur la base des changements dans les deboursements
pci   increase for the object (table norms).                                                               d. chaque objet, muins l'augmentation du prix de l'objet.
Jan.ary 1979



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Forecast of Physical Quantities Financed by the CLCA
Unlit                               Estimiated                                     Proa ect Period
1974175    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79           1979/80    1980/81       1981/82
Draft aniimals              Nuwiber          16,295      14,115      18,765      18,765      21,320        25,000       28,000      32,500 Anima'ux de Trait
Plantations                 Hectares            710         705         265         265         300            305         305         310 Plantations
Land improveinent           liectares        16,745      14,325      26,290      26,290      29,950        35,640       42,410      50,470 Amielioration du Sol
Pure bred cows              Nuisber           2,000       3,500       4,000       3,610       3,860         4,790        5,290       5,860 Vaches de Race Pure
Cross bred cows             Number            2,000       3,000       4,000       4,000       3,390          5,950       7,310       9,145 Vaches de Race Croisee
Local bred cows             Nuiwber           9,200      14,700      17,450      17,500      12,000        22,B00       28,090      34,475 Vaches de Race Locale
Sheep                       Nuaber           52,000      98,000    125,000    125,000    130,000          162,450      199,750    203,000 Ovin
Pumps                       Number            1,155       1,470       1,625       1,625       1,845         2,060        2,290       2,560 Pompes
Wells                       Number            1,015       1,295       1,430       1,430       1,625         1,810        2,020       2,250 Puits
Coristruction               Meters2        222,000    317,000    398,500    398,640    453,000            525,000    610,000       707,000 Construction
rJ 
January 1979



- 41 -
XI7)3DI 01 1 3R1»COT NlEX 2
T.bL. I
STAFF  5PPr1CA155L 70810T 078TRC
70vil8 AOR It7T178M  CUI 75 ROZT
CIICA M           Ldt . Loon l-îbanemts Dv ObliC
Cr-7th a.t.
AtMuI                          Etcmasd                P.olenc Per1ld                 94u6    1t-19;9-
1974-1975    1975-1976   1976-1977   1977-197%   1978-1979    1979-199O   1980-1991   1981-1982   1978-1979   1981-1982
_ !~~~~~~~~~7 r..                           FI r.., a)
Frettas  and tiret n-ormeCr, (11                                                                                                                                         Moyen' et Rrande PemcCere  Into,
Tractons                            12,150       14,331       17,062       17,S23       20,530       23,005       26,049       29,434        13.0         15.0           Trtocevr
1,SO5       4,847         2,038      12,523        15,701       19,197       23,740       29,394        a8 0         26.0           Mn-a.o.a. .es-necle. aee
Traoaonrt, Antor tonoseeh-           1,947      10,091        15,291       21,611      25882        31,735        9,47L5     49,055         37.0         30.0            terlal de Tr, P.p     e  Aotres
Pompe, 0.11,, Inttgeîîat   10,833      11,810        15,059       12,975       14,375       15,540       17,015       18.682         4.5         11.3             ae5    de Po-P.Se
Eqaîpsers
onalo Anomale                        3,776        3,360        4,697        4,991        5,771        6,308        7,412        8,467        20.0         16.0           Anian de  -rsir
coneato, ForF g`3, Pouîclt.          6 644       19 260       15 4305      12206        37,274       42,435       4,6467       56,395        24.0         16.0           Anlv  de Rent., Fors.., Vola-Ile
Coen .coo                       9,777       11.011       11,706       19,208       22.829       28,335       38.759       35,966        28.0         18.2           C...esrttcsn
Flornetoona                            745 -      1,486        1,779       2,089        14.525       20,511       27,326      34,780       145.0          36.5           PLFaa-dUtWn
Lbnd Tmpnont                         1.179        1.307       1436        2,922         3.187      3,380        32625         3,a7s         34.2          9.0           aelt-rataon da Sol
Total                         _5029          7           _ 84 503    125 417      160074       188.453      22J000       266j72          7.5         210                 Totl
Aonantoo Relorm Consaratives                                                                                                                                             C          -ooînee de la tRo-e  dorotre
4,163        3,128        7,047        8,257        6,648        9,166        9,a45       10530         40.0          9.1           Tractur,
tannions            2,635        2,130       ~~~~~        ~~~~1,4  6,314  7,826      7,4          7,96          ,54                       9.1           Mistu.....e.. ac...   e
Tranepo-r, otter - qnnptc           2,768        41 67        65291        6 909       117044         8,0%         6,678       9,279        303           -3.. 3                       Transport et Autres
Pompe, Aesle. Iigatton                  S           170       5,508           882          972        1,033        1,110        1.,i4       85.0          9.0            MaSteiel 0e Pompage
Eqoop sean
ra-ft Ansa                             191        2.,412       1.416        1.457        1,675        1,788        1.910        2,040        _9.0          7.0           Ai3a.. de Tr-nt
64578      2,677        1,.84       11.171       11,891       12,632       13,535       14,479        53.0          9.0                   Ian R          na- - ovln
3.941       1,463        9,120        9,713        10,5%4       11,535       12,04       12,986        98.0           9.0           Cn  rntn
LancacL? a                           773        15 395       92750        2,915        3,089        3,502        3,756        4,014        24.5         11.3 5lagcasons
Aotk-n  ca.pcoî                        338        2.701        1,945          953          952          926          91û          893       41.0           0.0           Farde de Raimest
Total                          15.492       21,243       44.878       48.571       52,469       55 873       59 NO        63.873       235.0          9.0                Totl
e-Ca..os..o -ve GrnouP                                                                                                                                                   Orar_tst  Prs-Cnotertete
Tracton                                727          609           61)       3 003        3 300        3,50Z        3,728        3,938        58.0         8a,                t
0'I'.  Eq-P...t199                        2I1           285                                                                                                    A,ceReec
qarvee_ors                              10          345        1.067          751          826          674          932          965        33.0          6.3           Monsenee,ea-na  enues
Total                             936        1 184        I 176        3 754        4 126        4 376        4.660        4 932        5.            6.5                Toal
Sbal Foera (CLCA Clirons>)                                                                                                                                               Petit  F-mer. (Cllnt. da- CLCAs)
SL-aIl Eqnop .t                      1,435        1,663          893        1,119        1,335        1,350        1.820        2,148       -8,0          .9.0           Psst aentel
P,mp.u, OeIls, Irrc1srco.           1,669       11,962       17,043       23,534-      27,647        12,613       38.898      46,410        32.0          21.5           Me..rc..    8e Pompaos
EqutpL nt
TraIn ojoimala                      11,017       10,159       16,895       27,275       33,792       40,866       50,070       61,510       49,5          2350           Antic de Toast
îcoesoook              21,461      ~~~~~~40,175  go.343       75,103       92.1         157,835     158,815      153.830        36.0         21.5            uim4e   de Reste
c9,7        427,576      4°3,783      739,65        497680       60 930       75,385       93,3Z0        22,0         26.0           Csternctîom
Plancotooos                 ~~~~          ~~130  79     36          449          121          387          670          770        98.0         11.0           Pîentacî...
Land Taproomeent                    1,064          958        2,081       8,047       10,334        12,920       16,320      20,620       i60.0         29.0            lmaîîotatîon du Sol
Kartd.Tîsea Projens -                  -            -            -            -            -          5 317 7J690l              3 443                     _              ProIes raa-Tt.ua
Total                          p9,399       95,292    161.074        174.3310    21  517       262 6t5      319 655      387 043        31.5         24,0                Tot-l
_                                      262~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.66105 "    ü
Agro- Idneutro                             -        -     .      ,,,                           -         44.9                       5985 4    -=               -    A     mro- lndaus tîe
Cr-ad Tot.1                   1u816       195,222      291 631      352 072      432,186      558.009      65396,9      766,918        30 5          4 240Gd Intel
Prote Iode.                    100.0        108.6        122.2        133.3        145.3        155.5         167,9       181.3          10.0         7.5                Indice d.u Prîi
tAT, t an llvaston, o rot557 f e m l ,beîters and biltdiîe- for stotge                 t            t  45T p.at Ise gniî-s du reste, 557, peur Iee ooetntccaeu  et magaIn-, trt8ot e
osioltt-ter  onedit ors Ltlnde dIt Laa--Kerîa-TIoe  ban bY W-rld Bas.                                   -Ys   t        -as t.Mi.u das  1- Pret de 1l  8IRd pour 1e P.o3.t Poe-tatca-Tleea
cnootem   t*t Lotlodei la n4 t    s Poorth t Agnl th ra  Credit  rjiet                            /4   aCànm   l.. it   tes           e         l Qoatîil   L3jc du Cnsdic dAr le
tstonntunm   redît  tont  ta tran  ent  Lrnt   upa.aoealsI.                                        (...sditacuttn    ro  e.oaes    tseuecpteeennt
a6rtonltaire, 85tsne--  and tarai htalolg).                                                             lsgnlalters. 0I  sert.. et le logsat trai9)
Joaoory 1579



- 48 -
K   DOM OF MOROCCO                                          A.NEX Z
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pro1ect Cost
Foreign
Local      Exchange      Total       Foreign
Number       Cost         Cost         Cost        Exchange
-No.--       -- -          DH    -------           -  2---
Tractors And Attachments                    3,745       73,910      110,920     184,830          60       Tracteurs et Accessoires
Combine Harvestors                          1,245       58,115       87,195     145,310          60       Moissonneuses Batteuses
Trucks and Pick-Ups                         1,935 )
Disk Rarrows                                3,000 )Cover Cropa
117,250     117,250      234,500         50
Plows                                       1,875 )                                                       Charrues
Other Equipoent                              -    )                                                       Autre Matériel
Pumps                                      10,210       60,235       25,835      86,070          30       Pompes
Wells and Small Irrigation                   -         112,280       48,160     160,440          30       Puits et Petite Hydraulique
Imported Cattle                            21,000       12,035     108,665      120,700          90       Bétail Importi
Locally Bred; Imported Origin              11,850       66,435       44,304     110,740          40       Race Locale; d'Origine Importée
Cross Breed Cattle                         23,565      103,955       19,935     123,890          16       Bétail de Race Croisée
Local Breed Cattle                         89,945      202,630            0     202,630           0       Bétail de Race Locale
Sheep                                     610,120      269,760            o     269,760           °       Ovin
Poultry and Forage                           -           6,980       6,980       13,960         50        Volaille et Fourrage
New Plantations (ha)                       25,000       35,025       35,025      70,005          50       Plantations Nouvelles (ha)
Initial Plantation Maintenance (ha)        24,300       46,895       20,255      67,150          30       Entretien Initial des Plantations (ha)
Stables, Sheepfolds, Stores, Other                                                                        Etables, Bergeries, Magasins,
('000m2)                                2,792     317,875      212,105      529,980         40           Autres ('000m2)
Land Improvement (ha)                     161,570       60,780       26,070      86,850          30       Amélioration du Sol (ha)
Draft Animals                             104,000      258,170            0     258,170           0       Aniacux de Trait
Agro-Industry                                -         137,400      137,400     274,800          50       Agro-Industrie
Xonitoring and Evaluation                    -           2,000        2,000       4,000          50       Systeme de Suivi et Evaluation
Working Capital                              -           4.970            0       4,970           O       Fonds de Roulement
Total                                           1.946.700   1.002,100   2.9483000            34           Total
January 1979



0104100 0F tDRtOCCO
STAFP APPRAISAL RUPORT OF TIP
FOURTH7 ADRIG0LIWU0   CE6IIT PROJB`CT
CIJCA Cli.t                 Coootr.aLvoo ad Fre-Caoto.ttve                2kCA/HQ Cltl ta                             Total
9tb-   "ov ,nCnt  CYC6                Sub-  Covor  t                        SIIC  Sub-  G -vettrt  CYCA           Sb-  Coven_nt   CFCA
Rorro.bore Grant    Loo.      T.Otl   .orr.or         Grat  ln      Total  -rrovor   Grant       Lon      Total b7ryver-  Grant         L.0.      Toal
T,ortora                                -        -         -        -      10,200       21,850   40.660     72,710    33.660  _     78.460   112.120   43,860    21,850    119,120   184.830   T-t-tur
Ca.nbi -BolHaloro                                -         -        -       6.710    8,400   26,770   41.880    31,050        -     72,380  103,430    37.760     8,400    99,150   145,310       onnoaaa Betteuaa
Tr-dko, Plo-l, OHrra,                2,200    7,800    5,500    15,500    6,520    14,660   26,020    47,200    51,506       -    120,300   171,800   60,220    22,460    151,820   234,500   Calooa, Covor C-op.,
Otchor fqclpt ot                                                                                                                                                                               8003.0 TquS - ot
12,640      -      29,500   423140       -        -         -        -      13,180      -      30.750   43.930    25,830       -      60,240   86,070   IPo--
alrla .od S_ll ilrri0tio             37,970      _      88,430  IZ6.400     1,420      -       3.330    4,750     8.790       -     20,500   29,290   48,180        _      112,260   160,440  PFto
IaFP-tld Cattle                      19,970      -      46,100   65,890    2,030    2,550    8,120    12,700    12,640        -     29,470   42,110   34,460      2,550    03,690   120,700   Vo.... d. Rat Pora Iorte.
Loxl PFre Br-d CaIll                 19,970      -      46,100   65,û90    2,940       -       6,760     9,720    10.560      -     24,570   35.130    33,290       -       77,450   110,740   Vadlu da  nc..  ort- Ina      - a H-roc
Cro-  Br-d Cotîlo                    27,600      -      64,320   91.920    2.070       -       4.830    4,90      7,540             17.530   75,070    37.220       -      866.730   123,890   IcprFtl BayOn CroS-e
Local br-d C-ttl                     45,140      _    105,115   150,260     3,410      -       7,915    11,325    12,330            2,8.720   41,050   60,880       -      141,750    202,630   0hoptol DovIn de Rae Local
SIrOp                    ,           59.460      _    138,570   198,050    4,660       -      IO,B40    15,500   16.880       -     39,330   56,210    81,030               188,730    269,760  Ch.pt.1 Ovsn d. Bc. I.1
Chîi.k.  ond F-og                           -              -        -         910              2,110     3,020    3,2bO       -      7.660   10,940    4.190        -        9,770    13,960    VoînîlIa et FoorroSo
900 Plartartona                         800              2,020    2,900    2,405       -       5.615     8,020   17,770       -     41,360   59.130    21,045       -       49,005    70,050   Cr..tio ..  PlantatIon.
111FIPl tolooa Mo.ntnnUCb               -                  -        -       2,405      _       5,610    6,015   17,775        _     41,360   59,135    20,165       _      46.985   67,150   RotrOOlto d Flantollno
St b,1., Shnd., Storoto, ttc        103,721      -    241,550   345,270    15,550      -      36,155    51,705    39,945     _      93,060   133.005  159.215       _      370,765   5Z9,980    Mtabl..,  rlermoîn, Hagnî-no
Lond loprov-- t                      21,420      -      49,890    71,310      -                  -         -      4.,f7             10,870   15.540    26,090       _                 8,85    dAalaor .tlne du Sol
Drat An1D .r                         65,470      -    152,505   217,965    2,470       -       5,715     8,105    9,630       -     22,380   32,010   77,565        _      180,605   258,170  AnS      A. Trait
Ato-Ir.lootry                          -        -         -        -         -        -         -         - -  -  -     -                             137.400             137,400  274,000    Âoro-ladoatrte
9o,,îtorlo8aod Ovolontlon               -        _         -        -         _        -         -         -        _         -        -         _        -                  4,000    4.000 QQ1Q  at E-1vnol-ao
llorkiO  Capitol                                 -                                      4     LQ5                                                                   740      2 730    4 970   Fond. db  Rool_nt
Tot.l                           4161 100   .L_    6          3930 5w   65_200   48 200  1932200  30600   2120O                  678,700  969.90Q   9Q900   _ 56,00  1.902 900 2 94b. 00        Totol
29.b      0.6      69.6    100.0      21.3      15.7      63.0    100,0      30.0      0.0    70.0       100.0    30.9       1.9      67,2     1.W o       
J-ry 19/S



KIN(:DOM OF lIUROCCO
S'IAFF APPRAISAL REPORI OF THiE
FOURI'II ACRICUIlTIRAI. CREDIT PROJECI
CNCA Sources and Uses ut Fu.ds for the Projecî-
(DII'000)
Total_
US$'0O0
_______ _  _1979-1980   1980-1981   1981-1982    Dii'û00   Equivalent                      __-
USES OF FUNDS                                                                                                     EMPLOIS
Project Ioan Dishurseseurs,                                                                                       Debourseme-t du Pret-projet,
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                         Systeme de suivi
System/2                                 559,342      655,302       768,251    1,982,896       495,724            et d'evaluation
Other Resource lUses                                                                                              Auztres Emplois de Ressources
Short Te,m Loane                         609,942       713,471      829,453   2,152,886        538,216            Prets Court Terme
Buildings                                  5,925         6,913        7,713        20,551        5,138            Constructions
Debt Repayaient (Prin,cipal)              60,716       86,674        88,295      235,685        58,912            Remboursemunt de la  Dette
Operatit,n Charges                       141,149       M7,640       218,918       537,257      134,314            Couts Operationnels
Cash Iccreases                             5,000         5,000        5,000        15,000        3,750            Augmentation Monetairr
Accounts Payable                            1,356     - 1,814         2,28          5,459      _    _             Comptes de Crediteurs
Subtotal                             824,088      991,512    1,151,668   2,966,838         741,704                Sous Total
TOTAL USES OF FUNIIS                       383430   1646 814   1 919 919   4.949.734   I 237 428                  TOTAL EMPLOIS
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                                  RESSOURCES
Recovery of L.a-s on Project                                                                                      Recouvrement des Prets du
Related Items                            477,811       576,493      675,259    1,729,134       432,278            Projet
Short Tcrm L.,an Recovery                  587,155       683,143      796,342   2,066,640        516,660          Recouvrement des Frets a Court Ternes
Other Resoorces                                                                                                   Autres Ressources
Drawings ou- Previous IBRD Loans         (40,893)         -            -          (40,893)    (10.223)            DebsouesemenL Illega  Fret BIRD
Increase In Deposits                     (29,702)      (50,000)    (50,000)   (129,702)    (32,426)               Augmentation des Depots
Increase in Rediscounting Facilities(130,000)    (103,529)   (115,982)   (349,511)    (87,378)                    Augmentation
Miscella&ueoua (recovery of CLCA                                                                                  Divers (recouvrement des pertes
losses, liqsuidation, etc).            (15,774)    (17,954)    .2Q26)          (53.854)    (13,463)               des CLCAs, liquidation, ctc.)
Subtotal                            216,369       171,483       186,108      573,960       143,490                Soua Total
Additional Finance Needed covered by:                                                                           Ressources Additionnelles:              H .
IBRD Loan                                (49,288)   (104,130)   (126,580)   (280,000)    (70,000)                 Pret 1BRD
lFAO Credit                              (17,600)    (37,185)    (45,210)   (100,000)    (25,000)                 Credit IFAD
t;FW Loan                                (35,207)      (74,380)     (90,420)   (220,000)    (50,000)              Fret KEW
TOTAL SOURCES OF FONDS                   1.383.430   1.646.814    1 919    4.949.734    1.23?7428                 TOTAL RESSOWRCES
/I Encludes sources and uses of resources for non-project
medium-term lending by CNCA.
/2  Tie difference between this subtotal asd total CNCA
ssedlure-tera diabsrsemeuit shown in Annex 2, Table 1, is
ttie cost of the monitoring as,d evaluation system wricih
is added here.
March 1979



ANNEX 2
- 51 -                      Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICILTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(UIs$ '000)
Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                      Disbursement              Disbursement
Quarter Ending                       During Quarter           At End of Quarter
FY80
December 31, 1979                      3,000                        3,000
March 31, 1980                         5,600                        8,600
June 30, 1980                          5,800                       14,400
FY81
September 30, 1980                     4,800                      19,200
December 31, 1980                      5,000                       24,200
March 31, 1981                         5,800                       30,000
June 30, 1981                          5,700                       35,700
FY82
September 30, 1981                     6,700                      42,400
December 31, 1981                      6,900                      49,300
March 31, 1982                         6,900                       56,200
June 30, 1982                          6,900                      63,100
FY8 3
September 30, 1982                     4,900                      68,000
December 31, 1982                      2,000                      70,000
March 1979



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                         Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A. Annexes circulated under Yellow Cover
Annex 4: Agro-Industry Component
Annex 5: Agr_cultural Prices
Annex 6: Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, and Financial Analysis
Annex 7: Study on the Impact of Medium-Term Agricultural Loans on Farmer
Income
Annex 8: Economic and Social Analysis, and Representative Farm Models
Annex 9: Statistical Tables from Agricultural Sector Memorandum
B. Other Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl: Five Volume Fourth Agricultural Credit Project Preparation Report
(General Economic Situation, CNCA lending activity, rural housing,
financial analysis, Agro-industry Sector Study)
B2: CNCA's "Rapport D'Activité" for years 1973-1977
B3: Supervision Reports for the Third Agricultural Credit Project
B4:  Project Brief of August 1978 on the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project
C. Material on Morocco's Agricultural Sector
Cl: Special Report on Morocco's Agricultural Sector (prepared by
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project Appraisal Mission), January 1979
C2: World Bank, Morocco, Survey of the Agricultural Sector and Prospects
for the Development of Rainfed Areas; Report No. 1395a-MOR,
March 16, 1977
C3: Reports prepared by Morocco's Ministry of Agriculture:
-   '"Analvse des Structures du Sheptel-.
-   Varloits volumes of "Statistiriues Agricoles'(1969-1976).
-   "Plan Laitier", December 1975
-   "Productions Animales", August 1978
-   "Le Marché des Produits Agricoles", October 1977
-   "Le Développement du Secteur Agricole", September 1978 (The "Transition"
Plan).



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
C4:  Evaluation of Range Management Practices, Washington State University,
August lJ77.
C5:  USAID, Dryland Agriculture Applied Research, March 2, 1978.
C6:  FAO/IBRD CP: "Report of the Livestock Reconnaissance Mission to
Morocco", March 1978.
D.   Material on Morocco's Industrial Sector
Dl:  "Etude d'Identification et d'Evaluation des Possibilités
d'Investissements Industriels", Dar Al-Handasah Consultants, August 1978.
D2:  "Aperçu sur Quelques Secteurs de l'Activité Agro-Industrielle au Maroc",
October 1978, CNCA.
D3:  Office Pour le Développement Industriel:
- "Rapport d'Activité", Département Agro-Industriel, November 1978;
"Fiches Projets", October 1L979.
D4:  Ministry of Agriculture, "Aperçu sur les Principales Activités
Agro-Industrielles", May 1976.



