Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  L       Cg   PY
Report No. P-2535-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (CNCA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 10, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00       DR 4.0
DH 1.00   =   US$0.25
Fiscal Year:     Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE           Banque Nationale pour le D4veloppement
Economique (Moroccan Industrial Development
Bank)
CLCA           Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole (Local
Agricultural Credit Bank)
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CRCA           Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Credit Bank)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural
Development
KfW            Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA).
Guarantor:           The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:              US$70 million.
Terms:               Amortization 14 years including four years grace at
7.9 percent interest.l/
Project
Description:         The project aims to (i) improve the standard of living of
about 475,000 of Morocco's 1,928,000 farm families, (ii)
contribute to growth of agricultural production and to a
decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food, (iii)
create about 115,000 manyears of rural employment, (iv)
generate value added from agro-industrial production,
and (v) expand CNCA's capacity as an agricultural credit
institution. The Project would do this by financing
farm investments through CNCA during the period September
1979 to August 1982, including (A) investments by small
farmers with incomes below 1.6 times the absolute rural
poverty level, (B) investments by Agrarian Reform Coopera-
tive and Farmers' Associations, (C) investments by medium
and large farmer clients, and (D) agro-industry invest-
ments. CNCA's monitoring and evaluation system would also
be strengthened. About 40 percent of beneficiaries are
expected to be small farmers whose present income falls
beneath the absolute rural poverty level. The major
Project risk is that of abnormally adverse weather condi-
tions which would reduce crop yields and the Project's
rate of return.
1/   These terms are justified on Project grounds.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost                                               US$ Million
Estimates:                                         Local      Foreign     Total
Agricultural Machinery                         33.0        49.5       82.5
Wells, Pumps, Irrigation Equipment             43.1        18.5       61.6
Transport and Other Equipment                  29.3        29.3       58.6
Cattle and Sheep                              165.4       45.0       210.4
Stables, Sheep Folds, Storage                  79.5        53.0      132.5
Plantations                                    20.5        13.8       34.3
Land Improvement                               15.2         6.5       21.7
Draft Animals                                  64.6         0.0       64.6
Agro-Industry                                  34.3        34.4       68.7
Other Farm Investment                           1.3         0.0        1.3
Monitoring and Evaluation                        .5         0.5         1.0
Total                                       486.7      250.5       737.2
Of which Price Contingencies                   45.8        23.6       69.4
Of which Taxes                                 52.0          -        52.0
Financing Plan:                                       CNCA Lending
Sub-             CNCA                             Total
Borro-  Govern-   Own                      Total Project
Category               wers    ment    Funds  IBRD  IFAD  KFW  CNCA    Cost
-----------------------US$ Million--------------------
PART
A.  Small Farmers           104.0     2.0   163.0   29.9  25.0  24.5 242.4  348.4
B. Cooperatives and
Associations          16.3    12.0    32.5    8.7   0.0   7.1  48.3   76.6
C. Medium and Large
Farmers               72.8      0.0   128.7   22.6   0.0  18.4 169.7  242.5
D.  Agro-Industry            34.3     0.0    26.0    8.3   0.0   0.0  34.3   68.7
E. Monitoring and
Evaluation             0.0      0.0     0.5    0.5   0.0   0.0   1.0    1.0
Total              227.4    14.0   350.7   70.0  25.0  50.0 495.7  737.2
Estimated
Disbursements:                       FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83
----------- US$ Million --------
Annual              14.4      21.3     27.4        6.9
Cumulative          14.4      35.7     63.1       70.0
Rate of Return:      Economic Rate of Return:    20 percent.
Social Rate of Return:       14 percent (see para. 59).
Appraisal Report:   "Appraisal of a Fourth Agricultural Credit Project,
Morocco," No. 2426-MOR, dated April 30, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of $70 million to help finance CNCA's
medium- and long-term credit program.  The loan would have a term of 14 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.  The pro-
ceeds of the loan would be onlent to project beneficiaries for up to 12 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest on the agricultural credit subloans
at the prevailing rates for agriculture in Morocco and on the agroindustry
subloans at prevailing rates for small scale industry. Joint financing is
expected for the program by the International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) through a $25 million loan to CNCA, and by the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) through a German Deutschmark 94 million loan (equivalent
to about $50 million) to CNCA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic mission
which visited Morocco in February/March 1978 was followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978. A basic economic report is under preparation;
preliminary findings and conclusions of these missions are reflected in the
following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco completed the return towards a constitutional mon-
archy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over the Western Sahara
issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and national elections
between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties with platforms
stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections in the larger
cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents supported Government
candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141 seats out of 264 in the
National Assembly. With the new Government formed in October 1977, both the
Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since 1963, and the Mouvement
Populaire whose main support is in the Berber population returned to political
responsibility. The Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare and
implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives set
out in the 1973-77 Development Plan. A new Cabinet formed in March 1979 is
expected to pursue the same policies.
1/   This part is substantially the same as paragraphs 2 to 16 of the
President's Report No. P-2519-MOR on a Loan for a Village Electrifica-
tion Project, dated April 26, 1979.



- 2 -
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly
unbalanced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Rapid growth of investments
and imports, carried over from 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues reached
an all-time high, and despite some Government restrictions, did not slow down,
while the world demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate,
recovered only moderately. At the same time, efforts to increase budgetary
savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in investment and
military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced again a large
resource gap (21 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (19 percent of
GDP). To cover these, it sharply increased external borrowing to $1.9
billion (commitments), from $909 million in 1976 and $780 million in 1975;
most were from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's
net foreign assets stayed at a low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by
year's end).  On the domestic side, external borrowings fueled monetary
expansion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose 12.5 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous 2 years.
5.        By and large, the Government has succeeded in regaining control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Investment has since been reduced by
an estimated 25 percent in real terms, and so has external borrowing which
at $1.3 billion of new commitments was, however, still large and mostly on
commercial terms. The Government has achieved these improvements through
budgetary austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint
in current spending and some tax increases; it applied selective import
restrictions and controls on private credit preserving as much as possible
the growth momentum of private sector output and exports. A good agricultural
crop in 1978 helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in construction
activity largely resulting from cuts in public investment plans; overall, GDP
grew by an estimated 4 percent in real terms in 1978.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gaps and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government has introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives are to further reduce
the budget and current balance of payments deficits, and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popula-
tion groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria has been postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth in
the private sector have been strengthened. Recently, the Government agreed
with the IMF on a short-term financial rehabilitation program for 1979. This
program calls for continued limitation of budgetary expenditures, domestic
credit expansion and new external borrowing, while maintaining selective
import restrictions and credit controls favoring productive private activi-
ties. It is aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit by 15 percent, and
narrowing the current balance of payments deficit by more than 30 percent.
Assuming harvests are equal to those of 1978 and phosphate exports increase by



- 3 -
6 percent in quantity and 7 percent in value, real GDP growth in 1979 again
may still not exceed 4 percent. Gross official reserves would stay around 1.5
months of imports.
7.        While the interim measures may be effective in re-balancing the
economy, because of the short-term constraints on exports and savings, they
might cause a rise in social pressures. The Government is therefore anxious
to resume the more dynamic social policy stance which characterized Moroccan
development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation of the 1981-85 Plan has
begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms which are needed if
an early resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is to be
achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I reflect the Government's
keen concern to avoid a liquidity crisis in the next two to three years.
They assume sharp policy adjustments to keep the economy on a financially
viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the desire to maintain
adequate GDP and employment growth during the interim period, and to achieve
further progress towards the country's social objectives. The projections
show that investment and GDP growth will have to be curtailed for the next
two to three years, given the constraints on savings and exports. In this
period, Morocco will need substantial capital transfers from abroad on terms
as favorable as possible to sustain the project investment and GDP growth.
Beyond 1982, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume more rapid
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic sav-
ings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, permit some real expansion of original invest-
ment programs, and undertake large capital-intensive projects geared to import
substitution (in particular sugar, chemicals, shipping and steel). Thus the
GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment rose to nearly
32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In the process,
Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects not only in
traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution industries and
physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult sectors such as
rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and socially-oriented
programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve the investment
levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints being domestic
savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings of only 4.7 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts to raise
public revenues to 28 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset by increases in
current spending, partly for education and health, but particularly for price
subsidies and military expenses. Tax reform measures (which are being prepared
with IMF assistance) and unpopular price policy decisions, such as reduction



-4-
of subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors, will be
required to increase public savings.  Interest rate adjustments to reflect
changes in the rate of domestic price inflation would also be called for.
11.        During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export produc-
tion and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not
aggressively sought; Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC,
especially France.  Yet, it has considerable export potential if only products
and markets were diversified. Export programs are now under preparation
particularly for phosphate and its derivatives, fresh and processed food-
stuffs, and tourism. With regard to phosphate, for example, Morocco and
the USSR signed agreements in March 1978 under which Morocco will export
phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next 30 years for possibly up
to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR will lend
Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate export
capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco, including
crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-term
prospects for phosphate exports.
12.        While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should shift away from highly capital-intensive, import
substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for phys-
ical infrastructure. This would call for improvements in policy planning and
investment programming. Consultants are currently completing a major study
on industrial investment strategy, which should facilitate better investment
selection. A changed investment pattern should reduce the external resource
gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at lower investment
and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
13.        Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's population. As a major
objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends. The Government's
strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of employment creation;
(ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and (iii) specific invest-
ment programs to benefit the least favored population groups.
14.        Progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed by
the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH 1.3 billion in 1972
to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,



Morocco will not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors, and cuts have been made as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
15.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, pressure
to provide adequate social services will rise. Despite short-term financial
constraints, efforts will be needed to limit such growth. Consequently,
strengthening health and family planning services is now an integral part of
the Government's social objectives.
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1973 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 19 to 10
years and average interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about US$70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978.
From the low levels in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has risen rapidly to
an estimated $4.0 billion (disbursed only) at the end of 1978, and in that
year debt service amounted to $481 million (18 percent of exports and workers'
remittances). As a result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt
service may be expected to increase further, and debt service may exceed 25
percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline progres-
sively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets would remain at a rela-
tively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt service, external
debt management has become more restrictive and selective since 1978. If
debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue this policy
over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should be limited,
and efforts should be increased to seek loans on softer terms. Yet, external
borrowing needs would be sizeable. Beyond 1980-82, however, the situation
should progressively improve with the Government firmly controlling domestic
demand and with good long-term prospects for exports and, in particular, with
assured sales of phosphate rock and derivatives. Morocco should therefore be
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 40 projects, financ-
ing a total of $1,106.9 million, 1/ net of cancellations of which $886 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50.0
million, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
1/   Including two loans approved in April 1979, the first of $113 million
for the Fourth Education Project and the second of $25 million for an
Integrated Project for Small Industry Development.



-6-
investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.5 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management or procurement dif-
ficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the upsurge in invest-
ment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation. Overall perfor-
mance in project execution, however, has considerably improved in recent
years. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978, amounted to 72 percent of
original appraisal forecasts and to 75 percent of revised forecasts.
18.        Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 and 32 percent respec-
tively of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (14
percent), education (14 percent), tourism (7 percent), roads (4 percent) and
urban development (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to
Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed
investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and
strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance especially
for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
19.        While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
20.        Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to support small farmers
and the development of rainfed areas. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Proj-
ect, approved in June 1978 was the second, after the Meknes Project to directly
address these objectives. In addition to the proposed project, an integrated
rural development project including livestock and forestry development is
under preparation in a rainfed zone in northern Morocco. A project aimed at
developing production and marketing of off season vegetables for export
markets has recently been appraised.
21.        Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. This pilot
effort led to the recently approved Integrated Project for Small Scale Indus-
try Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978 will help increase



- 7 -
Morocco's foreign exchange earnings.  Continued lending for industry through
the BNDE is contemplated as well as further lending to Credit Immobilier et
Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of one loan for water
supply, two loans for power generation and a recently approved loan for
village electrification and one engineering loan for the preparation of a
sewerage project for Casablanca. A follow up project for water supply and
distribution in urban centers, including distribution to low income urban
consumers, was recently negotiated. A sewerage project in Agadir is under
preparation.
23.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education has been recently approved.
24.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY78) was the first Bank-financed project
in the urban sector. Follow up projects are under preparation to support
the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban development through the
provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social services and the crea-
tion of employment opportunities.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and dropped
from $831 million in 1977 to $370 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 11.2 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 9.5
percent in 1978. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 25 percent and 12 percent respectively.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Performance
26.       Morocco's population in 1977 is estimated at 18 million of which
about 60 percent live in rural areas. During recent years annual population
growth has averaged 2.9 percent overall, with the urban sector growing at
4.8 percent per annum and the rural sector at 1.8 percent per annum. Rural-
urban migration accounts for the difference. In 1977 agriculture contributed
about 14 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent of the labor force and
accounted for about 35 percent of total exports, compared to an average of
about 21, 60 and 42 percent respectively in the early 1970's. The decline in
agricultural exports is due in large part to the increase in phosphate produc-
tion, most of which is exported.



-8-
27.       Morocco has a total land area of 50 million hectares of which 7.4
million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping, and 20 million are in
semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing and forestry. Of the 7.4
million hectares of agricultural land about 5.8 million hectares are cul-
tivated each year while the remainder is left fallow. Of the cultivated land
about 4.5 million hectares are planted under cereals, 500,000 hectares under
pulses, 400,000 hectares under fruit trees, 100,000 hectares under vegetables,
60,000 hectares under sugar beet, and the remainder under oilseeds, cotton
and forage crops. Permanent irrigation covered 690,000 hectares in 1977.
28.       Over the last 15 years agricultural output, which remains subject
to wide annual fluctuations due to variations in climatic conditions, grew
at an average rate of 2.4 percent per annum, below the growth in demand for
foodstuffs caused by a rapid rate of urbanization and by income and population
growth. The value of food imports increased at an average of 21 percent per
annum (9.6 percent in volume) while agricultural exports grew at 6 percent per
annum in value but declined 1.2 percent in volume. The expansion of agricul-
tural imports, along with some switching of exportables to domestic consump-
tion, has permitted maintenance of a generally adequate food supply and
nutritional level for Morocco as a whole, although recent data indicate that
some rural population groups may have experienced a slow decline in consump-
tion on a per capita basis accompanied by some nutritional deficiencies mainly
because of increasing population pressures on cultivable land.
29.       Growth of output has varied between agricultural products.  Progress
has been rapid where modern farming techniques and inputs could be introduced
rapidly and where prices permitted net income per hectare and per day of family
labor to be attractive: sugar beet, sugar cane, milk, and vegetables. For
other crops such as cereals and pulses where the Government has not yet been
successful in modernizing farming practices and for crops such as oilseeds,
cotton and maize where prices have been pegged at insufficiently remunerative
levels, the Government has met with limited or no success.
30.       Under Morocco's Three Year Interim Plan 1978-80, agriculture would
receive $963 million, 18 percent of planned investment, the same proportion
as under the 1973-77 Plan. A further $300 million equivalent in agricultural
credit to finance farm investment would be lent to farmers by the Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), the borrower under the proposed project.
In view of the priority given to completing ongoing projects in the current
period of austerity, the intersectoral allocation of Government investments
remains virtually unchanged with about 57 percent for irrigation projects; 16
percent for the extension service and rural development projects; 6 percent
for livestock; 5 percent for forestry and soil conservation. For the future,
the Interim Plan 1978-80 suggests a policy shift away from irrigation towards
rainfed projects that are increasingly recognized as being central to achiev-
ing agricultural self-sufficiency and reducing income disparities. To achieve
these new objectives would require a major preparation effort during the
Interim Plan period.



-9-
Agriculture Sector Issues
31.       As part of its social policies, the Government purchases hard wheat
and barley at an official support price and fixes the price for soft wheat,
milk, most industrial crops, bread, sugar and vegetable oils. It also inter-
venes in the agricultural sector through controls on imports, foreign exchange
transactions, interest rates and the price of inputs including fertilizer and
high yielding seeds. Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations
receive special subsidies. These price controls and subsidies are adminis-
tratively cumbersome and inefficient: some agricultural prices have been kept
artificially low discouraging production and encouraging imports. The urban
poor only receive a small percentage of consumer food subsidies while the
wealthier farmers benefit most from agricultural input subsidies.  Although
these price distortions may lead to suboptimal investment decisions by farmers,
they are not such as to compromise the economic viability of farm investments
in general and the components retained by the proposed project in particular.
The Government is committed to study this complex issue and an understanding
has been reached that the Bank would be consulted in the context of its
ongoing economic and sector dialogue on the follow up measures to be proposed.
32.       About 40 percent of the rural labor force does not have permanent
employment and about 45 percent of farm families are estimated to be living at
or below the absolute rural poverty level ($200 per capita). Despite a rise
in real per capita income, there is evidence that population pressures have
increased in mountain, forest and arid areas where agricultural production
could not yet be increased commensurably. With employment opportunities
unchanged, the population groups living in these areas have tended to expe-
rience declines in per capita income whenever migration elsewhere in Morocco
or abroad was not possible. The Government is aware of the need to redress
this situation and reduce income disparities, both through agricultural
projects, such as the proposed project, under which 40 percent of the bene-
ficiaries are expected to be in rural poverty target group, the Fes-Karia-
Tissa project and the Doukkala Irrigation projects, and through a regional
development program focussing on less developed zones which is under prepara-
tion with Bank assistance.
33.       Distribution of land in Morocco is relatively skewed with about 75
percent of the farm families owning 5 hectares or less and accounting for 25
percent of the agricultural land. Farms are excessively fragmented with 1.9
million farms divided into 11.6 million parcels averaging about .64 hectare.
Absentee landlords and tenancy arrangements that afford tenant farmers little
security of tenure and consequently no incentive to invest in or improve the
land, have constrained use of agricultural credit and distorted the distribu-
tion of agricultural credit in favor of large farms.  Several land reform
measures are under study including a limitation on the division of land below
a minimum size, obligatory land consolidation, revision of tenancy arrange-
ments and increased recovery of investment costs incurred by the State
through land betterment levies and user charges.



- 10 -
34.       During 1973-77 meat production grew at 3.7 percent per annum and
milk production 5.6 percent. For cattle this growth was associated with
increased milk and meat yields while for sheep and goats it led to overgrazing
of pastureland and a decline in yields, along with destruction of vegetative
cover, erosion, and desertification. To meet anticipated demand for meat and
dairy products, the Government intends to intensify cattle and sheep produc-
tion, concentrating herd development on farms able to grow forage, by the
introduction of high yielding imported breeds, the provision of improved
technical and health services, and the creation of livestock cooperatives
and infrastructure. Medium-term credit for livestock development based on
farm cultivation of forage and industrial crops which provide residues used
for animal feed would be provided under the proposed project.
35.       Agricultural research is theoretical and is not oriented
toward farm profitability. Research priorities are developed in isolation
from production priorities. The extension service is encumbered with admin-
istrative tasks, employs agents with little practical farming experience,
and lacks organization, materials, and a systematic method for extension.
The Interim Plan 1978-80 calls for measures to reduce the administrative and
regulatory responsibilities of extension agents and to increase the time they
devote to technical advice along the lines set out in the Bank financed
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project. A gradual improvement in the extension
service may therefore be expected, leading to a more productive use of credit.
36.       Experience in Morocco has shown that tractors can prepare the land
and permit fertilizer and high yielding seeds to be applied rapidly before the
first rainfall so as to gain the maximum advantage from Morocco's short period
of rainfall. They have led to more timely and better quality land preparation
than animal drawn implements and allowed farmers to replace draft animals with
livestock. Research indicates an average 0.3 ton/ha increase in cereal yields
can be achieved by mechanization. Analysis of CNCA mechanization loans shows
good economic and financial returns, although there is some labor displace-
ment. Morocco does not subsidize mechanization and the modest expansion to be
financed by the proposed project, which would be limited to farming units of a
size for which animal or human cultivation and harvest would be uneconomic, is
appropriate.
37.       During 1973-77 value added in agroindustry accounted for 7 percent
of GDP and 42 percent of the manufacturing total. Employment in both the
traditional and modern sectors is estimated at 45,000 or about a quarter
of employment in the manufacturing sector. Annual investments have averaged
DH 200 million or 10 percent of large and medium scale investments in indus-
try. The industrial investment code which provides incentives to larger scale
modern units has had a tendency to encourage excess capacity, although in some
branches this has occurred because anticipated agricultural growth has not been
achieved. Future growth of agroindustry is expected to exceed population
growth due to a rapid rate of urbanization and rising per capita incomes, both
associated with higher consumption levels for processed foods. Furthermore,
capacity is becoming constrained in certain branches and in others full
capacity utilization, at least locally, is expected to be reached by the early
1980's: olive oil and oilseed trituration, sugar beet processing, sugar
refining, milk pasteurization, animal feed, cold storage, and vegetable



- 11 -
canning. Finance for large scale projects is generally available from foreign
and local sources including the Moroccan Industrial Development Bank (BNDE)
and the Moroccan Government. Small and medium scale agroindustries have not
received adequate attention. Their expansion has been constrained by lack of
finance, technical competence and skilled labor and experience in dealing
with financial institutions and the Government. These issues are addressed by
the small scale agroindustry component of the proposed project which would be
directed to industries where capacity is not sufficient and would help over-
come the above constraints. CNCA's experience in the rural sector and its
extensive branch network make it a suitable institution for carrying out this
function.
38.       Over recent years, the Bank's strategy in the agricultural sector
has supported the Government's objectives of increasing economic agricultural
production to meet basic food needs and to work towards agricultural self-
sufficiency, while placing increased emphasis on social aspects, particularly
the inclusion of the rural poor target group and a shift in investments from
large scale irrigation towards rainfed agriculture. Within this framework,
support of agricultural credit which finances a large percentage of directly
productive farm investments has figured importantly: Bank funds under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project served to refinance subloans to small
farmers and cooperatives, including large numbers living at the poverty level.
In this respect CNCA's performance has been one of the best in the region.
The Bank strategy also recognizes the need to support highly productive export
oriented projects as part of an overall national policy to promote exports.
Irrigation and small scale agroindustry projects would be developed in a
manner which would develop their complementarity with rainfed farming.
Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects
39.       Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and
to date 11 projects have been undertaken and supported by $343 million in
Bank/IDA funds ($24 million of which in IDA credits). They include five
irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY75, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss
Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and Doukkala II (FY77). There have
also been three Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77), an Agro-
industries and Flood Control Project (Sebou II, FY74), and two Agricultural
Development Projects focussing on rainfed agriculture in the Meknes (FY75)
and Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78) areas. Project performance to date is generally
satisfactory although irrigation projects suffered initially from problems of
land distribution, insufficient cost recovery, organization and delays in the
construction and in acquisition of irrigation equipment. Poor coordination
between and within participating Ministries was a primary cause of these
problems. For the Meknes Project, the major issues have been the difficulties
in establishing, and delays in executing, the land redistribution program, as
well as a poor coordination betwen the Project Authority and the Central
Government. These issues are now largely resolved.
40.       There have been three Bank financed Agricultural Credit Projects in
Morocco for which CNCA was the borrower. The First Agricultural Credit Project
(FY66) for $10 million covered the period 1966-69, and financed investments



- 12 -
undertaken by about 6,000 medium and large farmers and the farm equipment and
machinery purchased by a State company managing land taken over from foreign
settlers. The Project was audited by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) 1/ which attributed the Project's mixed results principally to CNCA's
shortage of qualified staff and to Government's interference in CNCA operation
by directing CNCA resources to small farmer lending not approved by the
Bank, and by dissolving the State company receiving Bank financing without
prior notification to the Bank.  Nonetheless, investments financed by CNCA
credit generated an increase in the income of beneficiaries.
41.        The Bank provided a loan/credit of US$34 million to CNCA (FY73) for
the Second Agricultural Credit Project covering the 1973-1976 period to
finance medium and large farmer investments in grain farm equipment, citrus
plantation development, winter vegetable production, marketing facilities,
dairy, cattle, and sheep operations. Excluded from the Project were loans to
small farmers on the grounds that CNCA would be taking an unjustified finan-
cial risk by financing small farmers without a prior appraisal of their
investments. About 17,000 mostly large farmers benefitted from this Project.
42.        With the Third Agricultural Credit Project (FY77) the scope of CNCA
activities subject to refinancing was enlarged to include agrarian reform
cooperatives, farmers' associations and small farmers, the latter in view of
the good results obtained by CNCA in financing small farmers outside the Bank's
Second Project. The Bank loan of $35 million should be fully disbursed as
foreseen by August 31, 1979, and will finance about 13 percent of CNCA Project
lending. A parallel loan of KD 7 million (about $31 million equivalent) by
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is likewise being disbursed
on schedule. By 1977, CNCA reached about 17 percent of Morocco's 1,928,000
farms; about 40 percent of its clients lived at or below the absolute poverty
level when the loans were made. A net gain of about 52,000 manyears of
employment is expected under the Third Credit Project. Analysis of a sample
of CNCA loan recipients indicates a project economic rate of return of about
20 percent. Project issues, which are dealt with under the proposed project,
include negative real interest rates, CNCA's need for: (i) more agricultural
staff in order to serve clients and supervise loans; (ii) more efficient
lending norms for small farmers; and for (iii) improved monitoring, evaluation
and information flow.
IV. THE PROJECT
43.        The Government of Morocco and CNCA the National Agricultural Credit
Bank have requested a Bank loan to help finance a Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project.  Project objectives are to finance farm investment and small scale
1/   "Operations Evaluation Report--Agricultural Credit Programs", Report No.
1357 of November 18, 1976.



- 13 -
agroindustry in order to stimulate agricultural and agroindustrial growth,
increase rural incomes and provide rural employment. The project would also
assist CNCA resolve the issues raised under the implementation of the Third
Agricultural Credit Project (para. 42). The project was identified by CNCA
with the assistance of Bank missions during November 1977 and July 1978
supervising the Third Agricultural Credit Project. Project preparation was
carried out by CNCA according to terms of reference agreed to during the July
1978 Bank preparation mission. A Bank appraisal mission visited Morocco in
November 1978. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington on
April 16-20, 1979. CNCA was represented by M. Kadiri, General Manager of CNCA
and the Guarantor by M. Belkoura, Prime Minister's Office. Negotiations
between the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), CNCA and
the Government were held in Rome on April 26 and 27. An appraisal report of
the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (No. 2426-MOR) dated April 30, 1979, is
being distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
44.       The Project is based on a projection of demand for CNCA medium and
long term loans. Project costs include the entire cost of eligible investments
projected to be financed by CNCA during the Project period, September 1, 1979
to August 31, 1982, for a total of $737.2 million. Project start up would
immediately follow completion of the Third Agricultural Credit Project. The
Project consists of the following five parts:
(A) farm investments by small farmers with estimated annual farm
income of $20 to $325 per capita borrowing from CNCA's local
branches for livestock, draft animals, wells, pumps, land
improvement and small equipment. All categories of small
farms would be eligible;
(B) farm investments by agrarian reform cooperatives and farmers'
associations, most of whose members are small farmers with
per capita incomes ranging from slightly below to about
three times the absolute rural poverty level, for the same
objects as financed for small farmers, plus farm mechaniza-
tion. Subloans for investments for farm mechanization and
transport equipment would be made to the cooperative
or association while other subloans would be made directly
to their members;
(C) farm investments by medium and large farmers with an estimated
annual farm income above $325 per capita borrowing from CNCA's
regional branches and headquarters; the same objects would be
financed as for cooperatives and farmers' associations;
(D) small scale agroindustrial investments contributing to rural
employment and showing a large share of project benefits



- 14 -
accruing to the rural sector, including: flour mills, milk
pasteurization, cold storage, animal feed, canning, and olive
trituration; and
(E) extension of CNCA's monitoring and evaluation system through
provision of necessary equipment (vehicles, calculators, com-
puter programs), consulting services and training.
Project Implementation, Organization and Staff
45.       CNCA, the only institutional source of medium and long term agricul-
tural credit in Morocco, would be the borrower and executing agency for
project lending. CNCA lends in response to loan applications by farmers or
entrepreneurs who would execute the investments. CNCA is an autonomous
Government owned Bank. Its Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture and it is administered by a Managing Committee presided by
a General Director and including representatives of the Ministries of Agri-
culture, Finance, Interior, and the Central Bank. Loans to companies, coop-
eratives, and very large farmers are handled at CNCA's headquarters. Loans
to medium and large farmers, farmers' associations and some cooperatives
are processed and supervised by CNCA's 29 regional branches, the Caisses
Regionales de Credit Agricole (CRCA). Loans to small farmers are processed by
91 local branches, the Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole (CLCA). These
branches have been grouped into five regions each administered by a Regional
Director. Headquarters has the responsibility for major policy decisions
involving lending norms and criteria and personnel policy.
46.       CNCA staff number 1,519 having doubled since 1971.  The level of
education is high, staff are qualified and staff training is of good quality.
However, staff recruitment and retention have been constrained by a national
shortage of agricultural technicians and a gradual erosion of CNCA's salary
structure compared to the conditions offered to staff by private banks and
industry. In order to avoid a deterioration of CNCA's appraisal and super-
vision activity, Government and CNCA provided assurances that CNCA would
maintain a compensation and incentive system competitive with the systems
applied in comparable institutions (Section 5.04, draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.02, draft Guarantee Agreement).
Lending Procedures and Interest Rate
47.       Overall, CNCA's appraisal criteria and lending procedures are ade-
quate and loan approval is usually fast. For loans made through the Ilead-
quarters and the CRCAs, a relatively good balance has been struck between
the thoroughness of appraisal and the objective of reaching a large number
of farmers with limited staff.  CNCA financing for these loans is normally
limited to 70 percent of investment costs for which a loan application is
made. Loans to small farmers with an annual net farm income below $1,900,
are provided through the CLCAs on the basis of annually updated lending norms
specifying the maximum loan amounts for each investment item. The total
indebtedness of CLCA small farmer clients is also subject to a loan ceiling



- 15 -
based on an estimate of fiscal revenue which relates to the number of hec-
tares, livestock, and fruit trees declared by the farmer. The purpose of
these lending limits is to minimize CLCA lending risk and client indebtedness
since appraisal of CLCA loans is based on a desk review. A systematic field
appraisal and supervision of small farmer loans would not be administratively
feasible, given the number of CLCA loans processed each year, over 100,000 in
1977-78.
48.       The major changes in CNCA policy since the Third Agricultural Credit
Project have been a regionalization of CRCA lending norms, decentralization of
lending responsibilities, and simplification of lending procedures. The
institutional objectives underlying these changes have been to maximize the
number of farm clients, accelerate loan appraisal and disbursement, and tailor
credit norms to farming conditions specific to each region. Under the pro-
posed project these changes would be pursued further, with particular efforts
to gradually introduce an alternative system to the fiscal revenue ceiling
used in approving loans to small farmers, in order to bring about a direct
relationship between the loan amount, the investment cost and the repayment
capacity of the farmer. Two different approaches are currently being tried
out on an experimental basis. First, beginning in 1978/79, CNCA has extended
the CRCA lending criteria, which tailor the size of the loan to actual invest-
ment costs and repayment capacity, to the largest of the CLCA clients. This
change would mostly affect farmers with annual net farm incomes in the $1,200
to $1,900 range. Second, under the Fes-Karia-Tissa Project, a system is being
developed based on (i) the creation of pre-cooperative associations of small
farmers agreeing to follow technical packages established by the local exten-
sion service and specifying, among others, the cropping pattern, input use,
and agricultural practices to be followed and (ii) the granting of credit on
a collective basis to these associations to carry out their investment and
harvest programs. Therefore in addition to participating in the annual review
of the CLCA lending norms (see para. 47), it was agreed that CNCA would review
with the Bank before July 31, 1980, the experience gained under the two experi-
mental systems with a view to extending their benefits to farmers below the
absolute rural poverty line. (Section 5.01, draft Loan Agreement). An
understanding was also reached that CLCA lending norms would gradually be
regionalized, starting with the 1980/81 season. It was further agreed that a
random 5 percent sample of CLCA loans would be supervised during the project
implementation period to control use of credit and provide feedback on the
adequacy of norms adopted (Schedule 4, Section II, Part I (iii), draft
Loan Agreement).
49.       The present interest rate of 8.5 percent for medium- and long-term
agricultural loans to private farmers, companies and to Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives from the sixth year of their existence onwards is in line with
interest rates charged in other sectors of the economy. Farmers' associations
and newly created Agrarian Reform Cooperatives pay an interest rate of 7
percent. For the agroindustry component, it was agreed that CNCA would apply
an interest rate at least equal to the interest rate applied by other institu-
tions lending to small scale agroindustries in Morocco (currently 8 percent on
medium term loans and 9 percent on long term loans) or to 8-1/2 percent for



- 16 -
loans with a maturity of less than 7 years and 9 percent for loans with a
maturity of 7 years and more, whichever is higher (Schedule 4, Section I
C(ii), draft Loan Agreement).  The rate of price inflation is estimated at 9
percent per annum in 1979, down from 12.5 percent in 1977 and 9.4 percent in
1978. Bank projections indicate a decline in the rate of inflation to 7
percent in 1980 when the proposed project starts up, rising to 8 percent per
annum for the remainder of the project period.  CNCA's average lending rate
would therefore be positive in real terms during the project period, and the
interest rate spread would be sufficient to generate a profit since the
average cost of CNCA resources is projected at 3.2 percent.  However, with
respect to CLCA operations for which the Government provides a small subsidy
to cover part of the cost of handling the small credit applications, assurances
were obtained that financial charges on CLCA operations would be adjusted
upwards whenever the Government subsidy of CLCA expenses is forecast to exceed
30 percent of those expenses (Section 6.07(a) (ii)), draft Loan Agreement).
In order to protect CNCA's financial viability in the event of more rapid than
expected price inflation, it was agreed to adjust interest rates on Head
Office/CRCA Loans to ensure profitable operation of CNCA and to provide
adequate provisions for bad or doubtful debt (Section 6.07(a) (i), draft Loan
Agreement).
Agroindustry Component
50.       Project lending to agroindustry would be oriented to labor intensive
small scale agroindustries which process Moroccan agricultural products. The
component is intended to create employment in rural areas, provide outlets for
agriculture, and contribute to economic growth by financing subprojects with
high economic returns to investment. A secondary objective is to assist
agroindustries owned by cooperative groups of Moroccan farmers so as to
encourage the cooperative movement and to ensure that the farm sector receives
a larger share of benefits. Specific subproject evaluation criteria have been
agreed with CNCA stipulating that the subprojects should not exceed an invest-
ment cost of DH 10 million ($2.5 million); transform Moroccan agricultural
products; have adequate plans for input supply, marketing, design, and
financing; and include an economic justification (Schedule 4, Section III,
draft Loan Agreement). The first agroindustrial subloan application in each
of five different agroindustry branches would be submitted to the Bank for
prior approval as would subsequent subloan applications for investments
exceeding DH 2.5 million (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
51.       An agroindustry evaluation unit would be established at CNCA head-
quarters. It would be fully staffed with suitably qualified personnel by
December 31, 1980. Technical assistance and project promotion would be
provided by the Technical Assistance Unit being established in the Office
de Developpement Industriel under the Integrated Project for Small Scale
Industry Development recently approved (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement).
Additional technical assistance and promotional services for agroindustry
would be provided by the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation, the
Irrigation Offices for agroindustry within the irrigation perimeters, and the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.



- 17 -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Audit
52.       The monitoring and evaluation system established by CNCA under
the Third Agricultural Credit Project would be strengthened to increase the
usefulness of information presently being collected from a sample of farms.
This data has served CNCA in improving lending norms, appraisal criteria
and credit delivery and in assessing the impact of its lending on agricultural
production and income. The monitoring and evaluation component under the
proposed project would assist CNCA by providing necessary equipment, consulting
services and training. CNCA would prepare a Project Completion Report evalu-
ating project execution and the performance by subborrowers, the Bank, the
Government and CNCA itself. During negotiations an understanding was reached
with Government that it would study with the Bank the possibility of estab-
lishing a sector-wide monitoring and evaluation system for agricultural
projects to complement project specific systems.
53.       CNCA's accounting organization and audit system are satisfactory and
would remain unchanged. The audit report would include an opinion certifying
that CNCA disbursements under the project were consistent with the statements
of expenses submitted to the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
54.       Detailed project costs and financing are given in the Loan and
Project Summary. The total project cost is estimated at $737.2 million
equivalent (including $52.0 million in taxes) of which 34 percent ($250.0
million) would be in foreign exchange. These estimates include price con-
tingencies based on projected price inflation at 7 percent in 1979/80, and 8
percent thereafter. CNCA would finance 47 percent of project costs from its
own resources. Subborrowers would finance 31 percent of project costs as
their equity contribution to farm and agro-industrial investment. The Govern-
ment would provide small investments grants primarily to agrarian reform
cooperatives and farmers' associations, amounting to 2 percent of project
costs. The remaining financing gap of $145 million equivalent (20 percent of
project cost) would be financed by the proposed Bank loan for $70 million, a
loan from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for $25
million, and a loan from the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) for
DM 94 million (about $50 million equivalent). CNCA would be the borrower in
each case. The Bank loan would be for a period of 14 years including a 4-year
grace period and would finance 12 percent of subloans to small farmers, 18
percent of subloans to cooperatives and farmers' associations, 13 percent of
subloans to medium and large farmers, 25 percent of subloans for agroindus-
try, and 50 percent of the cost of the monitoring and evaluation system. The
IFAD loan, with a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years grace, at an interest
rate of 4 percent would finance 10 percent of loan disbursements to small
farmers. The KfW loan would have a maturity of 30 years including 10 years
grace at a nominal interest of 3.5 percent. In accordance with country terms
for Morocco, KfW would actually be paid interest at the rate of 2 percent; the
1.5 percent difference would be applied to an interest differential fund which
CNCA could use to: (i) cover the cost of additional personnel recruited to
intensify appraisal and supervision of CLCA activities; (ii) finance overseas
training for staff; and (iii) set up provisions against losses and bad debts
on CLCA operations. The KfW loan would finance 10 percent of subloans to



- 18 -
small farmers, 15 percent of sub-loans to cooperatives and farmers' associa-
tions and 11 percent of sub-loans to medium and large farmers. In order to
maintain the proposed schedule of disbursements under the Bank and IFAD loans,
given the time required to process the KfW loan agreement, the signature of
the KfW loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness, and the failure
to declare the KfW loan effective by March 1, 1980 would constitute a special
condition of suspension of the Bank loan. The effectiveness of the IFAD loan
would also be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Sections 7.01(b)
and 8.01, draft Loan Agreement). Government would carry the foreign exchange
risk on all foreign loans, would guarantee the debt service on each loan, and
would provide or cause CNCA to be provided with any additional resources
required for CNCA's operations under the project (Section 3.03, draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Financial Position
55.       CNCA's resources grew at 21 percent per annum from 1974/75 to
1977/78, to a total of $302 million equivalent. Long term loans have been
obtained from the IBRD/IDA ($79 million total), the German KfW (10 million
Deutschmark), the Euro-dollar market ($30 million equivalent), the Arab
Fund ($31 million), and domestic bond issues (DH 60 million). Most CNCA
resources go to lending operations, with only 2.1 percent going to fixed
assets and to investments in State debentures and equity participations.
CNCA's financial position is good, reflecting its efficient management and
excellent rates of loan recovery (82 percent annually and 94-97 percent
cumulatively). Its liquid and current assets cover twice its short term
liabilities, which together with an excellent rate of loan recovery, indicates
a good liquidity position. CNCA's equity resources and long term debt more
than cover medium and long term loans outstanding. The balance, along with
deposits and Central Bank advances, covers outstanding short term loans.
Profits increased 4-1/2 times from 1974/75 to 1977/78, reaching DH 5.3 million
($1.3 million) in 1977/78. As in the past, assurances would be sought that
CNCA medium and long term debt will not exceed 4 times equity (Section 6.05,
draft Loan Agreement), and current assets will equal at least 120 percent of
current liabilities (Section 6.09, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
56.       With the exception of the agroindustry component, the range of
goods to be financed under the Project is varied and would not be suitable for
bulk procurement. Contracts would be too small to warrant competitive bidding
advertised internationally. Foreign suppliers of machinery are well repre-
sented in Morocco, necessary service facilities are available, competition is
keen and prices are competitive. Agricultural subborrowers would therefore
purchase agricultural equipment of their choice through existing local
channels. Dairy farm development would require procurement of in-calf heifers,
most of which would come from Government or private farms. However, should
more than 75 heifers be imported under any subloan, quotations from at least
three suppliers would be sought. For the agroindustrial subprojects having an
investment cost exceeding DH5 million ($1.25 million), contracts for civil
works and installation of machinery, exceeding the equivalent of $200,000 and



- 19 -
equipment exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 would be tendered under competi-
tive bidding advertised locally as set out in the Bank guidelines. For all
other contracts, procurement would be undertaken according to commercial
practices in Morocco which are acceptable to the Bank and generally involve
international and local shopping. CNCA would verify compliance with the
procurement procedures (Section 3.08(c) and Schedule 5, Part D, draft Loan
Agreement). Bidding documents for contracts of $300,000 or more which are
part of an investment exceeding DH5 million and the final award of such
contracts would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval. In view of the
widespread representation of foreign equipment suppliers in Morocco, suppliers
from the Bank's member countries would have an equal opportunity to compete
for contracts. Contracts of greatest interest to foreign suppliers would
include installation of machinery and equipment for milk pasteurization
plants, semi-industrial flour mills, cold storage, animal feed production, and
cannning factories. The value of these contracts, including contingencies,
would probably not exceed $40 million.
Disbursement
57        The Project commitment period is for three years (September 1, 1979
to August 31, 1982) and CNCA's disbursements to subborrowers would be in
accordance with the phasing of individual subproject development. The Bank
loan would be disbursed in about 3-1/2 years. The Bank would reimburse CNCA
against certified statements of expenditures for 12 percent of agricultural
subloans disbursed under Part A, 18 percent of subloans under Part B, 13
percent of subloans under Part C, and 25 percent of subloans under Part D of
the project. It would also finance 50 percent of the costs of the monitoring
and evaluation system. Documentation for the statements of expenditures to
agricultural subborrowers would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained
by CNCA for review by supervision missions.
Project Justification
58.       The project would increase crop production in Morocco through
changed cropping patterns and increased crop yields resulting from project
financed wells, pumps, mechanized farming, draft animals, land levelling,
destoning, other land improvements and plantations. Development of milk and
meat production would result from project investment in pure and cross breed
cows and sheep, development of forage crops and crop residues used for animal
feed, improved animal shelters, complementary Government services, and
expanded marketing and processing facilities. Incremental annual production
with the project is estimated as follows:



- 20 -
As a % of Increase in
Incremental Annual         Moroccan Consumption
Production from project        Between 1977 and 1985
(tons)                         (%)
Wheat                              107,000                          6.5
Barley (animal feed)              -100,000                           -
Forage ('000 feed units)           163,000                         16.0
Vegetables                         215,000                          9.5
Industrial Crops                 1,283,000                         13.0
Pulses                                1,000                          .7
Fruit                              500,000                         70.0
Milk                               300,000                         42.0
Meat                                55,000                         18.0
This incremental production would help Morocco's balance of payments by reduc-
ing imports and increasing exports of fruit. About 475,000 farmers or 25
percent of the total are expected to receive CNCA loans, an increase over the
present figure of 323,800 clients. Based on data collected by CNCA in process-
ing credit applications, about 40 percent of CNCA clients are estimated to
presently live at or below the rural absolute poverty level. The overall
economic rate of return to the project is estimated at 20 percent, varying
between 10 and 80 percent on the various project components. Financial rates
of return for illustrative farm models range from 9 to 50 percent. The project
would directly create about 115,000 manyears of employment compared to a total
rural labor supply of 3.1 million manyears in 1979, of which about 60 percent
are permanently employed. The agroindustrial component would generate value
added to the Moroccan economy by processing Moroccan products, and create
rural non-farm employment.
59.       An exercise to calculate the social rate of return for the kinds
of investment undertaken under the project is underway in the context of
Bank sector work in Morocco. For the purposes of the project, preliminary
weights derived from this exercise and reflecting the Government's primary
objectives of fostering economic growth and reducing income disparities, were
applied to farm budgets. A weighted average of the rates obtained yielded a
tentative social rate of return to the project of 14 percent compared to an
average social rate of return on marginal Government expenditures in Morocco
of 6 percent. Application of this methodology to the investments financed
under the project indicated that on average these are justified, with the
possible exception of investments in combine harvestors in areas where unem-
ployed labor is abundant at harvest periods. These latter investments,
however, yield an acceptable economic rate of return of 10 percent. The
social analysis would be completed within the context of Bank economic sector
work and its implications discussed with Government.
Project Risks
60.       The major risk is that of adverse weather conditions which on
average occur once in every five years, and which reduce crop yields. Low
crop yields would reduce incremental income and the economic and social



- 21 -
returns from the project. These returns were estimated on the basis of
average crop yields likely to be obtained in the normal pattern of good and
bad years. Other risks include adverse changes in Government price policy and
support services which would limit production increases and hence rates of
return under the Project. Such changes would constitute a reversal of present
policy trends and are not considered likely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
62.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 10, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-22 -                                          Page 1 of 6
TAJ4I 3A
MOROCCO - SOC7AL INDICAOR& DAtA SHEZS
ZYErENCI GROUPS (ADfSSZU AVZJffE
MOROCCO 
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KH.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ZSTIMATZ)
TOTAL            659.9 i                                                 SAMH         SAME     NZXT HIGHER
ANRICULTUAL      157.8                                 MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 .1    1970 Lb ESTI0ATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP ld    GROUP la
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  190.0       290.0     570.0           1438.5      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     148.0        180.0     274.0           816.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STAISTICS
TOTAL POPULATIN, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        11.6         14.8      17.7
LlBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 29.3         32.2      39.5             45.8       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQ. PH.                       26.0         33.0      39.0 LI          23.2       42.1        50.8
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     61.0         74.0     112.0            112.4       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3         46.4      45.8             46.0       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                         51.7         51.1      51.6            50.6        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0          2.5       2.6             3.3         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6          2.4       2.4             2.9         2.7         2.5
URBAN                              6.4          4.0       4.8             5.0         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.4        49.2      44.5             45.0       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.2        18.5      13.4             13.7       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4 /h      3.4       3.3              3.4        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      68.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          3.0       5.4             14.7       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970100)             118.7       100.0      86.0            107.1      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES <PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENT5)                   90.0        102.0     108.0             99.2       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMHS PER DAY)         43.0         64.0      70.5            63.4        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        14.0 /i   15.6             16.4       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAT!        ..          ..        ..               ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)    45.4         50.4      53.0             53.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)               149.0 /h       ..     130.0             77.7       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAF_ WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        51.0        ..             59.1       31.1        56.8
1URBAN                              ..         92.0        ..             85.9       68.5        79.0
RURAL                               ..         28.0        ..             38.0       18.2        31.8
ACCESS -O EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         29.0        *-             64.3       37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..        73.0        ..             94.5       69.5        45.4
RURAL                                *-         4.0        *-             27.7       25.4        16.1
POPUILTION PER PHYSICIAN          9700.0 /h  12650.0   12400.0           4271.6      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2820.0    1500.0           2077.4     2762.5      1462.0
FOPU7ATION PER HOSPITAL IED
TOTAL                            680.0        660.0     710.0           530.2       786.5       493.9
JRBAN                               ..        460.0        ..            310.0      278.4       229.6
RURAL                               ..       2980.0        ..               ..     1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER 00SPITAL BED            ..        15.5      16.5             22.0       19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8         5.5        ..              5.4          .         5.2
URBAN                               4.3         4.9        ..               ..         ..         5.0
RURAL                               5.1         5.8        ..               ..         ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUXMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
T0TAL                               2.2         2.4        ..               ..         ..         2. 0
URSAN                               2.1         2.:        ..              1.8        2.3          1.5
RURAL                               2.3         2.6        ..               ..         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0          ..        ..             40.3       28.3        64.1
URBAN                              55.4 j      68.4      55.0               ..          .         67.8
RURAL                              31.0          ..         ..            12.2       10.3        34.1



-23 -                                             AN. EX I
TABLE 3A                                         Tage  2  of  6
MCROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
40RORCCO                                                   !a
- MOST PECENT ESTIM6AT!)
SAME        SADIE     NEXT 'iGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP  e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EHROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAPY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0       65.0             80.8       75.8         99.8
FEMALE                27.0         37.0       47.0             61.8       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       17.0             23.6       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                 2.0          7.0       12.0             18.2        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECOhDARY)   ..            2.0        3                6.7        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHEP. RATIO
PRL'LARY                            43.0         34.0      40.0              31.5       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                             ..         20.0       22.0             22.3       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         17.0         21.0       28.0             50.1       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGFR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         15.0       18.0             14.5        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIO                          46.0         60.0      77.0            125.8        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.0      23.0              34.5       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ('DA.LY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POP':LATION                  22.0         16.0       14.0             17.4        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        1.6              1.6         1.6         4.6
EKPLuYiSENT
TOTAL LABR FAaCE (THOUSANDS)        3250.0       3980.0    4930.0
FEHALE (PERCENT)                    10.6         15.2       19.0              9.3       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)               56.4         49.9      42.5              42.0       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3         14.9      18.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0         26.3       27.0             26.9        37.8        33.8
HALE                                  50.1         44.5       44.4             46.6        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                 5.9          8.0       10.3              5.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.0          1.9        1.8              1.9         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   1B.0 /k        20.0 /k      ..               *-        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3 /k        49.0 /k      ..               ..       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHGLDS    7.0 /k         4.0 ok      ..               ..        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 1k        12.0 tk      ..               ..       15.7         13.1
PO'VERTY T'AlGET GROUTPS
ESTIMATE) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
*URBAN                             107.0        157.0     288.0                ..       155.9       191.9
RISRAL                              66.0        101.0      174.0            142.0       97.9        193.1
EST1MATED RELATIVE POVERT-Y INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      189.0            236.1      143.7        319.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            144.7       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
11RBAN                              59.0         39.0       34.0             21.5        22.9        19.8
RURAL                               49.0         45.0       45.0             37.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The Adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Fstimate, between 1973 and 1977.
tc    North' Africa 6 Middle East;   /d   Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita. 1976);   Le  lntermediate Kiddle
lcome (0551-1135 per rapica. 1976);    L   Including Moroccan provinces in Westen; Sahara;   /R  Excludes
Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   /h  1962;  L/  Av. 1964-66;   LI  Brick building only;   lk  Consumption
exptnditures of households.
September, 1978



- 24 -                                                                ANNEX I
DEFNITONS  Of SragLMIAT                                                                    3   of   6
QU~:  The adjusted group averalge  for each indicator are Populacion-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and toe moor
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data end is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil. Exporters and indicators of atccess to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and pvoarty are
simle popwlation-weighted geometric mesas without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 PoPulation Per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population  (total.
Total - Total surface  area comprising loand area sand inlanid waters,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
haniuitual  -most recent estimate of agricultural area used respora rily                 aviable in public and private general sod specialized hospital arc no
orpermanently Ion crops, pastures, us,rist and kitchecgric  or to                        oa,bilitaciuo centers.  Hospitals are establishentoa . ai,..
lefollo.,                                                                                at least one physician.  israblishments providlr.g prinCipaily cusradiul
cars are not included. Rural hospitals, however. include heLith and .edi-
GNP  tPER CAPITA (US$  - GNP par cepita estimates at current market prices.                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a phys.ician (but by a medicalas
calculated by same conve.rsion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis):                 sistant, nurse, midwife. etc.) which offer in-petisnt acom f- ad
1960, 1970. sod 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited rungs of medical facilities.
Admissionspoar hosital bed - Total  ueber,of adeissiosn  to or discharges
ENERGlY CONlSiOSTION PtR CAPITA - Annual Consumption of comercial energy                      frmhsptl   ivided by the nuebar of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, macoral gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                      HOUSING
Average Si:e o f household (persons net hou-shold) - total, urba..' and rural-
POPUL.ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A bossehold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
To tal oooulstin  s%in-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960. 1970, and 1977 dare,                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urhan Popoulation (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
nion; different definitions of urban areas may affect Comparability                     Average oumber of porsons oar room - total, urban, and rural - A*verge nan-
of dare among countriss.                                                                   her of persons per tone in all, urban. end rural occupied conventIonal-
Poo..letiom  density                                                                         dwellingsn, respectively.  Dwellings sexclude non-permanent strcture.sand
per  asq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total ores.                                                                          Access to electricity foercat of dwellings) - total. urban, and rural -
Per sq. ko. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultura1leiad                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings reapective17.
Population Age structura (percent) - Children (0-l4 pears), working-age
(15-64 years), and retirad (65 years sand over) as Percentages of mId-                EDUCATIOON
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrolnment rati.s
Population gtrowth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                     Primary schooi - local. end female - Total and fesale enrollment of all ages
growth rtots of total sand urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as perrentagee of respectively  primary sho-q
1960-70  sand 1970-75.                                                                     populations:; normally includes children aged 6-il pears but adjusted  ocr
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Aannul live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countr ies with universal odu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 nercest since some pupils are below  o
1970 sand fiv-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent satiaste,                        above the official School age.
Crude death rate (oar thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of old-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed aso above; secondary educa-
year population; tan-year arithmetic aveCragesnding is 1960 end 1970                      tdon requires at Iesaa  four peers of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-pear average ending in 11975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or rancher training instructIons for puplos
irons reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usualyp of 12 to I7 years of age; correapoedance cours es are genrally
ic uec  -orn! o-productive period if she eaperience s prese.nt age-seldd
specific fertilI'ty rates; ususlly five-pear uvarages coding in 1960,                   Vocational enroliment (Percent cf Secondarv) - VPoci.atinl lol'n   0
1970, and 1975.                                                                            .dud   technical, industrial, or other p,rograms which operate infcporcocti,'
Poily olannina - accepcors.  annual ftbousands) - Annual number of                          or a. departments of secondary institutions.
occoptror  of birth-control dev,ices under auepCcs  of nstioeall fanily                Pupil-taeaher ratio - prisry. end serso.darn - Total Students o.rrlod i
plann.ing program.                                                                         primary end secondary levels divided by n,uohers of teachers ti th. come.-
Family clanicog . users (peccan.t of married women) - Percentage of                          Spoending leveis.
-arniec wosen of chlld-heaCnig age (Il-hi pears) who use birth-coocrol                 Adult Lteracy rate (percent; - Literate adults (ahie to read end wrIt:,. a
devices to all married woman in sane &gS group,                                            a percentage of total adult population eqed 11 pears end over.
FOOl AND gISTITIONI                                                                       C0KSU)ITCON
Inds. of food production per canite (1970-i00) - Index eumbar of per                     Paseemser cars (net thousandi pseulation) - Passenger cats comprise mo tor car.
capita  nanual production of  lI, food commodities.                                     searing lees than eight persons; secludes ambulances, hearses sod military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of remuirommets) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Raio receivers (ner thousand population) - All types of receivers for tai.
per day.  Available Suppiies comprise dome stic Production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of novulati.o; eacludesunlon
onporte, and Changes in stock.  Net supplIes emclud  animal feed, seeds,                receivers is countrie.soad in yearn when regietrutlon of radio sets wsi
quantities used fe food process..ing, and Io...as in distribution.  Re-                 effect: dots for recent  years may not be coproososmst countries
qciceence were estimated by PAO based on phyeioiogical needs for nor-                   abnlisehd licens.ing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV, receivers (per thousand population) - TV :cnivere for broadcast to genera
osights, age and seax distributionts of population, sand allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; secludes  noliceesed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste or house hold level,                                                        tries and in years when cegintretian of TV nets was in effect.
Par capita supply of orocein (stuns per day) - Protein Content of per                     NeusPpenr circulation (per thousand ponulatlon) - Shows the averge ci-r.ca-
capita oar sopplp of food per day.  let supply of food is defioed as                       tion of "daily genearl interest news;papr`, defined as a paCcidic-l pcl--
above.  isqoirements  for oil cou ntries ostabl_lshad by ifSlA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording gene.ral news.  Itc is considered to
a minimum allowan ce of hi grams of total protein per day snd 20 grams                     he 'daily'  if it appears at leas.t four tines o week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should he animal protein.               Cinema. annual attendance per canits per year - 3ased cm the ousher oftcet
These  tcaodards are lowe.r than those of 75 gras. of total protein and                   sold during the year.  includiog admissiosn  to drive-in, cinemas ace  obhile
Z3 gra.s of animal protein as an  vsgefor the world, proposed by                           units.
FAG io che Toird World Food Survey.
Per -pnite protein suVply from animal sand pulse - Protein Supply of food               EMPPLOYMENlT
derived fnon animals and pulses in grams par day.                                      Totai labor force (thousands) - icronomically active persons. Lnciudiog a-rmed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces sand unemployed hut secluding housawives. students, etc.  Osfici-
and in age group 1-4 years., to Children in this age group.                                cions In vsrious countrisa are not comparahle.
renals (perrent) - Famale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH!                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor forts In farming. forsurry, hunting and fishing
Life emPect.acy at birth (year) - Average number of years of life                            as percentage of total labor forces.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry foercent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufaccuring end
and 1971.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infest mortality rate (oar thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    ParticipatIon rece (nercent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of .ag  per thousand live birhts.                                                  seals. labor force as percentgags of their respective popiuc.icns.
ACcSes  to oafs water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    these are  -LiOn  adjusted participation  races reflecting ace-set
bunker of peopie (total, urban, and rural) with reasonabie access ton                      structure of the .poplation, and looc time trend.
oafs water supply (inducdes treated surface w.ater  or untreated but                   fionomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population ardor 15 asec 61 and ace-  -
uncontaminated water such as that froe protected borsholas, springs,                       the lsbor force in age grocy of Il-hi pears.
and san itary wella) an p.rerostage of their respactive populations.
to an urban area u pubiic fountain or standpost located iot nere                      INC0xi DISTRIBITTON
that 200 macens from s house. may he Considered as being within raa-                   Percenruge of privute intone (both in Cash and kind) received ho richot.t
ounablo access of that house.  In rural areas reasnanale access .unud                      percent, richest 210 percent, pooroec 20 percet, and pooes-i~ p--0c
imply icact the hou..wif. or canners of rho house.hold do cot have t                       of housholds..
upend a disproportinoatac part of the day to fetching the family's
water oeeds.                                                                          POVERTY -ARGET GROUPS
Actcess to. acrera disno...l (nercent of osnoI.icio) - total, urban, and                  Estioacad  babelute poverty i.c0m5 level  (150$ per Capita) - urban and coral-
rual  - Nlumber of People (total. urhan. sand  rurl) servd by  xacrtat                       Absolute poverty  -COcem level IS that Incme level below whichq a  cra
disposal an percentages of their respective populations.  EocretA                          nutritionally adequate diet plus estilnon-food requiremento  su -t
disposal asp Include the collection and disposal, with on without                          affordable.
tre-tmont, aEomuoceaad  at-ae.ywte-ontytm                                                aiMaLed relative poverty income level (iS$ oar Capita) - urban and cor-l 
or the  -o  of pit privies sod similar intlRtos                                             elative povrtry income level io that income level lass than ore-rhino
Population par physician - Population divided by nuohec of prac.ticing                       per capita pereonsi income of the counutry.
physician  qualIfied (non a medical School at university level.                         tatimated population below poverty incone level (percent)-onnadcrs-
Po-olti-o  -r oursina person - Population divided by number ofPretf                                        pplto    ubnadrrl   h   r   iher "absout p:'oor" or
-rcticing male and fenais graduate ouross. practical nurs, an. .d                           'relative poor" whicheve  is greeter.
toono..i,c and Social Dtat   ivso
Ecooni. c Analysis Sand P Dopactrert



*   4*0.fI~~*4.0A0C*4.   9.  .40   4*Sw4.                       U    00        0      . ...                           ............00
4.In.4 ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~~                       . ..            .. .. .. ..                   .......4       ..
-  .                  044                            sos   4.   0000    o   -.ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . .    ..    ..  f. o..        -
*  .,    a...  c   a  *   o    or               2   00          00    4.  4.   *022~~~.   . .. .     .  ..0       .   . . .
9   44..94..-~~~~~~~   o.cr-  .404900                     .02.                                      .     .    .  . . 
.4. .     . .                     .                  .    .~  4. .. .. .      .  0440             - 0.-l,bfl .                                                  4
.4.-- 0   94        40          C     O 4      -----------0                        9
94  *    o.o7  *4    0         CO...       0244.00                  40.. 00                           .0 C    .C..       C t.
04.....    .             . . .                 .      . . S          4....                 ...       .       .....0f t.
.     . .                    ...     ..         ...     ..              . 4 .                                044..                    .0 C. .           = 
.        ... .                       ....                 ...                  . ...  4. ...                          . . .400. .00.                   4....   .. I
4   4.  -   44    04.0              *9                 C              CC-Cl            OC       CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.           .. . .              .. . .                                   .. . .                   . ...                    .z .0n .r. . .~ .            =              
.                                               ...... . .....                                                            . .C  . . 
*  494     SO                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4.4404.  -                               40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
. ..     ..    ..     .. ..    ..      ..     . .        .     ..      ..     . .                                                                                  4
4.4.00  0  4                            2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.     ..        . .        ..         . .       ..         . .        ..      ..     ..        ..      .- .  4
04  4* 4  4.         -C-                                     o   - 



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
A [I I AC$MENI 4A, 8AL A^L   IIF PA YMtN IS s6.  t  It IONAL  S3I I ANCt
(MILLIONS UF US tI LLARiSI CURRENi MAHK8 T PRICLSI
Actualg                                                            ProJected 3/
196)   _  19.2    _,j  .._,..191) .  . .   _....  t..9 .98.0     1981 .                  2 1361  112  1982  19 J89.V    (.993
A. SU000ARYtOF BALANCE 00  PASYoNIS                                       f *                                                   *         f t        *
1. ExPORIS,  INtL. NhF                           5b5.0    949,0   11I7.O/I8ea.ol/ 2240.0   2783.0    3310.0   3924.o   4592,0   5137,0   9106.0  100S9.0
2. ImPONlS, Exlt. NtS                             23.0o    971.0   1519, o   416.0   1954.0   3052,0    4045oS    45i2.0   SIDS.0  5885.0  11403.0  186t.J.0
3, Rt9OUFtE tALANCf                              .68,0    -2!,0  t18u2,0  -225860 .t714.0  .849.0    -7e,9 0   -57S  o0  -513,0   -S4b,0 -eo97.o   -S.1.0
8, hEI fACIUR  StRVIC[E                          -17.0      3"0    376,0    3179.0    ale.0    305.0             355,0    371.0    41 .0    45Y.0    066.0    931.0
4,1. N1E  INT[RiST PAYNThlS                      -17,0    -29,0    -57.0   -129.0   -187.0   -21 30    _2o90o   -319.o  .*2S,0   .324.0   -441.0   -722,0
8*2, Ntl INVE31MEN1 INEUtl                       - 7(.    -26.0    -42.0    - 29.0    -54.0          -96.0    -109,0   -IZ0,0   -152.0   -IS4,60  -(50.0   -I0.00
4,1. NoRICEN't R41ttIlA&CES                       41.00    13.0    S47.U    589,0    71 .0    751.0              804,0    8t000    921.1    985.0   1313.0    85J3.0
4,4, UOHfP  (INl)                                .52.o    -10.0    -70.0    -52,0    .84          o,o 50.0       -50.0    *50,0    -So.0    .50.0    .50.0    -.50.0
s, CURPENT  tRANSFERs(hkI)                        13.0       42.0      69.0       52,0      66.0      48.0        52,0       55.0      5660       bJ,0       83.0    l 6,0
, CURIRENT ACClUUNI BALANCt                      .92,0       SS.0 .1155.0  -1827,0  ,1250.0  -834.0    -J22.0   *152.0    -41.0    .26,0  -134t.0    404,0
7. PRIVATE  DIREtC   INVEITMENI  (NET)             9.0      24.0       36,0       53.0      53.0      70.0        77.0      SS5.       93.0    102.0    ISO.0    241,0
tt. PUBLIC  M X LI LOANS                              *          a                    *                   *                      *         * a                   f
8,1. DISttURSEM4ENTS                               86,0    o11,0    7 A2.0   1213.0    792.0    821.0            960.0    933.0    942.0   1069,0   2411,0   1569.0
6,2. REPAYNE4IS                                  ,29,0    178,0    .04,0  -.05.0    294.0  -020.0    -052,0  ,r89,0 -o 9310  .85,0   -405,0  -1954.0
.,1, NET DISBURSEMENTS                            59.O       Jl 0    648.0   1168,0    496.0 o         91,0      114,0    144 0        49,0   271.0   14bb,0  -.35.0                       t 
9. SHURT IER4 CAPIIAL  (NET)                     -1860    -12.0        21.0       68,0      -5.0s.                                    *                          8
(0.NET USE OF ISF RESOURCES                           0      12,0    195.0           *       3't0     70.0         0.0       91.0       12,v      11,0
11, CAPITAL  N.[E,(    2/                        .j2.0      95.0    5S9.0    579.0    *18.0               *           8          8                     , *       a
12CHANGE  IN RtStbVES                            .19,0      s,o0   -114,0         41.0      12,0       37.0      -0.10       14.0    -89.0   -296.0   -2A6.0   -120,0
13.LLVEL OF RESERVES                                            A 8        *                                          f *  *  *  *                                         *
13.1. AMHUUON                                     21.0    2S7.o    491.0    SJ2.0    500.0    4b1.0              521,.0    50.0    599.0    697.0   1610.0    0801.0
15.2. MORNItiS INPUHIS                            0.         2.9       2,0        1.t       1.5        1.5         1.t       1.5        1,5       1,8        1.9       2.0
1, GRANT IL LUAN CUNNXI Nf NT35                                 a         *                    a         a           a                                                    * 0  A 
lo OFFICIAL GRANTS                                25,o       1.r0      (5.0       lo.0                                a 8  8     8                    f.
Z, TOTAL PUtILIC N I LI LOANS                      66,0    179,o    969.   195Q,0 o 184,8                 *           *          t         *t         f          f0
Z,2. IR0/IDA                                      8.0      9'1.0    150,0    (08.0    133.0 o                        f          a         f                               f
2.2. UTHIP INI'L INSlITU;IUN3                         o         0       4,0       10.0      170 o        ^                                           f *  
2,3. GIVERNMb"NTS                                 80.0      03.o    144,0    653,u    220,0                           *          *         *          f          f
2.4. SUPPLItERS CREDI73                                      10,0       6,0    (13.0         9,0          *           .          .         *          *          *
2,5.  COMPERCIAL BANKS                                0       3.0    bo3.o    936.0    9b5,0                          f *                  f          f.
C, MEMO  ITE0 0                                       *                    a *                            f           f          f         f          f          ft
1. GRANT EL14thT(I3                                   *     J0,8       15,9      11,2        8,9          A           f          f         f          f          ft
t. WVtRAGE  INERESIIs)                                f       5.3       7.2        1.5       '.5                                f *  *t
3, AVERAGE  448TURIT'MtARS)                           *     22.3       II.)      10,1       715                       f         f          f *                             f
.._.,,,_,__._.,_____._.-_____________.....................I-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_-__________._,____._.___._--------------............ _________.__________
1/   Including  *pecial military Import pay-ents vhfch *.r tentatively estimated by the .s..lon at
$590 .I1lion 1. 1976 .nd $530  tillo, In 1977.                                                                                                     Htrch 26, 1979
ENEMA CP 11,
2/   Incl-dtng grfnts.                                                                                                                                   /
3/   Projectiona are being revised by the Basic E-onomIc Hifalon.



*     a           -e .. N4.                      .4          .       . ..                             .
areA.  p'A4          ~          ~             ..      .         .. ..44.4   ..        
*    0W  Adt..C*.                           4                                                      a~~~~..    ..    ..    ..  
*   I-      O     1   A O                                                                                              *       -                  
*    _I                                                                                                                 I on
*  .                                                                                               I~~~~~~.. . . .. .  
*      I  *4                                  0000   o    C v *      *   4-  '00                             4          I 
*  a  -           . - .           -         . -    . . ..-             . .I .     ..    ..        
||v*                      #09             -- _ o                    Ar         d   - %' '^'v*       
*    -I           *SA             WW o o01 o o   <                                                                      I                        
*    44^          wr e*           Zw4           4          
to          e     I
*     a                          4 O *                                N      **       **
*                 *   4*    000,    *   S I - ~   -   '02     .         S   :
*    0*                 *0             210 e- o                  tAdO                         v^zzvv    
*    0.1                                                I                                                      IM W  I
o o   r                         r                                                     s 3~~~~o 
0      *                                 2s Mn-                                      s                                         I
- 4       00C        4   o-.       4      _        . *                            z                            IX   
*              4.. O4 Z. 2                              -..ze8          >        ~      z     
*        ,      4.. , i        AA              EM        064                                                        6                                  
{     ,  a_~_o*  S    .4..     .   ....             .                                                                   S   , ,v~



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of March 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                                 US$ Million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower                  Purpose          Bank       IDA!/   Undisbursed
Eleven   Loans      Fully disbursed                            174.9
Four     Credits   Fully disbursed                                        36.0
643      1969       Kingdom of Morocco        Irrigation        46.0               0.3
848      1972       CIH                       DFC (Tourism)    15.0                1.1
850      1972       ONEP                      Water Supply      48.0               4.5
936      1973       ONE                       Power             25.0               3.6
955      1974       Kingdom of Morocco        Highway           29.0               5.6
1017      1974       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0                4.4
1018      1974       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture       32.0              12.5
1061      1974       BNDE                      DFC               30.0               5.0
555      1975       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture                 14.0    13.7
1123      1975       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture       18.5               8.4
1201      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture       30.0              18.6
1202      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Tourism           21.0              18.7
1220-T    1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Education         25.0              25.0
1279      1976       CIH                       DFC (Tourism)    25.0                 6.4
1299      1976       Kingdom of Morocco        Power             49.0              33.9
1361      1977       CNCA                      Agriculture       35.0              17.1
1383      1977       CIOR                      Industry          45.0                4.9
1416      1977       Kingdom of Morocco        Agriculture       41.0               40.3
1428      1977       BNDE                      DFC               45.0              44.7
S-7      1977       Kingdom of Morocco        Engineering        1.5               1.5
1528      1978       Kingdom of Morocco        Urban Develop.   18.0               18.0
1602      1978       Kingdom of Morocco        Fes Karia Tissa  65.0               65.0
1625      1978       Maroc-Phosphore           Industry          50.0       _      50.0
Total                                                      918.9      50.0   403.2
of which has been repaid                                128.7       0.4
Total now outstanding                                      790.2     49.6
Amount sold                    20.4                                     -
of which has been repaid    6.2                           14.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             776.0      49.6
Total undisbursed                                          389.5      13.7   403.2
NOTES
l/ Prior to exchange adjustment
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan      Equity  Total
1962flS   YNDE                      Develop.Bank      --        2.7      2.7
1966      CIL                       Canning Factory  0.9        0.5      1.4
1976      1!arrakech Cement         Cement Factory   --         1.3      1.3
1977      Temara Cement             Cement Factory   4.8        2.4      7.2
Total gross commitments                          5.7       6.9    12.6
less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                             0.9       1.2     2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                4.8       5.7    10.5
Total undisbursed                                 -        0.2     0.2



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1   Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1979;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did
not compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has
established an interministerial commission to review the situation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Savings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts. Electricity rates were increased on average by 14 per-
cent on February 1, 1978, and again by 22 percent in January 1979.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on sched-
ule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule. The
Government recently requested that funds earmarked for the construction of
flood protection dykes be transferred to other infrastructure works related
to the Sebou I and II projects, in view of the high costs of such works, the
economic benefits which are less than originally estimated and the advance-
ment of the construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of
flooding. A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution
control is now proceeding satisfactorily; however the study on the incidence
of bilharzia on the Rharb plain has yet to be started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed on about 55 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are
now underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco have resulted in cutbacks
in the operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel.
While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped so far,
developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put under
irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project initially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. Project management and the coordination of
project activities between the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture have improved but continue to require close
monitoring. A revised land reform and redistribution program which meets the
project's objectives is currently under preparation.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,200 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
clearly monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Over one half of the Bank
loan has been disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by
August 31, 1979, as scheduled.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
has started operation in January 1979.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in a 1 to
2 year delay in completing the project.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of January 31, 1979 amounted to US$25 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. The loan became effective on August 26, 1978.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. The loan became effective on November 21, 1978,
and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Borrower to                    12 months (November 1977 to
prepare Project:                                November 1978)
(b)  Agencies responsible for Project                 Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
preparation:                                     (CNCA) with assistance from the
Bank
(c)  Project identified:                              November 1977
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:                       November/December 1978
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:              April 24, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                   September 1, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) CNCA and Government to maintain CNCA's compensation and incentive systems
competitive (para. 46).
(b) CNCA and Bank to review experimental lending conditions applied by the
Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole (CLCA), and CNCA to supervise a sample
of CLCA clients (para. 48).
(c) Interest rate on agroindustry loans (para. 49).
(d) CNCA to raise interest rates or fees to limit Government subsidy to
30 percent of CLCA expenses, and to ensure profitable operation of
CNCA's head office/lending by the Caisses Regionales de Credit Agricole
(CRCA) (para. 49).
(e) Agro-industry subproject evaluation criteria, (para. 50).
(f) Bank approval for first agroindustrial subloan in five different branches
and for subloans for investments exceeding DH 2.5 million (para. 50).
(g) Staffing of an agroindustry unit in CNCA and coordination with Technical
Assistance Unit in Office de Developpement Industriel (para 51).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(h) The effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the signature KfW loan agreement
(conditions of effectiveness) and the failure to declare KfW loan effec-
tive (condition of suspension) (para. 54).
(i)  Government to bear foreign exchange risk (para. 54).
(j) Limitation on CNCA's debt-equity and current ratios (para. 55).
(k) CNCA to verify compliance with procurement procedures for agroindustrial
subloans (para. 56).



