Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19507
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2238-UNI)
June29, 1999
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 29, 1999)
Currency unit = Naira
US$1.00 = NGN 98.28
SDR I =US$1.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA            Collaborating Agency            NGO           Non-govermnental Organizations
DCA           Development Credit Agreement    NISER         National Institute of Social and
DCDPA         Department of Community                       Economic Research
Development and Population     NPC I          National Planning Commission
Activities                     NPC 2          National Population Conmission
DHS           Department of Hospital Services    NPP        National Population Project
DPA           Department of Population        PAF           Population Activities Fund
Activities                     PAFA           Population Activities Fund Agency
EEC           European Economic Community    PHC            Primary Health Care
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria   PICB          Population Information and
FMOE          Federal Ministry of Education                 Communications Branch
FMOF          Federal Ministry of Finance     PIUJ          Project Implementation Unit
FMOH          Federal Ministry of Health      POP/FLE       Population/Family Life Education
FMOI          Federal Ministry of Information  PPFN         Planned Parenthood Federation of
FP            Family Planning                               Nigeria
GCF           Governing Council of Population    PRF        Population Research Fund
Activity Fund                  RH             Reproductive Health
HEB           Health Education Branch         SA            Special Account
ICR           Implementation Completion Report  SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
IDA           International Development       STD           Sexually Transmitted Disease
Association                    TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
IEC           Information, Education, and     TFR           Total Fertility Rate
Communication                  UNFPA          United Nations Fund for
KAP           Knowledge Attitude and Practices              Population Activities
MCH           Maternal Child Health           USAID         United States Agency for
MTR           Mid-term Review                               International Development
NCE           National Council on Education   7HW           Village Health Worker
NERDC         National Education, Research, and
Development Council
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:  Yaw Ansu (AFC12)
Sector Manager:   Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader: Anne Okigbo (AFMNG)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2238-UNI)
INIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                                    ..
I . INTRODUCTION. .                   ............... 1
A.  Macroeconomic Setting                                 .         .          .          1
B.     The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector                ..2
IL     PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................                   ..                  .2
A.  Original Project Objectives                            .         .         .          2
B.   Project Description and Components .                     ..                         3.
C.   Credit Covenants and Special Agreements                     .        .       .       4
D.                                                         ........................................ .. . . ..4
e..................... Evaluation of Project Objectives ..5
Ill..  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS                              ...6
A.     Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability  ..
B.     Sununarv of Project Costs................................................... ...................7
C.   .................. Summan, of FinancingArrangements ..7
D.     SmlmnatinaSchedule             .     ...........................................7
E.     Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation                .       .      .      B
F.     Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance                                9
-V.    SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ... 10
A.     Important Findings of Project Implementation ...          .............................................................. 10
B.     Future Operation ................................................................. .  11
C.     Lessons for Future Projects in the Health Sector in Nigeria . ......................................................... 11
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4A:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual Amounts
Table4B:    Credit Disbursements Prior to Cancellation
Table 5:     Key Activities for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Supervision Missions
APPENDICES
A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
B. Nigeria: National Population Policy, Goals, and Objectives
C. Aide-Memoire
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2238-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Population
Project in Nigeria for which Credit 223 8-UNI was approved on June 17, 1991 in the amount
of SDR 54.2 million (US$78.5 million equivalent), and which was made effective on
February 10, 1992. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998. It was disbursed up to
the amount of SDR 7.35 million (US$10.39 million equivalent) with the final disbursement
taking place on September 28, 1998. The undisbursed amount of SDR 2.04 million
(US$2.767 million equivalent) was canceled. The original Credit amount was amended in a
letter to the Borrower on May 5, 1998; and both the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel
SDR 44.8 million (US$60.3 million equivalent) of the allocation for Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4
of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement (Part A of the Project) due to non-
compliance of the Borrower's obligations following the Mid-term Review.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Anne Okigbo (AFMNG) assisted by Pauline Oti (Local
Consultant), Miriam Ruminsky, Barbara Machado (AFTH3), and Ross Pfile (Consultant). It
was reviewed by Mohammed Lecky (FMOH), Jerome Chevallier (Consultant), Maria
MacDonald (EASHD), A. Edward Elmendorf (AFTH3), Elizabeth Morris-Hughes (AFTH3),
Ok Pannenborg (AFTH4), and Helena Ribe (Sector Manager for AFTH3). The Borrower
provided its own report which is included in Appendix A.
3.    This ICR relies heavily on the products and outcomes of the evaluation process
carried out during supervision missions, as well as the evaluation reports from the
Borrower's consultants conducted in preparation for the Mid-term Review meeting held in
June 1997. The preparation of this ICR was begun in January 1999 and is based on
information in the project files, discussions with the Borrower and stakeholders, as well as
some former Task Managers of the project. The findings of the draft ICR were discussed
with the Borrower and the implementing agencies in a meeting which took place in April
1999. Substantive issues were discussed, and the Borrower generally agreed with the Bank's
findings. However, they considered that the Collaborating Agencies had achieved more than
was indicated in the ICR, and rated the project substantially higher than the Bank. The
Borrower's ICR is attached as Appendix A. Additionally, selected visits to some of the
Collaborating Agencies were conducted.



i
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2238-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector. The project under review is the
fifth IDA-funded project aimed at improving the health sector in Nigeria. Earlier projects
include the Sokoto Health Project (LN-2503, approved in 1985 for an amount of US$34.0
million equivalent); the Imo Health Project (LN-3034, approved in 1989 for an amount of
US$27.6 million equivalent); the National Essential Drugs Project (LN-3125, approved in
1989 for an amount of US$68.1 million equivalent); and the Health Systems Fund Project
(LN-3326, approved in 1991 for an amount of US$74.0 million equivalent), for total sector
commitments of US$183.7 million equivalent. The National Population Project differed
from the earlier health projects because of its multi-State and multi-sectoral approaches
which were brought about by the urgent need to respond to the country's rapidly growing
population through the development of intersectoral activities and synergism to address the
following issues: pervasive early marriages; close and multiple pregnancies; and the
prevailing pronatalist culture and male preference, which tended to constitute barriers to
fertility regulation, population management, or both (para. 2). Activities by other donors in
the sector formed the basis for the design of this Bank-financed project, which required a
new and innovative approach to financing population activities (para. 5).
2.    Objectives of the NPP. The goal of the project was to strengthen the institutional
framework and expand the capacity for undertaking a large-scale, intersectoral population
program. The overall objectives were (a) to promote improvements in the economic well-
being, health and general welfare of Nigerians through a slowed population growth and
reduced fertility; (b) to assist institutions to devise approaches to the provision of population-
related information and services; and (c) to fund subprojects to be designed and implemented
by sectoral ministries, NGOs and communities (para. 7).
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project realized only a few of the objectives,
and overall the achievement of project objectives is rated as "negligible." Only two years of
the project's seven year life-span were devoted to active project implementation, and low
implementation levels characterized all components of the NPP (see table 1; para. 16-23).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability.  Project sustainability is
unlikely. Nonetheless, although very little was achieved, the seeds have been planted, and
the minute advancements will require funds in order to grow. The project made a significant
contribution to bringing population issues to national prominence through awareness raising
among policy-makcers, and the involvement of other government agencies and NGO in the
population agenda. While government agencies have developed certain capacities, it is
evident that large amounts of funds will be required to make an appreciable impact in this
sector. Unless the government intervenes and allocates more funds to the sector, supported
by other external clonors, the initiatives started by this project will not survive (para. 24).
5.    Summary of Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project cost
amounted to US$16.5 million compared with an appraisal estimate of US$93.6 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$26.2 million (28 percent). The
difference between projected and actual project costs is significant and can be attributed to
the low implementation levels and the under-utilization of the Credit (para. 28-29).
6.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation. The main factor
exogenous to the project that affected imLplementation was the disruptive and unstable
political environment (para. 32). Institutional management responsibilities were unclear, and
personality, rivalry, and role conflicts negatively impacted project implementation (para. 33).
During project preparation, the limited technical and professional skills available in the DPA
were identified as a constraint. To a limited extent, the skills of experienced staff who were
brought in to DP'A and PAFA were upgraded (para. 34). Credit disbursements were
suspended a total of three times throughout the life of the project; twice because of financial
mismanagement, and once because of non-compliance with the recommendations of the
MTR (para. 35-40). Finally, while the prcject design was conceptually sound, it was not
operationally feasible; the overall objectives of the NPP and those of its subprojects were
broad, which in practice, led to the duplication and overlapping of some subproject activities.
While an attempt was made during the MTR. to convert project objectives into indicators for
measuring project performance, specific indlicators for monitoring and supervision, both at
the level of individlual subprojects and at the level of the overall project, were clearly lacking
(para. 41).
7.    Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's overall
performance is ralted deficient in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of the NPP;
identification of the project is rated satisfactory.  While higher than average risks-
ambivalence to population issues, limited implementation capacity, and political instability-
were correctly identified during preparation, various measures to mitigate against the first
two were unrealistic. The problems encountered during implementation can be traced back
to structural design flaws. Finally, while the consistent support provided from the Resident
Mission may explain the optimistic ratings the project received on developmental objectives
until July 1997, there was an additional problem created by the frequent turnover of Bank
Task Managers. Thus contributed to a disruptive atmosphere in an already difficult project



iii
(para. 42-44).  The Borrower's performance during project implementation was not
satisfactory. Of the seven government entities involved in Phase 1, only a few have, to a-
limited extent, been able to implement the work programs developed. Additionally, project
implementation responsibilities were not handled professionally. Rather than place the
project's interests first, individual and organizational interests took precedence often
resulting in fighting and disagreements among those tasked with implementing the project
(para. 45).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience.  During project
implementation, Nigeria faced many difficulties, and the prospects for economic
developments were poor. This situation was worsened by the fact that, in the last four years
of the project, an almost complete withdrawal of donor assistance took place, leaving a
number of key population activities under-funded.  On a more general plane, the
development and implementation of the project was a major challenge in view of the
sensitive religious and cultural issues involved; the objectives were far too ambitious to be
implemented successfully (para. 46-47).
9.    Sustainability of the very limited achievements of the project is unlikely, and
concrete activities for sustainability were not agreed upon prior to credit closure. However,
the fundamental objectives of the project are still valid given recent demographic trends.
Also, given its pilot nature, the project made a significant contribution to bringing population
issues to national prominence. Any future support to population activities will need to take
into account the lessons learned from project implementation and those found in other
population projects in Sub-Saharan African countries which include:
*  Changing trends in population management, policy, and practice. In reviewing the
lessons learned from this project, it is important to note the change in the Bank's thinking
on population and FP activities. This change followed the adoption of the Program of
Action at the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo in
1994, which endorses a broad package of activities for reproductive health including safe
motherhood and management of STD and HIV/AIDS. The Cairo reproductive health
approach might be more suitable and effective than the previous demographic focus on
population issues, in a country such as Nigeria.
* Public support and political commitment to population issues: Due to the sensitive and
multi-sectoral nature of population issues, more attention should be paid to building
political commitment among the various actors in order to ensure strong continuous
leadership; both of which are essential for legitimizing and enhancing the acceptability of
FP activities.
* Greater community involvement in FPprograms. Future projects should aim at focusing
on the state and local government levels with simple, concrete components. Failure to



iv
adequately address the client's needs and concerns can result in lost time and
opportunities.
Project design. Given the complexity of the project design and the weak institutional
capacity, the project should have made provisions for an earlier review or possibly a
shorter duration which would have perrmitted either redesign or exit. Future projects
should have fewer components, and one or two clearly stated objectives. Measurable
indicators should be part of the project design and an operational monitoring and
evaluation program should be jointly agreed with the Borrower. Equally important in
any program that involves more than one sector, is a clear development and delineation
of roles and responsibilities agreed upon with each of the sectoral agencies; additionally,
political and institutional consensus is required.
* Inclusion of a contraceptive/commodities component in any future population project.
While it was included during the MTR in 1997, the initial omission of a
contraceptive/commodities component in the NPP was an important oversight. This
assumed greater significance with the withdrawal of USAID, who had been the major
provider of contraceptives for Nigeria. Efforts should be made to secure participation of
the private sector in population programs. It should also be recognized that in a country
with such a large population, the public sector alone, even with the best intentions, could
never respond to the country-wide need for contraceptives.
*  The Bank's supervisory role. Future projects in the sector would benefit from the Bank
assuming a moire active and consistent role in project supervision. Clear, more relevant,
and timely decisions, and a more realistic view of project implementation were needed.
Additionally, thle turnover of Bank staff resulted in supervisory and managerial oversight.
Finally, care must be taken in future projects with conditionalities requiring changes in
institutions through legislative action r ather than changes taking place in existing
institutions as a consequence of project irmplementation.
*  Evolving donor partnership and collaboration. With several donors already working on
population activities in Nigeria, and the expected entrance of more, it will become
necessary to work increasingly collaboratively with external partners in future programs.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2238-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   IN'RODUCTION
A.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.    Nigeria, with an estimated population of 110 million,' is the most populous country
in Africa, and ranks among the 13 poorest countries in the world according to the UNDP
Human Development Index. The country's basic social indicators are alarming: a maternal
mortality rate of 1,000 per 100,000 births; an infant mortality rate of 114 per 1,000 live
births; and a life expectancy at birth of 54 years. With a total fertility rate (TFR) of 5.84 in
1987, the population is expected to grow at 3 percent per annum, and reach 225.6 million by
the year 2025. The country's demographic and health profile has been further exacerbated
by the downward trend in earnings from petroleum products (the mainstay of the Nigerian
economy) due to price fluctuations and economic mismanagement. Per capita income is
estimated at US$260 in 1997 with more than 65 percent of the population living on less than
US$1 per day. Overall, economic performance in Nigeria has declined since the late 1970s
and poverty has risen sharply.
2.   In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the lack of basic demographic information, coupled
with a strongly pronatalist culture, discouraged Nigerian policy-makers from promoting
fertility reduction. The importance of large families was magnified by religious and cultural
biases, and attempts to promote smaller family sizes were turned into political matters. This
attitude began to change in the 1980s as the country's leaders became increasingly aware that
high population growth rates, the negative effects of close and frequent births, and the
impact of a relatively young population on developmental efforts threatened the country's
economic progress and quality of life. The change in attitude prompted the government to
approve the country's first National Population Policy in 1988.
3.    The National Population Policy includes a series of programs which established, for
the first time, concrete targets for population activities with two target dates: 1995 and
2000.2 The policy also provided for a multi-sectoral National Population Project (NPP).
The Department of Population Activities (DPA), which was later renamed the Department of
Community Development and Population Activities (DCDPA), was established in the
Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) with a mandate to provide the technical expertise to
plan, coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the implementation of the National Population
Policy.
11991 Population Census of the Federal Republic Of Nigeria, NPC, April 1998. Projected mnid-yearpopulation
(high variant) for the year 2000.
2 The Nigeria Population Policy Goals, Objectives, and Targets can be found in Appendix B.



2
B.   THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND THE SECTOR
4.    The Bank's previous assistance to Nigeria's health sector included four projects for a
total of US$183.7 million equivalent. In thle late 1980s, the Bank financed two health
projects in the Sokoto and Imo regions (LN-2503 and LN-3034, respectively) which aimed
at providing basic primary health care services to the rural population through the
rehabilitation and construction of health facilities at the community level. In 1991, the Bank
financed the National Essential Drugs Project (LN-3125), which established a national
essential drugs list and created a system tD ensure the continuous supply of safe and
affordable drugs in seven states. The Health Systems Fund Project (LN-3326), approved in
1992, aimed at creating a wholesaling mechanism to finance health services in 17 states.
Technical support is also being provided by the Federal Ministry of Health.
5.    Active donors in the sector were the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (IJNFPA).
USAID supported increasing the use of modern contraception from the 1987 prevalence rate
of 6 percent, to the Nigerian government's target of exceeding 20 percent by the year 2000.
UNFPA supported nation-wide FP activities. Small grants were also provided by the
Planned Parent Federation of Nigeria (PPFN), the European Economic Community (EEC)
and the Ford Foundation. Despite these programs, the on-going population activities did not
sufficiently integrate family planning (FP) activities into primary health care (PHC); nor was
there adequate contraceptive back-up services or training related to reproductive health
through public sector hospitals. In addition, there were limited Infonnation, Education, and
Communication (IEC) campaigns. Finally, there was no solid effort to integrate population
activities into the planning and budgeting process.
6.    The gaps mentioned above formed the basis for the design the Bank-financed project
under review. Therefore, a multi-sectoral program was prepared, and in June 1991 IDA
extended a Credit of SDR 54.2 million (US$ 78.5 million equivalent) to finance the NPP. To
this end, a new and innovative approach to finance population activities included the
establishment of a population activities fund (PAF). As a result, the Population Activities
Fund Agency (PAFA_) was established as a parastatal to manage the PAF.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project's goal was to strengthen the institutional framework and to expand the
capacity for undertaking a large scale inter-sectoral national population program. The
overall objectives were to: (a) promote improvements in the economic well-being, health,
and general welfare of Nigerians through slowed population growth and reduced fertility; (b)
assist institutions in devising approaches to the provision of population-related information
and services; and (c) fund subprojects to be designed and implemented by sectoral ministries,
Non-governmental Organizations (NGO), and communities. Initially, seven subprojects
were designed during project preparation and were to be implemented by collaborating
agencies (CA) representing the Ministries of Health, Education, and Information, the



3
National Planning Commission (NPC 1), and the National Population Commission (NPC 2),
a government parastatal.
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
8.    The project consisted of two parts. Part A comprised: (a) the establishment of a
fund (PAF) managed by the PAFA, which would provide the financing for the subprojects to
be launched and implemented by the CA; (b) capacity strengthening of DPA, to provide the
technical support to the CA; and (c) for PAFA and DPA to collaboratively develop liaisons
with local and international donors and provide administrative and organizational support to
the CA. The subprojects were to be implemented in two phases: Phase 1 focused on the
seven subprojects developed during project preparation, and was to be implemented during
the first three years of the project. Phase 2 was to focus on implementation of the
subprojects (to be prepared later) at the state, local government, and community levels, as
well as in the private sector. Project implementation never reached Phase 2.
9.    The Phase 1 subprojects each had its own specific objectives which focused on:
(a) Information, Education, and Communication (IEC). There were three subprojects in this
category. The Health Education Branch (HEB) of the FMOH subproject aimed at
promoting FP activities through health education; the Nigerian Education Research and
Development Council (NERDC) of the Federal Ministry for Education (FMOE) subproject
aimed at promoting population and family life education through primary education; and the
Population Information and Communications Branch (PICB) of the Federal Ministry of
Information (FMOI) subproject aimed at increasing population and FP education through
public awareness raising.
(b) FP service delivery. The two subprojects in this category were to be implemented by
departments of the FMOH. The Maternal Child Health/Family Planning Department
(MCH/FP) subproject aimed at ensuring the integration of FP activities into maternal and
child health by promoting systematic practices of FP in the context of MCH services. The
Department of Hospital Services (DHS) subproject aimed at strengthening secondary and
tertiary centers for reproductive health by providing access, specialized technical training,
supervision, and research services.
(c) Data management. There were also two subprojects in this category. The NPC 1
subproject aimed at ensuring the integration of demographic variables into national and state
development plans as a criterion for effecting a more efficient distribution of resources. The
NPC 2 subproject aimed at providing feedback to policy-makers by monitoring demographic
trends through a sentinel survey system.
10.   Part B of the project was a research component aimed at exploring the determinants
of fertility and contraceptive use in Nigeria, in order to overcome the barriers to FP
activities. These efforts were to be supported by the Population Research Fund (PRF),
which was managed by the National Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER).
PRF activities included: (i) identifying innovative interventions in population activities; (ii)
identifying, measuring, analyzing, and assessing the impact of population programs in order
to propose concrete strategies for consolidation, and to sustain the successes and/or
elimination of undesirable effects; (iii) monitoring and evaluating population research



4
projects and ensuring dissemination of the results; and (iv) improving data collection,
research, and analytical capacities at the central level. Research findings from Part B would
have provided the thematic areas and data for interventions to be developed as part of Phase
2.
C.   CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
11.   The Borrower was rated "deficient" in covenant compliance; the six covenants which
addressed financial issues such as the establishment of PAF, PRF submission of PRF
workplans, and counterpart funding were complied with delay. Four covenants dealing with
maintaining PAF and PAFA, audits, maintenance of financial records, and the organization
of annual meetings were complied with partially (table 9). After considerable delays, the
Borrower complied with two other covenants, namely counterpart funding requirements and
scheduling of the Mid-term Review (MTR).
12.   The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in September 1996 to
clarify conflicting interpretations relating to the percentage of expenditures to be financed.
Specifically, Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 were deleted and new goods and services
categories were substituted (para. 36).
13.   During the MvITR in June 1997, the Bank proposed a major restructuring of the project
because PAFA and DPA were unable to effectively collaborate, thereby impeding
implementation of project activities. An attemrpt was made by the Bank to address the basic
institutional design flaws which gave PAFA the financial responsibility, and the DPA the
technical responsibility. The Bank proposed that overall responsibility for both the financial
and technical management of the project be assumed by DPA. The Bank placed the
following conditions on the Borrower:  (a) the establishment of a small project
implementation unit (PIU) in the DPA; (b) the hiring of a project manager, procurement
officer, finance officer, and program officer as well as support staff to manage the unit; and
(c) that the work plans for the remaining 12 months be sent to the Bank. The FMOH agreed
to make the institutional changes proposed by the Bank. The revised work plans were
received by the Bank. The FMOH also sent a memo to the Head of State for signature to
effect the changes. It was not signed nor put irnto effect.
14.   PAFA, however, disagreed with the Bank's recommendations because the Bank had
insisted, as a condition of effectiveness, that PAFA be established by legal Decree. PAFA
and the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMOF) argued that the dissolution of PAFA would
require another Decree. PAFA was also reluctant to be abolished, and instead proposed that
their agency hire program officers and additionlal staff to enable it to technically manage the
project. This proposal was not accepted by the Bank, and resulted in the suspension of
disbursements under Part A, and eventual cancellation of the Credit.
D.   RisKs
15.   The main risk envisaged was the strong socio-cultural and religious opposition to
family planning. Other risks to successful project implementation were: (a) the limited
capacity of institutions responsible for project implementation; (b) the profound political



5
changes anticipated in Nigeria in 1992, shortly after project launch; and (c) the difficulty for
Government to provide adequate budgetary support.
E.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
16.   Overall, the achievement of project objectives is rated as negligible. All project
components were characterized by low implementation levels (table 1). In fact, during the
seven-year life span of the project, only two years were devoted to active implementation.
Few indicators for monitoring and evaluating were included in the original project design,
and none were included in the DCA. However, it was expected that indicators would be
developed through sentinel surveys to monitor the performance of the initial seven
subprojects. As this subproject began implementation three years late, PAFA developed
some process indicators. Given that the NPP is comprised of subprojects, an overall
assessment must take into account the achievements of each of the subprojects, which are
evaluated below.
17.  Institution building. The establishment of PAFA, PRF, and DPA was viewed as the
key to ensuring the achievement of at least two of the sixteen initial objectives. These were
partially achieved with the establishment of both the PAF (with Credit funds) and PAFA.
Other project institutional objectives, which were also partially achieved (para. 18), included
the strengthening of DPA in the FMOH, the establishment of PIU responsible for
implementation of the initial subprojects, and the PRF. Competent staff were hired in these
agencies and start-up equipment was provided under the Credit.
18.   Management issues. Coordination between PAFA and DPA was not an explicit
objective of the project, but they were expected to work together to form a sustainable
system for ensuring the development, implementation, and monitoring of subprojects.
Ultimately, the success of the project was predicated on the ability of these two institutions
to work together. This expectation did not materialize. From the beginning, there were
inherent inequalities between PAFA and DPA that would later develop into problems and
conflicts in the way the system operated. For example, PAFA had a full complement of
skilled staff from inception, while the DPA lacked the requisite technical staff for the first
three years following Credit effectiveness. While the PAFA staff had their salaries paid
from the Credit, DPA did not; finally, PAFA controlled access to the funds. Continued
friction between PAFA and the DPA adversely affected implementation. In contrast, the
PRF had a separate special account (SA) and was devoid of the managerial/operational
problems experienced by PAFA and DPA.
19.   Capacity strengthening. Overall, this objective was only partially achieved as only
one-third of the training planned for the CA staff actually took place. However, the majority
of those trained were not able to practice their acquired skills due to the lack of equipment
and supplies, and to the managerial problems discussed above.
20.  IEC subprojects. Negligible achievements were recorded by the IEC subprojects.
However, a number of staff from the HEB benefited from overseas training courses. A
Knowledge Attitude Practices (KAP) survey was conducted, and led to the development of
instructional materials. However, these have yet to be disseminated to the 40 pilot schools,
local government education officers, or headmasters. Additionally, a population desk was



6
established at the Nigerian Television Authority and within the Federal Radio Corporation of
Nigeria. Documentation of related activities is not available.
21.   Service delivery. Negligible achievements were recorded by the service delivery
subproject. Health fofficers/clinical service providers from 14 states received training in FP
logistics and management, as well as in new trends in FP activities. A training manual for
village health workers (VHW) and traditional birth attendants (TBA) was developed and
field tested, but the manual has not yet been printed for distribution to project executing
agencies. A needs assessment on various types of civil works was conducted, but did not
progress beyond the development of bills of quantities.
22.   Data management.  Achievements in the data management subproject were
negligible. The NPC 1 subproject started late in 1995, and did not fully complete its capacity
building activities by Credit closing. A sentinel survey was conducted and has been
disseminated locally and internationally by the UNFPA. One out of four follow-up surveys
was conducted in 1998. There was, however, marginal success in integrating population
concerns into development planning.
23.   Part B. Part B of the project was partially successful.  Seventy-one research
proposals on issues of adolescent reproductive behavior, the role of men in FP activities, the
socio-economic determinants of the value of children, and the economic incentives and
disincentives for the reduction of family size were approved. Of this number, 54 were
completed in 1998, and the other 17 have been submitted in final draft form (table 6). Since
Part A of the project, which these studies were to feed into, had been suspended by the time
of their completion, they have had no impact on the project under review, but can be used in
future projects in the sector.
Il.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Although very little was achieved, seeds have been planted that require nuturing in
order to grow. Further support would therefore be needed from the government as well as
donors.  Concrete activities for sustainability, which included the preparation and
development of a five-year (1999-2004) strategic plan for population activities, were
discussed at the MTR. However, no agreement was reached prior to project closing.
25.   Ownership of the NPP, a major criterion for sustainability, did not emerge. The
development of the project was perceived by the Nigerian counterparts as Bank-driven with
limited contributions from other stakeholders, with the exception of the incumbent Minister
of Health. This was clearly evident when the project, which had been taken to the
Ministerial Cabinet for approval, was rejected each of the four times it was presented. It
finally gained approval only after the incumbent Minister of Finance, who had vetoed the
project, was removed from office in a cabinet reshuffle.
26.   In spite of the above, the project made a significant contribution to bringing
population issues to national prominence through awareness raising among policy-makers,



7
and the involvement of other government agencies and NGO in the population agenda. The
Vision 2010 panel set up by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) laid the foundation
for future policy/programs in the sector. The NPP provided some opportunity for institution
and capacity building among the implementing agencies and exposed the subproject
personnel to experiences in other countries for comparison, adoption, or adaptation.
27.   The lack of continuity in ministerial portfolios exacerbated the problems of
ownership. From the onset, until credit closing, there were four changes in government and
Head of State, six different ministers at the helm of FMOH, each with their respective
agendas, of which population was not a priority, and three directors of the DPA. In a
situation of constantly changing political leadership and portfolios with no clear and direct
commitment to NPP, ownership can not be expected to emerge.
B.   SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
28.   At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$93.6 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$26.2 million (28 percent). Base cost estimates
are in December 1990 prices. Actual total project cost was US$16.2 million of which
US$3.7 million was in foreign exchange.
29.   The difference between projected and actual total project cost is significant. Table
7A itemizes these differences by cost category and project component. The difference in the
estimated versus actual costs is attributable to the under-utilization of the Credit. Many
activities that were to be managed by PAFA were cancelled in May 1998. However, the
actual Credit resources used by PAFA to manage the PAY exceeded the appraisal estimates
(table 4B). This category supported PAFA's recruitment of consultants, the purchase of
equipment and vehicles, as well as travel, salaries, and PAFA's incremental expenses.
C.   SUMMARY OF FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
30.   The initial Credit amount was SDR 54.2 million (US$78.5 million equivalent), of
which a total of US$4 million was set aside to support the PRF component (Part B), to be
managed by NISER. The first phase of the seven subproject components was to be fully
implemented within three years of Credit effectiveness. The financing plan of the project
included 83 percent from the Bank; 16 percent from the FGN; and 1 percent from an NGO.
A total of SDR 7.45 million (US$10,517,560.10 equivalent) was disbursed, with the
remaining SDR 44.8 million (US$60,295,424.00 equivalent) being canceled on May 1, 1998.
The final disbursement took place on June 21, 1999.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
31.   Project preparation took two years. The first identification mission took place in
March 1989, with Board Presentation in May 1991 and the signing of the DCA in June 1991.
The project became effective on February 10, 1992 and closed on December 31, 1998.
While the MTR should have been scheduled before June 30, 1994, it did not actually take
place until June 30, 1997 (eighteen months before the closing date). Credit disbursements to



8
the SA were suspended three times; twice in 1995 and the third time in April 1998 (para. 35-
7); once in 1995 as a result of financial mismanagement, and the second time in April 1998.
E.    KEY FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
32.   Political instability.  The main factor exogenous to the project that affected
implementation was the disruptive and unstable political environment. The annulment of the
June 12, 1993 presidential elections led to six months of civil strife in parts of Nigeria.
There was a reoccurrence of civil strife in June 1994 on the anniversary of the annulment.
The result was that project implementation during this period ground to a halt.
33.   Unclear institutional management responsibilities.    Although  the  overall
responsibility for the technical management of the population fund was assigned to DPA,
and financial management to PAFA, in fact, th:e more detailed allocation of these activities to
the respective agencies, as specified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was confusing.
Early in the project, PAFA assumed program and operational responsibilities due to the lack
of technical capacity in DPA. PAFA further consolidated its mandate with the backing of a
Decree in 1994. This Decree ascribed to PAFA detailed objectives and activities, which
were originally the purview of the DPA, as detailed in the National Population Policy.
Consequently, personality, rivalry, and role conflicts between PAFA and the DPA emerged
impacting negatively on implementation.
34.   Technical capacity. For the DPA in particular, as mentioned above, the initial lack of
skilled staff was a handicap to asserting its mandated role and resulted in a lack of
credibility.  Another problem  that arose was that trained personnel were frequently
transferred, resulting in changes in project personnel and implementation delays as the new
officers became familiar with the project. This situation later stabilized, and by Credit
closing DPA had a full complement of skilled staff.
35.   Suspensions to the Special Accounts. The SA were suspended three times: for a
period of 5 months from April 1995 to September 1995; for a period of 20 months from
September 1995 to May 1997; and from July 1997 until project closure in May 1998.
36.   The first suspension of disbursements to the SA resulted from  the differing
interpretation of Schedule 1 of the DCA. Parlt 1 of Schedule 1 provides for the percentages
of expenditures to be financed from the Credit as 100 percent, and up to 85 percent of the
total cost of the subprojects for Categories 1, 2a, and 2b. The Bank understood this to mean
that the FGN should provide 15 percent of all counterpart funding (both foreign and local) in
foreign currency. In contrast, the Borrower understood this provision to mean that 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures were to be met by the
Credit; thus, counterpart funding will be in local currency-the Naira. The Bank's insistence
that the Borrower make its counterpart contiibutions in foreign currency led to the non-
replenishment of the SA. This was eventually resolved through an amendment to the Credit
in September 1996 clarifying the categories and percentages to be paid from the Credit and
stating that the Borrower's contribution could be made in local currency.
37.   The second suspension occurred in September 1995 to Part A of the project's SA and
was not lifted until May 1997. The 20-month suspension of the SA effectively stopped



9
project implementation. This suspension was the result of unauthorized deposits totaling
US$2 million placed in speculative financial houses, which failed in February 1993. This
was mentioned in the project's audit reports for 1994 and subsequently, discussed
extensively with the Bank during a mission in November 1994. As a result of an intemar
investigation, three PAFA staff suspected of financial mismanagement were suspended and
subsequently fired. In its aide-memoire, the Bank recorded the efforts of PAFA to recover
the money and agreed that further speculative investments would not be made. The issue of
investments surfaced again eight months later when the Bank sought clarification as to
whether the funds were taken from the SA or project account, and a mission comprising two
Bank internal auditors was sent to examine the project accounts. The report of the internal
auditors commended PAFA's accounting procedures and documentation for the statement of
expenditures contained in an aide-memoire of April 26, 1996.
38.   In spite of the above, the Bank requested an additional audit of the accounts. The
report of the audit was forwarded to the Bank in July 1996 and concluded that the funds were
taken from the project account and not the SA. At the Portfolio Performnance Review
Meeting on World Bank projects in Nigeria in September 1996, an agreement was reached
between the Bank and the FMOF that the embargo placed on the SA would be lifted before
the end of September 1996.
39.   However, the Bank requested a second Special Audit which was to include the listing
of all account transactions. The report of this second audit was submitted to the Bank in
December 1996, and reiterated the conclusion that the funds were taken from the project
account and not the SA.
40.   The third suspension took place two months after the previous suspension had been
lifted. This suspension was the result of the Borrower's non-compliance with the Bank's
proposal during the MTR in 1997 to restructure the institutional management of the project,
giving financial and managerial responsibilities to the DPA (para. 13).
41.   Project design. The project design was too complex to be implemented in a country
with a history of instability and weak institutional capacity. While the overall project
concept was sound, it was operationally unfeasible. Furthermore, the overall objectives of
the NPP and those of its subprojects were broad. This led to the duplication and overlapping
of some of the subproject activities. It was only during the MTR that an effort was made to
convert project objectives and subproj ects into indicators for measuring project performance,
such as the contraceptive prevalence rate. Baseline studies now available by NISER and
NPC 2 would have provided the necessary background on which the project would have
been designed with more feasible and sharply focused objectives and realistic targets.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
42.   The Bank's overall performance is rated deficient in the preparation, appraisal, and
supervision of the NPP; in fact, costs from preparation to completion total approximately
US$1.2 million, or roughly 13.75 percent of the amount disbursed. Identification of the
project, which is rated satisfactory, was primarily an outcome of the Bank's involvement
with assisting in the development of a National Population Policy. The NPP thus responded
to a clear need to support population activities.



10
43.   Higher than average risks had been correctly identified during preparation; however,
various measures to mitigate against the first two risks mentioned above were unrealistic
(para. 15).  During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank failed to assess the
implications of launching a multi-sectoral program to be managed by two new organizationar
agencies. The problems encountered during implementation can be traced back to these
structural design flaws. These flaws should have been identified and addressed during
project implementation, had the project been adequately supervised. This was not the case,
as supervision missions were irregular (table  llB provides examples of 12-, 15-, and 18-
month periods between missions) and only four of the 13 missions had a full range of
relevant technical competencies. As a result, the design flaws were not addressed until four
years into project implementation, by which time differing role perceptions and turf conflicts
had become entrenched. While the consistent support provided from the field may explain
the optimistic development objective ratings the project received until July 1997, there was
an additional problem created by the frequent turnover of Bank task managers and sector unit
leaders. The results were considerable delays in obtaining approvals and non-objection
letters, and a lack of continuity. Not surpris.ingly, it created a disruptive atmosphere in an
already difficult project.
44.   The Borrower's performance during project implementation was not satisfactory. Of
the seven government entities involved in Phase 1, only a few have, to a limited extent, been
able to implement parts of the work programs they developed. Additionally, project
implementation responsibilities were not handled professionally. Rather than place the
project's interests first, individual and organizational interests took precedence often
resulting in conflicts and disagreements among those tasked with implementing the project.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
A.   IMPORTANT FINDINGS IOF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
45.   The NPP was implemented during a period when Nigeria was undergoing many
difficult challenges, political as well as economic. This situation worsened as donors
completely withdrew their assistance during the last four years of the project, leaving a
number of key population activities underfunded.
46.   Although the project reflected Nigeria's Population Policy agenda, the objectives
were far too ambitious to be implemented successfully. Overall the project is rated as
unsatisfactory. The utilization of Part A of the Credit was substantially less than planned, at
13.57 percent, with an accumulated disbursement lag of over 84 percent.
47.   An important finding of the project's implementation experience was the impractical
institutional arrangement. In hindsight, the establishment of a PAFA was not the most
appropriate institutional scheme for Nigeria.



11
B.   FUTURE OPERATION
48.   The fundamental objectives of the project are still valid given recent demographic
trends. The contraceptive prevalence rate which is still very low, increased nominally fronm
6.9 percent in 1987 to an estimated 7.3 percent in 1990. This increase is attributable to
efforts made by donors such as the PPFN, USAID, and UJNFPA. More effort is required in
this area as growing evidence points to new attitudes and a growing desire to limit family
size. Recent studies carried out by the African Population Advisory Committee identified a
gap between attitudes and behavior. In Nigeria, almost 10 percent of married women
indicate they do not want more children, but are not using any contraceptive measures. An
additional 11 percent express an interest in, but are not practicing, birth spacing. A short-
term objective would be to study the results obtained through the project's research in order
to consolidate some of its achievements and gain more insight into reproductive behavior.
49.   Any future support to population activities that the World Bank might consider will
also need to take into account the implementation lessons of this project. The baseline
studies by NPC and NISER, which are community-based, provide invaluable data on
potential areas to be targeted for future interventions. However, an assessment of these
studies must be made to determine how they can be used most effectively (table 6).
C.   LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR IN NIGERIA
50.   The project implementation experience lends itself to further lessons which are
important challenges for the preparation and implementation of future projects. These
lessons are similar to those found in other population projects in Sub-Saharan African
countries and include:
*  Changing trends in population management, policy, and practice. It is important in
reviewing the lessons learned from this project to note the change in the Bank's thinking
on population and FP activities. The Bank's contribution to FP activities focused
primarily on IEC, FP, and demographic variables. Indicators and other measurements
were not a requirement in population project SARs in the late 1980s. The NPP SAR did
not include indicators. Thinking on population changed in the international community
and in the Bank following the adoption of the Program of Action at the International
Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo in 1994. This program of
action endorses a broad package of activities for reproductive health which includes safe
motherhood and management of STDs and HIV/AIDS. The program also emphasizes
reproductive health from the standpoint of the individual, couple, and family rather than
a purely demographic approach to population activities. The Cairo reproductive health
approach might be more suitable and effective for implementation in a country such as
Nigeria.
* Public support and political commitment to population issues: Due to the sensitive and
multi-sectoral nature of population issues, more attention should be paid to building
political commitment among the various actors in order to ensure strong, continuous
leadership; both are essential for legitimizing and enhancing the acceptability of FP
activities. Acceptance of the NPP was largely dependant on the charisma of the



12
incumbent Minister for Health who initiated, and had a clear vision for, the project.
Problems arising from the lack of sustained political support became evident after the
Minister's departure. The project also needed to be firmly rooted in the institutions;
support by a charismatic leader was insufficient to ensure execution.
Greater community involvement in FPprograms. Future projects should aim at focusing
on the state and local government levels with simple, concrete components. Given the
mistrust of government found in communities, more opportunities for dialogue should be
created to involve communities and their leaders, in order to better understand
government policies and programs. Failure to adequately address the client's needs and
concerns following the Cairo Conference reproductive health approach can result in lost
time and opportunities.
* Project design. Given the complexity of the project design and the weak institutional
capacity, the project should have made provisions for an earlier review, or possibly a
shorter duration. This would have pennitted either redesign or exit. Future projects
should have fewer components, and one or two clearly stated objectives. Measurable
indicators should be part of the project design and an operational monitoring and
evaluation program should be agreed with the Borrower. Equally important in any
program that involves more than one sector, is a clear development and delineation of
roles and responsibilities agreed upon with each of the sectoral agencies; finally, political
and institutional consensus is required. These need to be documented in the DCA, as
well as in the SAR, to avert possible overlap and conflict situations.
* Inclusion of a contraceptive/commodities component in any future population project.
While it was introduced at the time of the MTR i.n 1997, the initial omission of a
contraceptive/commodities component in the NPP was an important oversight. This
assumed greater significance with the withdrawal of USAID, who had been the major
provider of contraceptives for Nigeria. While the Bank does not have a comparative
advantage in procuring contraceptives/commodities, funding arrangements could be
made for another agency with the expertise, such as UNFPA, to procure
contraceptives/commodities on the Borrower's behalf The private sector, including both
for- and non-profit providers, has considerable potential for contributing to contraceptive
use at a time when public sector resources are shrinking and need is growing; however,
its role has not been fully utilized. In a country with such a large population, the public
sector alone, even with the best intentions, could never respond to the country-wide need
for contraceptives.
- The Bank's supervisory role. Future projects in the sector would benefit from the Bank
assuming a more active role in project supervision, making clear, relevant, and timely
decisions, and presenting a more realistic view of project implementation. The overly
optimistic ratings on development objectives did not portray the reality of the situation.
Nearly two years was lost due to the Bank's request for additional audits and because of
the suspension of the SA. Additionally, the turnover of Bank staff lead to weaknesses in
supervisory ancd managerial oversight. Finally,-care must be taken in future projects with
conditionalities requiring changes in institutions through legislative action rather than
changes taking place in existing institutions as a consequence of project implementation.



13
Evolving donor partnership and collaboration. With several donors now working on
population activities in Nigeria, and the expected entrance of more, it will become
necessary to work increasingly collaboratively with external partners in future progams.



14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substatial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                              l [1            0
Sector Policies                    O               Ol
Financial Objectives               O               Ol              E3 
Institutional Developmient         O               ba               O                O
Physical Objectives                El              Ol               I                 Fl
Poverty Reduction                  E               El              EI                 O
Gender Issues                      E               E               EI                El
Other Social Objectives            E               E                E                RI
Environmental Objectives           E                l               El               RI
Public Sector ManagemLent          E               E               el                E
Private Sector Development         E               El              EI                E
(including non-govemmental
sector)
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                    E                        RI                        E
Preparation Assistance            El                       E 
Appraisal                         El                       El                       0
Supervision                        l                       El[
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                       E                        RI
Implementation                    E                        E                        RI
Covenant Compliance               E                        El                       el
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El             El               El               Ea



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDrrS
Year of
Credit                               Objectives                      approval      Status
Preceding Operations
Ln. 2503. Sokoto Health Proj.  To  assist the  State  Government       1986        Closed
implement a Primary Health Care
Program.
Ln. 3125. National Essential   To support the Federal Government's     1989        Closed
Drugs                          plans under its national essential drug
policy.
Ln. 3034. Imo Health & Pop. Proj. To support the Govermuent implement  1989        Closed
its Primary Health Care Policy.
Ln. 3326. Health System Fund   To provide support to 16 states to      1991        Ongoing
develop State Health Systems &
Services
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project cycle                   Date planned            Actual Date/
latest estimate
Identification                               09/87                   09/87
Preparation                                  06/88                   06/88
Appraisal                                    07/89                   09/89
Negotiations                                 04/90                   12/90
Board Presentation                           05/91                   05/91
Signature                                    06/91                   06/91
Effectiveness                                09/91                   02/92
Project completion                           06/98                   6/98
Credit closing                               12/98                   12/98



16
TABLE 4A: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUM:iLATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL AMOUNrS
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimate      Actual Amount    Actual Amount as
(Cumulative)         (Cuniulative)       % of the Total
Disbursement
1992                    3.5                   2.5                 24%
1993                   10.6                    2.5                24%
1994                   19.3                    5.3                 50%
1995                   35.1                    6.7                64%
1996                   49.1                    7.9                75%
1997                   60.8                    9.2                88%
1998                   73.4                   10.4                99%
1999                   78.5                   10.5                100%
Date of final disbursement: June 21, 1999
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Loan database (June 21, 1999) for the actual amounts.
Note: (a) The total credit amount in US Dollars is based on the exchange rate US$/SDR when the credit was
negotiated; (b) The disbursed amount was SDR 7.5M (US$10.5); (c) At the time of closing, an amount equivalent
to SDR 44.8M (US$60.3M) was cancelled. (d) There was an undisbursed balance of SDR 1.9M (US$ 2.6M); (e)
There were no disbursements in FY93.
13.3% of the US dollar amoumt was disbursed.



17
TABLE 4B: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT PRIOR TO CANCELLATION
(SDR Million)
Category/Description                      Credit    Disbursed Amount
Amount
1. GOODS, WORKS & SVCS. UNDER PHASE 1 SUB-PROJ               16.91            3.09
2. GOODS, WORKS & SVCS. UNDER PHASE 2 SUB-PROJ
A. Federal Govt & Federal Parastatals                      8.42             0.83
B. State Goverunent                                        6.35             0.0
C. LGAs                                                    4.90             0.0
D. NGOs                                                    0.69             0.0
3. PAFA                                                        _              _
A. -Equip.Vehicles, Furniture, Supplies, Materials         0.35            0.43
B. Consultants Serv., training & Study Tours               0.35            0.50
C. Travel, Incre. Salaries & other Incre. Op. Costs.       1.18            1.14
4. DPA
A. -Equip, Vehicles, Furniture, Supplies & Materials.      1.59            0.03
B. Consultants Serv. Trg, Study Tours & Prep. Grants to CAs  0.62          0.28
5 PRF
A. Research Sub-Contracts, workshops & Administration      2.69            2.69
B. Computers, Other Equipment & Vehicles.                  0.07            0.07
6. UNALLOCATED                                                10.08           0.0
TOTAL                                54.20           9.06
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs.



18
TABLE 5: KEY ACTIVITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
At the time this project was approved by the Bank's Board, no project performance indicators were
specified in either the SAR or DCA. Physical and financial progress was monitored throughout the
project without reference to any benchmarks other than the sub-projects listed for Phase I in the SAR
and the original financing and disbursement plans. However, Key Activities for Project Implementation
and Operation are listed below.
COMPONENT                                  ACTUAL/REMARKS
L. ESTABLISHMENT OF INSTITUTIONS
A.       PAF and PAFA The institutional mechanism for
fumding population activities:
Originally programmed activities
a)   Appointment of manager and senior staff          1993
b)   Establish 4 units
c)  Institute legal backing as parastatal             Established in 1994
d)   Disburse funds 1to implementation agencies for   1993
I__ 1 approved population activities
e)   Mobilize resources for population programmes     .
f)   Draw up agreements between PAFA and the CAs      Achieved
g)   Preparation of annual financial reports to IDA   Achieved
h)   Organize overall coordination with IDA missions  Done
B.       DPA Provision of technical expertise for population.
Originally programmed activities:
a)   Appointment of 6 professional staff              Partially achieved
b)   Management of PAF related activities in the
preparation, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects
c)   Ensure that each CA provides annual progress and  PAFA
financial reports and a yearly work programme
d)   Organize a Proj ect Launch workshop              PAFA
C.       PRF: Research Institute for population
a)   Appointment of manager, three professional staff and    Complied with after delays
support staff
b)   Preparation of operational procedures and work plan    ..
c)   Establishment of PRF Technical Committee         Achieved
d)   Funding of population research proposals         Achieved
e)   Preparation of Annual reports                    Done



19
TABLE 5: KEY ACTIVITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONTD)
COMPONENT                                 ACTUAL/REMARKS
2. INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT OF THE NPP
A.      Originally programmed activities requiring joint
collaboration between the PAFA and DPA.
a)  Supervision of implementation of subprojects 
b)  Sub-project promotion, preparation, screening and  286 proposals received, 36 sub-
preliminary assessment under the leadership of DPA with   project proposals approved but did
collaboration of PAFA finance specialists for phase II  not progress beyond this stage due
to emphasis placed on the account.
c)  Develop indicators to monitor utilization and management  Partially achieved
of PAF
-   d)  Prepare for IDA annual progress and financial reports  Lead taken by PAFA
e)  Prepare joint work programs by September 30, each year   Lead taken by PAFA
f)  Procure jointly requirements for both PAFA and DPA  PAFA
g)  Organize Annual Consultative Meetings
h)  Organize a Mid-tenm review - June 30, 1994. Maintain  Held on June 30, 1997
liaison with local and intentional donors in collaboration
with DPA to coordinate the support. Establish functional
unit in each of the collaborating agencies.
PROMOTION OF F/P THROUGH HEALTH
EDUCATION (HEB/PHC)
A.      Promotion of IEC
Originally programmed activities:
a)  Strengthening the federal health education branch through   Partially accomplished
the provision of printing, photographic and audio visual
equipment.
b)  Establishing health education capacity in 4 zonal PHC  4 were identified but not established
offices through provision of equipment
c)  Establishment of training centers in a northem university   Partial establishment in Northem
and the University of Ibadan                       unit
d)  Conduct and disseminate results of baseline studies, KAP   Conducted not disseminated
surveys
f)  Production of various IEC materials including health  Partially accomplished
education newsletter, messages for traditional folk media in
22 LGAs
B.      Training
a)  Pre-service training for HEB staff and zonal center staff    -
b)  Study tours for HEB staff
c)  Workshops on IEC strategy development             _
d)  Workshops for state health education staff on use of new    -
materials



20
TABLE 5: KEY ACTIVITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONT)
COMPONENT                                  ACTUAL/REMARKS
B       Training
a)  Pre-service training for HEB staff and zonal center staff  2 staff trained, 1 is achieved
b)  Study tours for HEB staff                         22 Health/education materials
developed
c)  Workshops on 1EC strategy development
d)  Workshops for state health education staff on use of new  -
materials
e)  TOT for state ancl LGA health officers on FP in IEC  90 officials trained.
f)  Workshop for tutors in schools of health technology
g)  Workshop for state and national media personnel   -
h)  Workshop for physicians, teachers and social workers
i)  Workshop selected primary and secondary school
teachers on instructional materials
j)  Workshop selected primary and secondary school
teachers on instnrctional materials.
PROMOTION OF POPULATION/FAMILY LIFE
THROUGH PRIMARY EDUCATION (NERDC)
A.      Promotion of population education in schools
Originally programmed activities:
- X a)  Strengthening of LGA implementation through
(i) Conducting 2 meetings per year of CEOs in pilot
LGAs
(ii) Holding one meeting a year of CEOs and      Not done
headmasters in pilot LGAs
(iii) Conducting 2 visits annually to all schools offering   Not done
pop/education
b)  Curriculum development, production and distribution:    Not done
(i) Pop/FLE curriculum for primary schools in 4 subjects Developed. Not distributed
(ii) Printing and distribution of 16,000 copies of  Not printed and distributed
Pop/FLE curriculum for primary schools
c)  Development, prDduction and distribution of       Developed but not distributed
Instructional materials:
(i) Teachers guide, self-leaming modules, teaching charts Teacher guides developed but not
and pupils text/work book for primary schools     distributed
(ii) Printing of 16,000 copies of teachers guides, 30,000   Not done
copies of self-leaming modules 13,000, teaching charts;
and 400,000 pupils text books



21
TABLE 5: KEY ACTIVITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEM:ENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONT)
COMPONENT                                 ACTUAL/REMARKS
B.      Training
-   a)  Higher degree of 3 senior officers                Not done
b)  Refresher training in implementation, management and   Not done
evaluation for 22 state desk officers
C.      Civil Works
a)  Construction for National Population Education Building Not done
at Abuja
NATIONAL POPULATION COMMISSION (NPC)
A.      To support data collection, analysis and dissemination on
4 sentinel survey
Originally programmed activities:                Done
a)  Identification of enumeration areas              Done
b)  Finalization and printing of manuals, questionnaires and  Done
survey forms and documents
c)  Field work for baseline survey                   Done
d)  Editing, coding and data entry                   Done
e)  Data analyses and dissemination                  Done
Training
a)  Recruitment and training of technical assistants
|___| b)  Project officers and interviewers/recorders trained
6. PUBLIC ENLIGHTENMENT ON POPULATION (PIBC)
A.      Promotion of Awareness of Population Issues
Originally programmed activities:
a)  Establishment of a population information and    Accomplished
communication branch at the ministry of information
b)  Establishment of two documentation centers       1. Established
c)  Development, production and transmission of TV and    Not achieved but establishment of a
Radio drama series                               population desk at the Nigerian
_ __________________________________ .Television Authority and Radio Corp.



22
TABLE 5: KEY AcTIVITIEs FOR PROJECT IMLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONT)
C'OMPONENT                                ACTUAL/REMARKS
B.      Training
a)  Study tours                                      Achieved
b)  Specialized one year training in population and
development support communication
c)  One year diploma in population communication
d)  One month course in population communication for
middle level information officers
e)  Three day seminars and workshops for government
officials, private sector, religious leaders and policy
makers
C.      Research and Development
a)  To conduct KAP studies at the beginning and at the end   KAP conducted in 16 LGAs
- | b)  To develop instnictional materials in population IEC
c)  To provide the opportunity for the development of
campaign messages
d)  To develop pre-test and disseminate IEC materials to
target audiences disseminate, current data on population
and FP
INTEGRATION OF POPULATION INTO PLANNING
& BUDGETING (NPC 2)
A.      Support the improvement of sectoral planning at the
Federal and State levels.
Originally programmed activities:
a)  Provision of office equipment to 6 Federal Ministries and Partially achieved
24 State ministries.
Training:
a)  For all cadres in population and social development  Not done
(certificate courses). 64 LGA officers and 1-3 at federal
level and 1-3 at state level.
b)  Conduct workshops                                Done



23
TABLE 5: KEY ACTiITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONT)
COMPONENT                                  ACTUAL/REMARKS
2       INTEGRATION OF FP INTO MATERNAL AND
CHILD HEALTH
A.      Increase practice of FP in the context of MCH     Process started but did not go.
The originally programmed objectives:
a)  Strengthen management and technical capabilities of  Limited implementation prior to
FDH and 4 zonal PHC offices                      project closure.
b)  Strengthen management of MCH/FP at state and LGA    -
levels.
c)  Establish MCH/FP in-service education capacity health   Not done
department
d)  Establish community based pilot activities        Not done
I   =  Technical Assistance and Training
a)  Masters in Public Health/Health Sciences          1 officer
b)  6 weeks in FP Population programme management     Not done
c)  Study tours in Africa for two weeks; 4/year over 3 years  Zimbabwe, Thailand, Brazil
d)  Specialized staff training
e)  Training of various cadres of service providers   Updated training provided
f)  Development and printing of Standards of Practice for   Developed training manual for VHW
FP providers                                     and TBAs, but not distributed
g)  Conduct meeting between state FP/LGA FP service
providers
2.      Civil works
a)  Refurbish PHC outlets - 60
9. STRENGTHENING TERTIARY CENTERS FOR
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
A.      Ensuring a wide range of methods, services and
providing access:
1.      Technical capacity building
a)  Recruitment of OB/Gyn
b)  Recruitment of full time nurses
c)  Hiring of social workers
d)  Recruitment of computer operator
=__ e)  Hiring of computer statisticians



24
TABLE 5: KEY ACTIVITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
(CONT)
COMPONENT                                  ACTUAL/REMARKS
2.      Technical Assistance and Training
a)  Training for doctors and nurses in MCH/FP         68 doctors, 38 nurses received training
management, Logistics Management Information      in reproductive health
Systems/Surgical Contraceptives techniques and in AIDs
STD
b)  Overseas fellowships in infertility management and  1 trained in reproductive health, U.K.
advanced contraceptive technology
c)  In-service training in basic laboratory techniquaes,  7 lab technicians on management of
maintenance of medical equipment, instruments for  STDs
technical personnel
d)  Conduct and disseminate feasibility research on   Not done
expansion/establishment of secondary and tertiary
reproductive centers.
e)  Development and dissemination of teaching materials    Not done
f)  Conducted 3 joint zonal workshops with the MCH/FP    -
3.      Civil Works                                       __.
a)  Renovation/rehabilitation of reproductive centers in 4    Not done
tertiary institutions
b)  Renovation/upgrading of reproductive health centers in   Not done
___  ___ 22 state hospitals



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study                        appraisal/redefined                 Status                   Impact of study
Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior
1.       Family Planning STD HIV/AIDS      Population and Youth                     Completed       The study has had no impact as it has just been
knowledge and behavior of                                                                  completed, but identifies specific interventions
adolescents in Edo State.                                                                 for possible future funding.
2.       Adolescent knowledge and attitudes   Population and Youth.                 Completed        The study has had no impact as it has just been
towards reproductive health in Osun                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
State.                                                                                    for possible future funding.
3.       STDs behavioral patterns and      Population and Youth.                    Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
adolescent sexuality in Nigeria.                                                           completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
4.       Urban residential pattems and     Population and Youth.                    Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
adolescent sexuality and fertility in                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
Nigeria.                                                                                   for possible future funding.
5.       Adolescent sexual behavior in     Population and Youth.                    Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been      W
Nigeria: A case study of Kwara State.                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
6.       Research on adolescent sexuality and  Population and Youth.                Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
socialization in Kano State.                                                               completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
Role of Men in Family Planning
7.       Perception of population activities  Population.                           Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
and contraception among males of                                                           completed, but identifies specific interventions
reproductive age groups in Kwara                                                           for possible future funding.
and Kogi States.
8.       Role of men in family planning in  Population                              Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Nigeria.                                                                                   completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
9.       Determinants of effective male    Population                               Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
involvement in family life,                                                                completed, but identifies specific interventions
reproductive health & family                                                              for possible future funding.
planning progratmmes in Nigeria..



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at          |
Study                         appraisal/redefined                Status                   Impact of study
Economic Incentives/Des-Incentives for the Reduction of Family Size
10.      Implications of large family sizes on   Population.                        Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
me quality of iife in the military ana                                                     compieted, but identifies specific intervensions
para-military barracks in Kaduna                                                           for possible future funding.
State.
I11.     Adjustment policies, gender       Population.                              Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has been
dynamics and family size reduction in                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
Nigeria.                                                                                   for possible future funding.
12.       Cultural and socio-economic      Population                               Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
determinants of family size in urban                                                       completed, but identifies specific interventions
and rural communities of Osun and                                                          for possible future funding.
Oyo States.
13.       Socio-cultural and economic       Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
environment as determinants of                                                             completed, but identifies specific interventions
family size in the rural and urban                                                         for possible future funding.
areas of Nigeria.
14.       Socio-economic and cultural factors   Population                          Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
affecting fertility behavior of women                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
in South-Eastem Nigeria:                                                                   for possible future funding.
implications for Population Policy.
15.       Socio-cultural and economic dis-  Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
incentives and incentives for                                                              completed, but identifies specific interventions
reduction in family size in selected                                                       for possible future funding.
Nigerian states.
16.       Socio-economic determinants of    Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
reduction in family size in South-                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
Eastem Nigeria.                                                                           for possible future funding.
17.       Socio-cultural obstacles to fertility    Population                       Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
reduction in northem Nigeria (rural                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
and urban areas)                                                                           for possible future funding.
18.      Impact of socio-economic           Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
environment and women                                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
empowerment on the implementation                                                         for possible future funding.
of the national population policy.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at
Study                         appraisal/redefined                Status                    Impact of study
Socio-Cultural and Economic Determinants of the Value of children
19.       Analysis of inter-generational child-   Population.                       Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
parent wealth flows as a detenninant                                                       completed, but identifies specific interventions
of reproductive behavior in Nigeria.                                                       for possible future funding.
20.       Inheritance practice and fertility  Population.                            Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
behavior in Ondo State: A                                                                  completed, but identifies specific interventions
dimensional study of inter-                                                               for possible future funding.
generational child-parent wealth flow.
21.       Analysis of the inter-generational  Population.                           Final draft      The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
child-parent wealth flows as a                                            report          published.
determinant of reproductive behavior                                      submitted.
inNigeria.
22.       Values and costs of children: their    Population                          Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
implications for fertility behavior in                                                     completed, but identifies specific interventions
selected states of Nigeria.                                                               for possible future funding.
23.       The changing costs and benefits of    Population.                          Final draft     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
children inAdamawa State and the                                          report          published.
perception of fertility levels among                                      submitted.
rural dwellers.
24.       Gender considerations for         Population.                              Final draft     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
intergenerational family wealth                                           report           published.
distribution and its impact on                                            submitted.
population growth in South-East
Nigeria.
25.       Inter-generational wealth flow and  Population.                            Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
fertility behavior: A study of the value                                                   completed, but identifies specific interventions
of children in Ogun State.                                                                for possible future funding.
26.       Socio-cultural and economic dis-  Population.                              Inception report  The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
incentives and incentives for the                                         submitted.       published.
reduction of family size: A case study
of the FCT, Kogi, Benue, Plateau and
Taraba States.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at
Study                        appraisal/redefined               Status                   Impact of study
Special Topics
27.     ] Importance of ancestry and descent  [ Population.                      i Completed.    ] The study has had no impact as it has just been
--olps on-e y decision-maving   I                                                       completed, but I d+  .       +.,+..
and preference for a large number of                                                    for possible future funding.
children of a particular sex.
28.       Social change on perception of  Population.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
population issues among women in                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
purdah: An exploratory study.                                                           for possible future funding.
29.       Survey of client preference of family  Population.                      Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
planning clhic opening hours and its                                                    completed, but identifies specific interventions
implications for comparative uptake                                                     for possible future funding.
by Nigerian women.
30.      Implications of popular perception of  Population                        Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
population programmes: A study of                                                       completed, but identifies specific interventions
the Middle-Belt region of Nigeria.                                                      for possible future funding.                       00
31.      Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of  Population.                         Draft report    The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
traditional healers on family planning,                                 submitted.      published.
on STDs, and AIDS.
32.      Factors influencing the use of   Population.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
traditional versus modem family                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
planning methods in Ondo State.                                                         for possible future funding.
33.       Socio-cultural and economic     Population.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
incentives and constraints for                                                          completed, but identifies specific interventions
reduction in family size among the                                                      for possible future funding.
farming population in Nigeria.
34.      Population dynamics and          Population.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
development nexus: A simulation                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
model for the awareness of                                                              for possible future funding.
population impacts on development
in Nigeria.
35.      The impact of knowledge, attitude  Population.                           Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
and practice of the Population Policy                                                   completed, but identifies specific interventions
on the quality of Life in Nigeria.                                                      for possible future funding.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
l  |     Purpose as defined at
Study                        appraisal/redefined                 Status                   Impact of study
Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior
36.       Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior  Youth.                                Final draft      The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
in Ogun State.                                                            submitted.       published.
37.       Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior  Youth.                                Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
in Selected States of Northem                                                              completed, but identifies specific interventions
Nigeria.                                                                                  for possible future funding.
38.       Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior:  Youth                                Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
A case study of Anambra, Benue, and                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
Cross River State of Nigeria.                                                              for possible future funding.
39.       Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior  Youth                                 Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
in Ondo and Kogi States of Nigeria.                                       submitted.      published.
40.       Adolescents' Reproductive Behavior:  Youth.                                Final report    The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
A case study of Imo, Abia and Akwa-                                       submitted.       published.
Ibom States.
41.       Investigation into Adolescents'   Youth.                                   Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Reproductive Behavior in Niger and                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
FCT, Nigeria.                                                                             for possible future funding.
42.       Adolescent Sexuality and Fertility: A   Youth.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
case of Adamawa and Taraba States.                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
43.       Adolescent's Reproductive Behavior:  Youth.                                Draft report    The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
A case study of Plateau and Bauchi                                        submitted.       published.
States.
44.       Adolescent Sexuality and Fertility in   Youth.                             Draft report    The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
some Rural and Urban Communities                                          submitted.       published.
in Nigeria: A case study of Bomo,
Jigawa and Yobe States.
45.       Reproductive Behavior of          Youth.                                   Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Adolescents in Delta and Rivers                                                            completed, but identifies specific interventions
States.                                                                                   for possible future funding.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at
Study                        appraisal/redefined                 Status                   Impact of study
Role of Men in Family Planning
46.       I--e Role of Men in Family Plamning  Population.                           Draft report    The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
in Oyo and Niger States.                                                  submitted.      published.
47.       Role of Men in Famnily Planning in    Population.                          Draft report    TIhe study has had no imapet as it has yet to be
Nigeria: A Case Study of Adamawa                                          submitted.       published.
and Taraba States.
48.       Role of men in family planning im  Population.                             Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
completed Ondo State.                                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
I_for possible future funding.
Economic Incentives/Disincentives for the Reduction of Family Size
49.     | Economic Incentives-Disincentives    Population.                          Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
for the Reduction of Family Size in                                       submitted.     j published.
Taraba, Adamawa and Benue States                                                                                                               w
of Nigeria.                                                                                                                                    o
50.       Economic hncentives and           Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Disincentives for the Reduction of                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
Family Size in Bauchi, Bomo and                                                            for possible future funding.
Yobe States of Nigeria.
51.       Economic Incentives-Disincentives    Population.                          Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
for the Reduction of Family Size in                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
Ondo and Ogun States of Nigeria.                                                          for possible future funding.
52.       Economic Incentives-Disincentives    Population                           Completed..      The study has had no impact as it has just been
for Reduction of Family Size.                                                              completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
53.       Economic Incentives-Disincentives    Population.                          Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
for the Reduction of Family Size in                                                        completed, but identifies specific interventions
Kebbi State.                                                                              for possible future funding.
54.       Economic Incentives-Disincentives    Population.                          Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
for the Reduction of Family Size in                                       submitted.      published.
Kogi and Niger States of Nigeria.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at
Study                         appraisal/redefined                Status                    Impact of study
Socio-Cultural and Economic Determinants of Value of Children
55.       Socio-Cultural and Economic       Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Deterninants of Value of Children.                                                         completed, but identifies specific interventions
for possible future funding.
56.       Socio-Cultural and Economic       Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been.
Determinants of Value of Children in                                                       completed, but identifies specific interventions
Katsina, Kano and Jigawa States of                                                         for possible future funding.
Nigeria.
57.       A Study of Socio-Cultural and     Population.                             Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Economic Determinants of Value of                                                          completed, but identifies specific interventions
Children in Edo, Delta and Rivers                                                          for possible future funding.
States of Nigeria.                                                                                                                             W
58.       Changing Cost and Value of Children  Population.                           Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
in Nigeria. A Study of Parents                                                             completed, but identifies specific interventions
Perceptions and Fertility Response.                                                        for possible future funding.
59.       Socio-Cultural and Economic       Population.                              Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Determinants of Value of Children in                                                       completed, but identifies specific interventions
Kwara State of Nigeria.                                                                   for possible future funding.
60.       The Socio-Cultural and Economic   Population.                              Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Determinants of the Value of                                                               completed, but identifies specific interventions
Children in Yobe and Bomo States of                                                        for possible future funding.
Nigeria.
61.       The Socio-Cultural and Economic   Population.                              Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Determinants of the Value of                                                               completed, but identifies specific interventions
Children in Yobe and Bomo States of                                                        for possible future funding.
Nigeria.
62.       Socio-Cultural and Economic       Population.                              Completed.      The study has had no impact as it has just been
Determinants of the Value of children                                                      completed., but identifies specific interventions
in Kebbi, Niger and Sokoto States.                                             .           for possible future ftnding.



TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT (CONT)
Purpose as defined at          T
Study                        appraisal/redefined                 Status                   Impact of study
Popular Perception of Population Programmes
63.       Perception of and Barriers to the  Population.                            Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Implementation/Realization of                                                              completed, but identifies specific interventions
Population Policy in Riverine                                                              for possible future funding.
Communities of Ondo State.
64.       Achieving the Goals of the National   Population.                         Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Population Policy through                                                                  completed, but identifies specific interventions
Programnme Perception Analysis.                                                           for possible future funding.
65.       Perception Studies on Population  Population.                             Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
Policy Programnmes in Nigeria.                                            submitted.       published.
Focusing on Students in Tertiary
Institutions in Enugu and Benue
S'tates.
66.       Popular Perception of Population  Population.                             Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
Programmes: Socio-cultural and                                            submitted.      published.
Economic Implications. A Case
Study of Anambra and Abia States of
Nigeria.
67.       Perception of theNational Population  Population.                         Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Programnmes: A case study of Edo                                                           completed, but identifies specific interventions
and Delta States of Nigeria.                                                               for possible future funding.
Couples' Reproduction Decision-Making
68.       Couple's Reproductive Decision-  Population.                              Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
Making and Contraceptive practice in                                      submitted.      published.
Nigeria.
69.       Couple's Reproductive Decision-  Population.                              Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
Making and Contraceptive Practice in                                      submitted.      published..
Bomo and Yobe States.
70.       Couple's Reproductive Decision-   Population.                             Draft report     The study has had no impact as it has yet to be
Making and Contraceptive Practice in                                      submitted.      published.
Kogi and Plateau States of Nigeria.
71.       Couple's Reproductive Decision-  Population.                              Completed.       The study has had no impact as it has just been
Making and Contraceptive Practice in                                                      completed, but identifies specific interventions
Nigeria.                                                                                   for possible future funding.



33
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
Category                      Appraisal estimate                 Actual costs
Local    Foreign                Local     Foreign
Costs    Currency    Total    Currency   Currency     Total
Phase I Subprojects from PAF          28.5       11.2       39.7       4.2        5.1        11.2
Phase II Subprojects fromPAF          27.3       10.7       38.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Development of PAFA to Manage PAF      2.4        1.5       3.9        4.0        1.3        4.3
StrengDthning of DPA to SupportPAF     5.4       2.6        8.0        0.6        1.3        1.0
Subcontracts from & Operation of PRF   3.8       0.2        4.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
TOTAL                    67.4      26.2       93.6        8.8        7.7       16.5
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs.
Note: Different exchange rates applied during the reported periods, leading to exchange losses.
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual Costs
Source             Local    Foreign                    Local    Foreign
Costs    Currency    Total    Currency   Currency          Total
IDA                           52.3       26.2        78.5       2.8         7.7         10.5
Government                    15.0        0.0        15.0       5.7         0.0         5.7
NGOs                           0.1        0.0         0.1        0.3        0.0         0.3
TOTAL                         67.4      26.2         93.6        8.8        7.7         16.5
Source:: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs
Note: (1) At the time of closing there was an undisbursed amount equivalent to SDR 1.9M (US$2.6M)
(2) The Federal Government contribution indicated above did not include the unspent cash balance
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation
purposes.



TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original   Revised
Covenant   FulfilL.| Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                        Description of Covenant                                 Comments
2.02 (b)   05         2/10/92               CD       (i) Open a Population Activities Fund Special Account (PAF) in dollars,  The PAF Special Account was opened
in a cormmercial or merchant bank on terrns and conditions satisfactory to  with an initial deposit by the World
IDA                                                             Bank of SDR 2.5 million in June
1993.
2.02 (b)   05         1992       1994       CD       (ii) Open a Populationi Research Fund Special Account (in dollars) in a    The PRF account was opened with the
commercial or merchant bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to  Nigerian International Bank (NIB) -
IDA.                                                            initial deposit by the World Bank of
SDR 2.5 million, & Citi Bank of SDR
500,000.
3.01 (c)   05         2/10/92    1994       CP       Establish aId maintain with form and funlctions satisfactory to IDA the    There were long delays in obtaining
Population Activities Fimd(PAF) and the Population Activities Fund  the legal instrument for the
Agency (PAFA).                                                  establishment of PAFA which was a
condition of effectiveness. This was
met tlhrough the gazetting of Decree
19 of 1994. Project coordination and
management of PAFA has created
institutional conflicts between PAFA
and the DPA due to
misunderstandings on their respective
roles.
3.03      02          Project    Project    CD       Make quarterly deposits of estimated counterpart requirements into the    Project account was opened with Citi
life      life                Project Accoutnt.                                               Bank with an initial deposit of 5 m
naira. Counterpart deposits have been
irregular and inconsistent.



Original   Revised
Covenant   FulfilL    Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                        Description of Covenant                                 Comments
4.01 (b)   02         Yearly -   Yearly -   CP       Furnish IDA with certified copy of audit report by independent auditors   Audit reports for 1992 and 1993 were
(ii)                  6/30       6/30                acceptable to IDA, including separate opinion on statements of  received as and when due. The 1994
expenditure.                                                    Audit highlighted the investment of
funds in fmancial houses that
subsequently crashed. This resulted in
the conduction of two Special Audits
to determiine if the funds had been
taken from the Special Account and
eventually led to the suspension of
disbursements to the Special Account
in September 1995 which was lifted
20 months later in May 1997.
4.01     05          Project    Project    CP       Maintain records (receipts etc.) related to statements of expenditure for at Audit reports for 1993 indicated the
(ii)                  life       life               least one year after submission of relevant audit report to IDA.  need to establish fnance accounting
mechanism in order to enhance
financial accountability. Since then,
financial records have been properly
maintained.
U,
Sch.4,    05          Project    Project    CP       Organize annual consultative meetings among Department of Population  Few meetings were actually organized.
Para.                 life       life                Activities (DPA), PAFA, collaborating agencies, and IDA.
Sch.4,    05          6/30/94    6/30/97    CD       Carry out a mid-term review with IDA.                           The mid-term review meeting
Para.l                                                                                                               originally scheduled for June 1994
was held in June 1997. The Bank
proposed an institutional restructuring
of the project as an attempt to resolve
management problems which led to
implementation difficulties and
eventually led to a suspension then
cancellation of Part A.
Sch.4,    05          Project    Project    CD       Provision to IDA of PAFA's and DPA's joint work program for operation  Initial problems of developing work
Para.3                life       life                of PAF for the subsequent fiscal year.                          programs resulted in delays in
obtaining IDA's approval.



Original   Revised
Covenant   FulfilL    Fulfill.
Section     Type       Date       Date    Status                        Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Sch, 4,    10         1994                 NC        Agreement between PAFA/DPA and IDA on an updated list of activities  Not done.
Para. 4                                              from the most recent rolling three year plan on the basis of which
(a)                                                  subprojects may be prepared for consideration.
Sch. 4,    05         1994                 NC        From this date onward, PAFA and DPA must scrutinize each proposed    Not done.
Para. 7                                              subproject to ensure thatit can be completed before project closing.
Sch.4,    05          Project    Projec    CD        Provision to iDA by Nigerian institute of Social & Economic Research of Initial delays in starting PRF activities
Para.9 (a)            life       life               the work program for operation of the Population Research Fund (PRF)   due to a misunderstanding of roles and
during the subsequent year.                                     responsibilities between the PAFA and
PFR. The latter had initially insisted
on overseeing PRF activities.
However, once clarified, the PRF
work program was submitted to IDA
on time.
Covenant Type:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people                       Present Status:
2. = Financial Performance/ revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review and reporting       C  = Complied with
frombeneficiaries                        10. = Project implementation                  CD = Complied with Delays
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds     11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  CP =  Complied with partially
4. = Counteipart funding                            other resource allocation              NYD= Not yet due
5. = Management aspects of the project or      2.= Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/      NC = Not complied with
executing agency                               regulatory/institutional action         SOON = Compliance Expected in reasonably
6. = Environmental covenants                  13. = Other                                         short time.
7. = Involuntary resettlement



37
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Estimated                  Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks      US$ ('000)     Weeks    US$ ('000)
Preparation                   n.a.         n.a.       135.5        221.5
Appraisal                     n.a.         n.a.        73.1        144.7
Negotiations to Board         n.a.         n.a.        37.8         87.6
Presentation
Supervision                  125.2        177.6       295.9        513.3
Completion                   20.2          17.6          1.9         5.7
TOTAL                        145.4        195.2       544.2       972.8
n.a.: not available
Source: World Bank Cost Accounting System (FACT) June 17, 1999.



38
I'ABLE 1 1: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
State of Project   Mon.   Number    Specialized                             Perfornance Rating by Type
Cycle      /year       of       Staff Skills    -                              _
persons    Represented   IP    DO      CLC    PMP    CF         PP   TP    TAP    SP   DL %
Supervision 1     5/91     n.a.     Original      n.a.  n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a       n.a   n.a.   n.a.    n.a   0%
Supervision 2   09/91       2       SPS/FP        I      1       2       2        1       n.a   n.a.   n.a.    n.a   0%
Supervision 3   03/92      n.a.     FP            2      1       2       3        1       n.a   n.a    n.a.    n.a   26%
Supervision 4    9/93      n.a.     SPS           2      1       2       2       3        2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   78%
Supervision 5    12/93      3       PP/OO/SPS    2       1       2       2       3        2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   71%
Supervision 6     6/94      5       SPS/IEC/      2      2       2       2       3        2    na.    n.a.    n.a   73%
MS/PP/
MES
Supervision 7    5/95       3       OA/PS/HS      3      2       2       2       2        3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   80%
Supervision 8    7/95       7       FM/OAIPS/   3        2       2       3       2        3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   56%
PHS/PP/MS
/IEC
Supervision 9    4/96       3       PHS/AS/PP    3       2       2       2       3        3     n.a.   n.a.    n.a.  66%
Supervision 10   7/97      n.a.     n.a.          3      2       2       2       3        3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   84%
Supervision 11   7/97       4       IS(2)/PP/OA   3     3        2       3       3        3     n.a.   n.a.    n.a.  84%
Supervision 12   2/98      n.a.     n.a.          3      4       3       4       3        3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   85%
Supervision 13   5/98      n.a.     n.a.          3      4   _   3       3   _  n.a.    3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a   85%
TOTAL                       27                    30    25       26      30       27      27
Specializations: AS: Agriculture WIA Specialist; FM: Financial Management, FP: Family Planner; HS: Health Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist;
IS: Implementation Specialist; MES: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, MS: Management Specialist; OA  Operations Assistant; 00:
Operations Officer, PHS: Public Health, Specialist; PP: Population Policy; PS: Procurement Specialist; SPS: Snr. Population Specialist (TFL)
Types of problems for performance:
CF: Counterpart Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag-, IP: Summary Implementation Progress Rating; DO:
Project Development Objectives; PMP: Project Management Perfornance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical
Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.
Perfomiance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory, 4: Highly Unsatisfactory, n.a. = data not available



39
NIGERIA'S POPULATION POLICY - GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS
TARGET                                 BY 1995        BY 2000
1.   Reduce Proportion of women manrying before age 18              By 50%        By 80%
2.   Reduce pregnancies among mothers under 18 or over 35 years of age.
By 50%        By 90%
3.   Reduce proportion of women bearing more than 4 children        By 50%        By 80%
4.   Make family planning services available to women of child bearing age
To 50%        To 80%
5.   Direct a significant proportion of family life education and appropriate
family planning services to men                                              To all.
6.   Reduce total fertility rate from present level of between 6 and 7
To 4
7.   Reduce the population growth rate from its present level of 3.3%
To 2.5%       To 2.0%
8.   Reduce infant mortality                                        To 50/1000    To 30/1000
9.   Reduce the crude death rate                                    To 10/1000    To 8/1000
10.  Provide family life education and family planning infonnation and
services to adolescents                                                      To all
11.  Provide basic amenities to rural communities                   To 50%         To 75%



40
_,PENDIX A
DOCUMENT OF
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2238 - UNI)
APRIL, 1999
ABUJA, NIGERIA



41
ABBREVLITIONS /ACRONYMS
ARHEC      -      African Regional Health Education Centre
CA         -      Collaborating Agency
DCA        -      Development Credit Agreement
DCDPA      -      Department of Community Development and Population Activities
DHS        -      Department of Hospital Services
DPA        -      Department of Population Activities
FCT        -      Federal Capital Territory
FGN        -      Federal Governrnent of Nigeria
FLE        -      Family Life Education
FMF        -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMI        -      Federal Ministry of Information
FMOH       -      Federal Ministry of Health
FP         -      Family Planning
FRCN       -      Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria
HEB        -      Health Education Branch
HNP        -      Health, Nutrition and Population
[CB        -      International Competitive Bidding
ICPD       -      International Conference on Population and Development
ICR        -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA        -      International Development Association
LEC        -      Information. Education and Communication
IPPF       -      International Planned Parenchood Federation
KAP        -      Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LCB        -      Local Competitive Bidding
LGA        -      Local Government Area or Authoritv
LIO        -      Local Information Officer
MCH/FP    -       Maternal and Child Health/Familv Planning
MNC        -      Multi-National Corporation
MOU        -      Memorandum of Understanding
MTR        -      Mid-Term Review
NCE        -      National Council on Education
NCGPD      -      National Consultative Group on Population for Development
NERDC      -      Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council
NGO        -      Non-Governmental OrganisaLion
NISER      -      Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research
NPC I      -      National Population Commission
NPC 11     -      National Planning Commission
NPP        -      National Population Project
NTA        -      Nigerian Television Authority
OPS        -      Organized Private Sector
PAF        -      Population Activities Fund
PAFA       -      Population Activities Fund Agencv
PAFGC      -      Population Activities Fund Governing Council
PHC        -      Primary Health Care
P1CB       -      Population Information and Communication Branch
PRF        -      Population Research Fund
RI-H       -      Reproductive Health



42
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
TBA         -      Traditional Birth Attendant
TOT         -      Training of Trainers
UNFPA       -      United Nations Population Fund
VDW         -      Village Development Worker
VHW         -      Village Health Worker



43
Implementation Completion Report
Federal Republic of Nigeria
National Population Project
(Credit 2238-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Popuiation Project (NPP) of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria for which the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) obtained the
World Bank (the Bank) Credit 2238 - UNI in the amount of SDR 54.200.000 equivalent of US$78.5
million on June 17, 1991. The credit became effective in February 1992. several months after the
anticipated effective date due to a delay on the part of the FGN in fulfilling the conditions artached to
the agreement especially the establishment of project management framework.
The credit was closed on December 31. 1998 in line with the original closing date. The last
disbursement took place in September 1998 at which a balance of USS65.4 million was cancelled.
This ICR has been prepared by the Borrower based on materials collected from records at Population
Activities Fund Agency (PAFA). Department of Community Development and Population Activities
(DCDPA). the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER). and from collaborating
agencies (CAs). The CAs contributed sectoral reports and comments on the draft ICR.



44
Table of Contents
Pages
Preface
Evaluation Swunmaryv
Part I:                  Project Implementation Assessment
1. Introduction                                            I
a.  Macro-socio-economic setting                           I
b. Bank's role in the sector                               I
2. Project Objectives                                      2
a.  Project objectives and components                      2
b. Special credit covenants and agreements                 I
c. Evaluation of project objectives                        3
3. Implementation Experience and Results                   3
a. Assessment of project success and Sustainabiiitv:       3
b. Summarv of cost and financing arrangements              5
c. Implementation schedule                                 6
d. Analysis of kev factors affecting maior objectives:     6
e. Assessment of the Borrower's and the BaniKs:
Performance                                             7
f. Assessment of project's outcome
S
4. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and
Key Lessons Learned.                                    9
a. Important findings of project implementation            9
Experience
b. Future operations and sustainability                    9
c. Lessons for future projects in the sector              10
Part II:                  List of Statistical Tables                                11



45
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2238-U.VI)
EVALUATION SUEIMARY
INTRODUCTION
In the mid-1980s, the FGN realized that rapid population growth was having a constraining
impact on the social and economic development of Nigeria. At an annual growth rate-of 3.1
per cent then, the population of Nigeria was estimated to double in 22 years. Government
therefore formulated and adopted a comprehensive National Population Policy in 1988 and
launched a national population programme in 1989 to implement the policy. To plan and
coordinate the policy implementation, Government established the DCDPA in the Federal
Ministry of Health (FMOH). The challenge to implement activities aimed at reducing the
population growth rate led to obtaining the Bank credit of US$78.5 million equivalent to
implement the National Popuiation Project (NPP). Government, in line with the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), established the Population Activities Fund (PAF) and PAFA not
only to manage the credit but also to mobilise more resources for the implementation of the
NPP. The NPP was the fourth project of the World Bank in the health, nutrition and
population (HNP) sector in Nigeria. Unlike the others. however, it was the only project with
multi-sector and multi-ministerial involvement.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
a.    Project Objectives and Components: The overall objectives of the NPP were to
strengthen the institutional framework and expand the basis of experience for undertaking a
large scale, inter-sector, national population programme over the coming decades. The
detailed objectives. as they appear in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) number 8527-UNI
were to:
(i)   assist Nigerian institutions collectivelv and individually to devise constructive
approaches to the provision of population-related information and services;
(ii)  fund sub-projects designed and implemented by a number of government agencies.
universities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Each subproject had its own
objectives.
The project consisted of two parts. Part A covered population activities in all its ramifications
and was financed from the PAF while Part B covered special research and was funded from
the Population Research Fund (PRF). The subprojects financed under PAF were divided into
Phases I and 11
b. Credit Covenants and Agreements:  The Borrower complied with the credit covenants
and agreements except for delay in compliance. During the course of the implementation
of the project Schedule I of the DCA was amended to reflect the percentage of foreign
expenditure to be financed from the credit.
c. Evaluation of Project Objectives:    The objectives of the project were neither verv
specific nor measurable but were justified by the potential contribution of the `NPP to



46
fertility reduction, population growth reduction and improved health and welfare of the
people. Most of the detailed implementation objectives drawn up for each subproject were
also too broad and ambitious. It may be noted that although there were no indicators in
the SAR, process indicators were later developed for monitoring each of the subprojects.
3.    IMPLEOENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
a.    Assessment of Project's Success, Sustainabilitv and Future Operation:     The
project partially achieved its objectives. It increased knowledge and support for population
programme throughout the country. The institutional framework for the subprojects had been
established and capacity for undertaking large projects had been built up. The prospects for
the sustainability of the NPP is high. All the units set up under the project had been
institutionalized and integrated into their respective organizations. The Borrower recognizes
the strategic importance of the project and is currently providing some funds to sustain it.
b.    Suimmarv of Actual Costs; and Financing Arrangements and Implementation
Schedule: The total cost of the project was estimated at USS93.8 million out of which the
Borrower was to contribute US$15.3 million equivalent. Total disbursements of the credit by
March 31, 1999 were .......l eaving an undisbursed credit baiance of US5 .... At the time otf
writing this report. a few outstanding payments valued at about .was being treated.
The Borrower had contributed USS5.71million as counterpart find during the lifetime of the
project. Whereas the Borrower matched the payment of counterpart fund with the level of
disbursement, the level of disbursement from the Bank and the release of counterpart fund
were irregular. The schedule agreed to could not be met due to delays and disagreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
C.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives: The kev factors that affected
the achievements of the major objectives included: (i) unstable program environment arising
from unstable political, social'and economic environment: (ii) period of learning required in
implementing project of this scale; (iii) weak  technical support: (iv) inappropriate
managem,ent structure; (v) delayed and irregular release of fund by the Bank: (vi) embargo
placed on the Special Account as a result of investments lodged in ftinance houses: (vii) the
Bank's disregard for the PAF (Governing Council (PAFGC) -i.e. PAF management
committee - and its views: (viii) conflicting interpretations of the DCA: (ix) delays in the
review of' requests and in the issuance of 'no objection': and (x) inconsistent directives given
by the Task Manager to the project:.
d.    Assessment of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance: The Borrower's
performance in project preparation and covenant compliance was satisfactorv but deficient in
implementation. The Bank's perfornnance was satisfactory with regard to identification and
preparation assistance but deficient in appraisal and supervision.
e.    Assessment of Project Outcome:  The overall project outcome  was considered
unsatisfactory but promising.



47
4.  SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
a.    Findings of Implementation Experience: The following are the most important
findings of the project implementation experience:
(i) the project objectives were neither specific nor measurable: neither were indicators
prepared for the assessment of the performance of the project; (ii) emphasis was placed on
institutional capacity building at the expense of provision of services to the beneficiaries: (iii)
the project depended on donors for vital inputs such as provision of contraceptives; (iv) the
project required inter-sector participation for effectiveness:  (v) the design of the project
was deficient in placing project management responsibility on two bodies, a situation which
gave rise to conflicts; (vi) decision making on the project by the Bank was not, for the most
part, resident in the country, thus making communication on the project difficult; (vii) non-
adherence of the Bank to the key terms of the DCA constrained project impiementation: (viii)
disregard for the Nigerian law stalled project implementation: and (ix) ownership of the
project by the Borrower was made difficult by the actions of the Task Manager.
b.    Plans for Future Project Operations and Sustainabilitv:The project did not reach
operation stage and did not come to a natural conclusion as it was terminated after the much-
delayed Mid-Term Review.(MTR) However, the Borrower has continued to keep the project
alive, even though at a low level of activities. The project will be continued in future in
accordance with the law establishing it.
C.    Lessons Learned:_The key lessons learned from the project experience are:
(i) project objectives should be,specific. measurable and have identifiable indicators; (ii) the
focus of a project should be on the end, not intermediate, beneficiaries: (iii) an autonomous
project management framework is required for multi-ministerial and inter-sectoral
collaboration; (iv) heads of the organizations of CAs should be signatories to subproject
agreements and be familiar with subproject operational guidelines: tv) the project should be
integrated into each CA's rolling plan for long-term commitment:.(vi) the Bank should
streamline its supervision plans and procedures:.(vii) the Bank should expand its proiect
performance indicators to include factors other than draw-down.: lviii) the legal instrument
guiding project implementation should be respected by all parties:.(Ix) staff recruited and
trained for the project should be retained.



48
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2238-UNI)
PART 1:    PROJECT  2IPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.  INTRODUCTION
a.    Macro-socio-economic Setting
The NPP was an initiative of the FGN to obtain credit assistance of the Bank to finance the
implementation of the National Population Policy adopted in 1988. The Bank and other donors
agreed with Government that assisting N'igeria to reduce high fertilirv rate wouid reduce rapid
population growth rate from 3.1 per cent then to 2.0 per cent by the year 2000. Furthermore, lower
fertiliry rate would reduce maternal and child mortality rates, improve people's welfare, alleviate
poverty and accelerate social and economic development. Fertility reduction strategy provides the
most cost-effective method of alleviating the social, economic, health and destabilizing consequences
of rapid population growth in the shortest cossible time. Fertility reduction is likely to create a better
quality of life for the people.
It was observed that despite the poteritiai great benefits of lower fertilitv. promoting the concept
among the people of Nigeria constituted a great challenge in terms of leadership support. information
dissemination, service delivery as well as cost implications. Fertilitv regulation -was constrained by
strong cultural support for large family size. cultural diversity, religious belief, perceived advantages
of population size (for example, revenue allocation based partly on population *factor), weak
programme organization. coordination and accessibilitv. To address these problems. the FGN had
encouraged local government authorities (LGAs), NGOs and donors to expand familv planning (FP)
intormation and services to break down the barriers. Government had attempted to provide
leadership with the introduction of NPP.
b.    Bank's Role in the Sector
In designing the NPP, Government and the Bank were guided by the experience on previous similar
projects undertaken in the health sector. The Bank's interest in HNP sector in Nigeria began with the
Sokoto Health Project, Loan 2S03-UNI approved in 1985 and became effective in january 1986. The
Bank took a cue from the success recorded in the Agricultural Development Project and assisted the
FGN to focus on maternal and child health. a key determinant of fertilitv. As a balancing act, Imo
Health and Population Project. Loan 3034-UNI. approved and became effective in 1989 had been
undertaken explicitly with strong population component. The National Essential Drugs Project. Loan
3125-UNI, was approved also in 1989 bur became effective in 1991. It was to assist Government to
provide safe supplies of drugs to the public sector. Contraceptives were included in the list of
essential drugs to be made available to the public to strengthen and increase the credibilitv of the
health-care delivery system. Health System Fund, Loan 3326-UNI approved in 1991 and became
effective in 1992, had provided a line crecit for strengthening health care delivery svstem at state and



49
local government levels. Indirectlv, strengthening of the health-care system at these levels expands
access to. and improves the qualitv of, reproductive health and family planning services.
The Bank had also been collaborating with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) in the country on Agenda to Improve the
Implementation of Population Programme in Sub-Saharan Africa in the 1990s. In addition. the Bank
was working with agricultural, educational and infrastructural sectors where activities could be
harnessed to contribute to the attainment of population goals and objectives. Rationale for Bank
assistance in population had been predicated on assisting the FGN to implement its National
Population Policy which was designed to have major impact on socio-economic status, health and
well-being of the people of Nigeria who form almost one quarter of the population of the sub-
Saharan Africa. The task of reducing the rapid population growth. the high fertility and
consequential high maternal and child mortality rates is gigantic, requiring large resources that the
Bank and other donors were able to offer.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
a.    Project Objectives and Components
The overall objectives of the project were to strengthen the institutional framework and expand the
experiential basis for undertaking a large scale. inter-sectoral national population programme over
the coming decades in fulfillment of the National Population Policy goals. The more detailed
objectives as contained in the SAR were:
i.   to promote. in the long run, improvements in the economic well-being, health, and general
welfare of Nigerians through slow population growth and reduced fertilitv:
ii.   to assist Nigerian institutions collectively and individually to devise constructive approaches
to the provision of population-related information and services:
iii.  to fund sub-projects designed and implemented by a number of agencies at all levels of
government, by ministries and by NGOs. Each of these subprojects had its own objectives.
Many of the subprojects were to focus on increasing family planning practice. a few of them
were to mobilize the needed commitment of leadership to a strong national population
programme; others were to develop supportive. planning, coordinating, financing, monitoring
and evaluating strategies while yet others were to concentrate on research.
The project consisted of two parts. Part A, which covered population activities in all its
ramifications, was financed from the PAF while Part B covered special policy-oriented research and
was funded from the PRF. The subprojects financed under the PAF were divided into phases. Phase
I consisted of seven subprojects identified at negotiations and implemented by federal agencies and
phase 11 which would have been implemented by federal, state and local government agencies,
communities and NGOs.
b.    Special Credit Covenants and Agreements
Special credit covenants and agreements were included to promote the achievement of the project
objectives. The covenants and agreements were complied with although the compliance with some of
them was delaved due to legislative process needed to meet the conditions stated in the DCA. The
Borrower established both the PAFA as a parastatal of the FMOH and PAFGC to supervise PAF
operations. A legal instrument (Decree 19 of 1994) backed these institutions. The Bank concurred
with the appointment of a full-time manager for PAF.



50
The FMOH implemented the Part A while NISER implemented Part B. The key project staff
icentified in the DCA was appointed ana received the concurrence of the Bank. The Borrower
adopted an operational manual acceptable to IDA. The Bank approved the plan for the systematic
development of popuiation focal points at state level in 1993 but a new Task Manager withdrew the
'no objection' at the point of executing the plan. Work-plans, budgets (financial plans) and audited
accounts were submitted as and when due until 1997 when the NITR ended in a stalemate. The 1997
audit could not be undertaken because there was no reply from the Bank for a 'no objection' to
appoint external auditors.
Schedule I of the DCA, which described :he various percentages for disbursement from the credit.
had been interpreted differently at various t-imes by the Bank and had held up disbursement for about
eighteen months. As a result of this problem. the Borrower requested and obtained an amendment to
the Schedule.
c.    Evaluation of Project Objectives
T'he project objectives were reasonable but they constituted means and not ends. The objectives were
justifiable by their contributions to reduction in fertility and population growth rate. However, thev
were not specific, measurable and directly relevant to the targets set in the National Population
Policy on which the project articulation was based. Most of the detailed implementation objectives
drawn up for each subproject were also toc broad and ambitious. Lack of specificity of the objectives
created difficulty in identifying appropriate indicators for monitoring and evaluation. The Borrower
had to formulate relevant indicators to assess the performance of the sub-projects but these were
essentially process indicators.
3.  LMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND) RESLTTS
a.    Assessmlent of Project Success and Sustainabilitv
T'he project took off effectively in January1993 on a promising note. The management staff. the
recruitment of which was completed in March 1993, prepared various documents for the operation of
the project. Each of the documents was highly commended by the Bank. In some instances. the Bank
recommended the format of the documents to its other projects. The project improved on the
documents it inherited. For example, lump sums of money were to be given to two subprojects for
rehabilitation of various categories of hospitals. The project recommended, and the Bank approved
that needs assessments be conducted first to identify on what each dollar was to be spent.
Unfortunateiy, the selection of the consultants to carry out the needs assessment was delaved as the
request for 'no objection' took almost a vear before it received the attention of the Bank.
The Borrower had institutionalized population programmes in the relevant ministries and parastatals
implementing the project. The Population Information and Communication Branch (PICB) of the
Federal Ministry of Information (FMI) now has a line budget in the annual Federal budget. The
offices of most of the CAs. DCDPA  and PAFA  were rehabilitated and equipped. Vehicles.
computers, generators, ambulances, ty,pewriters, medical equipment, outside broadcasting vans were
procured and distributed.
Each of the CAs achieved a few of the original objectives. Study tours were undertaken and the
experience gained during the tour was utilized in project implementation. However. about one third



51
of the training planned for each of the subprojects was accomplished. A few members of staff of the
CAs received local and overseas training while various training was conducted for trainers. health
workers and information officers at state and LGA levels. In all, 68 doctors, 38 nurses, 136
members of state ministries of health and 720 LGA health workers were trained in the reproductive
health subprojects. In the IEC sub-projects, 110 health educators, 270 local information officers
(LIO) together with village development workers (VDW) and 200 artists, including performing
artists, were trained in the dissemination of RH and FP messages. In addition, 90 officers benefited
from the training of trainers (TOT) program. The HEB had developed a training manual for health
educators and PHC coordinators. Workshops were conducted for policy makers and staff of relevant
state ministries and organisations involved in project implementation by all the seven subprojects.
The modest achievement of the IEC subprojects included: the development and distribution of IEC
materials: the identification of four zonal health education offices; the partial establishment of Health
Education Department at Bayero University, Kano; the establishment of the Library and
Documentation Centre for population and family life education (PopiFLE); the establishment of
population desks at the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and the Federal Radio Corporation of
Nigeria (FRCN); and the conduct of baseline studies on knowledge , attitude and practice (KAP) in
16 LGAs. The curriculum for teaching Pop/FLE in primary schools and guides for teachers were
developed and approved by the National Council on Education (NCE). The IEC offices and
listening/viewing centres were identified in LGAs.
Sentinel surveys conducted were highly commended by the Bank, which decided to make it a model
for Africa. In the area of integration of population concerns into development planning, core staff of
8 sectoral ministries at the federal level and all the states of the Federation including the Federal
Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja had been trained and appropriate equipment supplied to them.
The reproductive health subprojects developed and field-tested a training manual for village health
workers/traditional birth attendants (VHW/TBA). Needs-assessments were completed for tihe
integrated maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) activities in 110 primary health care
facilities for which bills of quantities had been developed. Needs assessments were also completed
for 22 state hospitals and four teaching hospitals
Three sets of international competitive bidding (ICB) and four sets of local competitive bidding
(LCB) were successfully completed and the equipment distributed to the subprojects. the last to be
distributed were the generators, the procurement process of which had just been completed. PAFA
followed the Bank's standard procurement procedures and developed a strong procurement
department.
The project drew up a three-year operational programme for the systematic development of state
level population planning and coordination capabilities at grassroots for national population
programme development. The Bank commended the plan and gave it a 'no objection' during the
November 1994 mission. However, at the point of implementing the plan. the new Task Manager
withdrew the 'no objection' and suggested another strategy. By the time he was convinced of the
relative advantages of the first strategy, the Bank had suspended its funding of the project.
The Borrower actively promoted PAF among potential CAs, namely, federal and state government
institutions; LGAs, communities and NGOs. A special workshop was held in 1994 with the support
of the Bank to disseminate the national population programme to policy makers at federal. state and



52
local government levels and among NGOs. The promotional efforts paid particular attention to the
northern states and LGAs and resulted in receiving 286 proposals for funding under Phase II
subprojects. Of this number. thirty-six subproject proposals were identified and approved by the
Borrower after an elaborate exercise involving a tour of the country and several workshops with the
potential CAs. The subprojects under this phase were approved for funding in September 1995 but
could not be irnplemented because of the embargo placed on the account of the project by the Bank.
In an effort to harmonize work-plans. thereby reducing duplication of efforts and resources, the
project developed partnership with other multi-lateral organisations. In particular. the 1996 work-
plan was developed in conjunction with U NFPA. Though the Bank commended the effort, the work-
plan could not be executed due to the embargo placed on the account.
The Borrower developed other strategies to promote and monitor project performance. The PAFGC
met regularly to facilitate implementation and credit draw down. It proposed and the Bank agreed in
1997 to include procurement of contraceptives to bridge the gap arising from the withdrawal of other
donors from the supply of contraceptives to the public sector. It also supported the memorandum of
understanding (MOU) with UNFPA for the supply of contraceptives. The project had prepared the
framework for national contraceptive logistic management system, which was approved by Borrower
in August 199:5.
The sustainabilitv of the project is likely. The FGN recognized the strategic importance of the
project and consequently decided to support it after the termination of the credit. The Vision 2010
Committee attached great importance to population issues in the blueprint it prepared for the
development of the country. Government acceptance of the challenge of Vision 2010 is a measure ot
the political will for population programme in the country. The institutional framework under the
project, such as PICB. DCDPA, PAFGC and PAFA will continue to perform the project
Implementation functions for which they were established. Arrangements had been completed to
launch a Population Development Trust Fund, which would tap resources from the private sector and
other local donors. Preliminary discussions held by PAFA with various groups revealed that there
were many well-meaning individuals. the organized private sector (OPS) and multi-national
corporations (MNCs) in Nigeria who were willing, and should be encouraged. to make contributions
to finance population programmes as part of their social.obligations. The Agencv has also been
whipping up financial and political support for the project.
b.    Summary of Cost and Financing Arrangements
The overall estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$93.8 million equivalent. Out of this.
the International Development Association (IDA) would provide US$78.5 million while the FGN
would contribute US$15.3 million equivalent. The estimated cost, for the seven Phase I sub-projects
was US$39.7 million equivalent. The base date for these cost estimates was adjusted to December
1990. A further amount of US$38.0 million equivalent was considered sufficient to finance Phase II
sub-projects to be initiated over a period of about five years. The estimated cost for the development
of PAFA and DCDPA to support PAF was US$11.9 million equivalent. The estimated cost of duties
and taxes was US$2.3 million equivalent. In addition, it was proposed that USS4.0 million be set
aside to finance PRF.
The disbursement arrangement was however thrown out of order as a result of the embargo placed
on the account of the project, premature and irregular recovery of the Special Account contrary to
the provisions of the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, and delays in receiving Ino objection'. Total



53
disbursement of the credit to Part A by April 30. 1999 was US$ 9.66 million leaving an undisbursed
balance of US$ 64.84 million The reports of the various studies on project implementation including
beneficiary assessments and performance evaluation were presented at the inconclusive NtTR. The
Borrower contributed US$5.71million equivalent as counterpart fund during the lifetime of the
project. This counterpart fund contribution matched the level of disbursement from the Bank.
c.    Implementation Schedule
The DCA was signed on June 17, 1991 while the credit became effective on February 10, 1992.
Because of the delay in meeting the conditions of the agreement and other conditionalities for credit
disbursement, implementation of the project started in January 1993. An implementation period of
seven years (July 1. 1991 to December 31, 1998) with an additional six months required to complete
disbursement was estimated for the project. It was assumed that all Phase I sub-projects would be
started in year one of the project and that most of Phase II sub-projects would be initiated during the
subsequent five years. The arrangement for Phase II subprojects did not materialize due to the
embargo on the account. At the Portfolio Performance Review meeting in September 1996, it was
agreed that the embargo placed on the account should be lifted and activities that could be completed
within two years drawn up. The embargo was not lifted. The much-delayed MTR was held in July
1997. stalemate followed the MTR and was not resolved until the credit was cancelled.
d.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives
The factors that prevented the project from achieving its major objectives can be classified into four:
Factors under the control of the Borrower: The political transition and its associated social
unrest caused delays in processing the enabling legislation for the project. Frequent changes
of ministers and officials holdhng key positions as well as civil disturbances, labour strikes
and social unrest. affected project implementation. The economic recession and worldwide
sanctions imposed on the country increased the instability and lowered the morale of staff and
beneficiaries for project implementation. Generailv. the policy coordination and technicai
support to the project were weak
ii.   Factors subject to the control of the implementing agencies: The project was innovative and
required experienced staff. The inexperience of the first set of staff in the management of the
Bank-assisted project led to unauthorized investment, which caused unnecessary delay. The
CAs were handicapped by bureaucratic bottleneck in opening their accounts for the utilization
of the fund as well as by unstable social and economic situation in the country. Mlany CAs
complained of long delays in approval of subproject disbursement. which were traceable to
inconsistent and irregular funding. The dual responsibility for technical and financial
management and supervision of the subprojects increased the burden on the CAs. The
accounting system of the CAs was weak.
iii.   Factors related to the project design: The management structure designed for the project
gave room for contlict. Project management arrangement or responsibility shared by two
functionaries especially a department of a ministrv and a parastatal of Government did not
function well to suit effective project implementarion. While the parastatal was answerable to
the PAFGC, the department was not and that made project implementation and coordination
most difficult. Working with CAs from other ministries created a new experience which
required inter-sector collaboration.



54
il..   Factors under the control of the Bank. Conflict in interpretations of sections of the DCA.
particularly Schedule 1, by successive staff of the Bank was responsible for irregularrelease
of funds to the project. Schedule I relating to the percentage of expenditure to be financed
from the credit was a particular case in point. The embargo placed on the Special Account for
almost two years as a result of the investment in finance houses crippled the project. Long
delays in obtaining 'no objection' from the Bank to requests slowed down implementation.
There were instances of inconsistencies in project advice and directives by the Task Manager
that prevented project implementation. Constant turnover of Bank's staff on the project
created communication gap and as from about September 1996, no Task Manager was
assignecl to the project. Oversight and disregard of sections of the DCA and local laws by the
Bank staff tended to cause inconveniences and delays in project implementation. The. NITR,
which could have afforded the opportunity to restructure the project. ended in a stalemate, as
there was disagreement on the interpretation of the DCA between the Bank and the Borrower
on the rnanagement of the project. On major policy issues. the Bank, on many occasions, by-
passed the PAFGC, which was set up in accordance with the provision of the DCA and
backed by the Borrower's legal instrument. There was little or no cooperation between Part A
and Part B of the project, a situation that made the achievement of project objective difficult.
This arose out of the project design and the desire of the Bank to relate independently with
the different management of Parts A and B.
e.    Assessment of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance
The overall performance of the Borrower. represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF),
FMOH, DCDPA, PAFGC, PAFA and CAs. was satisfactory in project preparation bur deficient in
implementation. Compliance with covenants was good except for the delay in promulgating the
enabling legislation and in setting up ot. the project management structure. As a result. some of the
implementation time was lost. The Borrower released counterpart funds. although the releases were
often late ancl irregular. The population policy coordinating machinery and technical support
provided by D)CDPA was weak. The FMOH could not pay sufficient attention to population
programme because of preoccupation  with more important and urgent health  issues. The
performance of PAFA was only marginally satisfactory. The unauthorized investment made in the
early life of the project. complaints about delavs in the release of funds to CAs and the play-down of
fund generation in the face of large disposable credit were the major drawbacks of the Agency.
However, PAIFA recorded some successes in institutional development with appropriate guidelines
for all aspects of project impiementation, management and monitoring of project resources as well as
timely submission of statutory reports, namely work-plans and audited financial reports. In all
twenty-five studies were undertaken on the project. PAFA produced a book on national population
and development issues, contributed to the success of the Nigerian delegation at the International
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) and sensitized Vision 2010 Committee to
address population and development concerns. The performance of PAFGC was satisfactory. Its
prompt reaction to the unauthorized investment led to the improvement in the financial management
of the project and the institutionalization of procedures to prevent future occurrence. In the first one
and a half years of implementation, the overall performance of the project was satisfactory and the
project became a reference point for other projects. The situation changed with the appointment of a
new Task Manager and the exit of key people who designed and started the project. Performance
started to decline as a result of the embargo on the account as there was little or no fund for project
implementation. Indeed. the project had little chance to perform effectively as it was engaged in
contlict management throughout its life span.



55
The overall performance of the CAs was marginally satisfactory. As a result of the project, all
participating CAs had acquired appreciable experience and capability in the implementation ot inter-
sectoral population programme through training of existing staff, equipment supply and project
development and impiementation. They could have performed better had thev not experienced delays
in opening their account, financial difficulties due to irregular funding and staff turnover. However,
they did not integrate the subproject with other on-going services. Future project requires greater
integration with existing programmes.
The overall performance of the Bank has been rated marginally satisfactory. The identification of the
project responded to a clear need to create institutional support and expand services. Though the
project was complex and demanding for the Borrower and the implementing agencies, it proyided a
reasonable approach to achieving the objectives set in the National Population Policy. As a learning
process in inter-ministerial and inter-sectoral collaboration and funding, project management should
have been left with one organization that could relate to all stakeholders. The Borrower's
commitment to all project components was underestimated and the mechanism of integrating the
subprojects into the individual sector was not thought through. The project design and appraisal
made too many assumptions especiallv in predicating the project on donor's contribution of
contraceptives; dual responsibility for project management. and on weak inter-ministerial and inter-
sectoral collaboration. Indeed, the major problem of the project was in the instirutional structure for
project management. The project design appeared to underestimate the project management risk
especially the need to minimize inter-ministerial competition and rivalry. Generally, the overall
evaluation of project risks was very weak. In project supervision, the overall performance of the
Bank was unsatisfactory as the project became Bank-driven and the Borrower had to request for a
change in a Task Manager who became overbearing and committed project funds without the
authority of the Borrower. The Bank, denied the receipt of the 1997 work plans, which were
technically analyzed by DCDPA and commended by the Bank. This claim of non-receipt of the work
plans was one of the reasons given by the Bank for suspending the credit before its cancellation.
f.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
On balance, the project did not achieve its overall objectives. Of the original objectives under Part
A, little was done to strengthen institutions at the state and local government levels. Nonetheless, the
training provided to the health care workers, information officers, planning officers and other
categories of the civil society enhanced their understanding of the issues they handle. At the federal
level, however, the project renovated the offices of the seven CAs. DCDPA and PAFA. The
technical and management capabilities of these organizations as well as that of the African Regional
Health Education Centre (ARHEC) and some hospitals had been strengthened. The project was not
able to sustain the momentum of implementation because of irregular funding. The project generated
inter-sectoral involvement, general enthusiasm for and awareness of population programme. The
project helped to finance seven sub-projects. PAFGC had been established and was functioning to
assist PAF with policy management functions.
The implementation of the Phase 1I subprojects, which was to commence in year 3,could not take
off. The 36 proposals which were finally approved for funding came two vears late, by which time,
the Bank had suspended the credit. With respect to Part B, the PRF was established. It commissioned
research and conducted a series of workshops for researchers. In all about ........ researches were
undertaken, appraised but their results are yet to be published.



56
The sub-projects funded or financed spanned through the states with coordinating centres in Lagos
and Abuja. The project was also successful in obtaining a favourable response tfrom  other
stakeholders to collaborate. The overall outcome rating of the project is unsatisfactory but very
promising.
4.  SUiMMARY OF FEINDINGS, FUtURE OPERATIONS
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
a.    Important Findings of Project Implementatiori Experience
One of the most important findings of the implementation experience is the unsuitability of the
institutional arrangement put in place for the project. Two separate institutions, DCDPA and PAFA,
were placed in technical and financial management of the project respectively.
The constant changing of Task Managers and their different approaches to project super-vision
affected project implementation. Moreover, the project experienced delays in obtaining the
mandatorv 'no objections' for major activities.
Some of the first sets of local officers appointed on the project were young and dynamic but lacked
project management experience. As a resuit, project funds were placed in finance houses without
authoritv. The implementation experience also points to the need to have experienced people manage
a complex project like the NPP.
Follow-up on major decisions reached on the project was slow and delayed project implementacion.
The decision to lift the embargo reached at the Portfolio Performance Review meeting in September
1996 was not implemented. The ameridment to the ambiguous clause in Schedule I (percentage for
disbursement from the credit) took about eighteen months. The controversies that followed the MTR
meeting with iMs attendant stoppage of project implementation could have been avoided if the parties
had abided by the provisions of the DCA.
Experience also showed that a population project was not feasible without contraceptive supplv.
Emphasis was placed on institutional development with dependence on other donor agencies for
critical inputs such as contraceptives. The Phase II subproject proposals developed to address
contraceptive supply and logistics could not take off.
b.    Future Operations and Sustainabilitv
Out of the seven-year project life, the project was implemented effectively for not more than two
years. Therefore, the project cannot be said to be operational with regards to achieving its stated
objectives. The main achievement of the project had been to prepare the ground and gather
momentum for project implementation nationally. The operational expectation would have come with
going into the field under Phase I subprojects and funding and implementing the thirtv-six Phase II
subprojects which unfortunately did not take-off. The Borrower had expressed its commitment and is
willing to provide continued financial support to the project. It has also set up necessarv machinery
to mobilize more resources for the sustenance of the project.
However, given the enormity of the resources needed for the national popuiation programme.
assistance fro:m bilateral and multilateral organisations will be required for some time to come.
Consequentiv. the Borrower may have to renew the credit for the project with the Bank in view of its



57
investment potential and strategic nature. A new Bank-financed project should focus on integrating
population needs into development planning; reducing population growth rate through-fertility
regulation. family planning and reproductive health services and information; increasing access to
cafeteria system of contraceptive supply, demand creation. information and supportive advocacy and
project management information services.
The prospect for sustainability of the project is high. The policy statement of the Borrower on the
Vision 2010 Committee Report. a blueprint of future development of the country, supports a virile
population project. The Borrower has assumed responsibility for the operation of PAFGC and PAFA
and has started committing its own resources to the procurement of contraceptives. Thus, the
poiitical will has been demonstrated and is assured .
c.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector
Lessons for Project Design: In designina a population project like NPP, it is absolutely essential to
have performance objectives that are ends not means. are specific. measurable, attainable and
realistic. Identifying performance objectives at the project onset is critical for project monitoring and
evaluation. For a project involving a total sum of US$93.8 million and spreading over a period of
seven years. performance indicators are required to allow for periodic review of progress made. re-
planning of activities and reordering of priorities
The NPP was also designed to be mid-wived by too manv intermediaries especially the reproductive
health and family planning subprojects. For a result-oriented project not more than one intermediarv
should be involved to cut down on communication time and cost. The design should also note that as
a aevelcpment project. all processes fqr approval and levels of authoritv should facilitate rather than
retard project implementation.
A project involving inter-ministerial and inter-sectoral collaboration should be designed with
autonomous project management in view and with no more than one supervising authoritv. The duo
management structure with varied levels of preparedness and commitment affected inter-sector
collaboration and slowed down project implementation. The project design should have taken
account of this unequal starting points and consultants from within both public and private sectors
should have assisted in the provision of the technical support. In a project requiring an inter-sectoral
collaboration, it becomes necessary to have technical committee meeting to harmonize project
implementation to avoid duplication and ensure completeness and sustainability. In this regard. a
well-articulated donor coordination strategy and project appraisal programme should be made part of
the project to avoid duplication and wastage of efforts and resources.
The design of the project assumed that CAs would have some autonomy in managing their
subprojects in their various organizations. In reality, the CAs could not function without the
concurrence of the most senior officers in their organizations. What is more, the amount of fund
available to CAs became a source of envv to the other members of their organizations. When the
source of fund is from more than one donor, the envv is more and the opening of the various
accounts by each CA became a big problem considering the establishmenc procedures and level of
authority for such financial transactions in their respective establishments. The launch workshop
provided an opportunity to educate impiementers on the procedures of the Bank. Such workshops
should also be organized for the most senior officers of the implementing organization. so that the
subproject could have their support and delegated responsibility.



58
Lessons for Project Implementation and Ma.nagement:  It is very difficult to effectivelv coor-dinate
national population programme or project from a line department in a ministry. Inter-ministerial and
inter-sector collaboration is an initiative which work best under an autonomous acgency or
commission and the future focus should be to create such a commission/agency to impiement the
national population program. Furthermore, the implementation of the project focussed on
institutional capacity building at the expense of provision of services. It is important that the focus
should be on the end, not intermediate, beneficiaries.
NPP was designed for integration into Government roiling plans and other population related
projects. Some CAs appeared to implement projects of individual donors verticallv without
integration into the rolling plans. The rolling plan of each CA or its equivalent should always be
presented with pro" ect submission for appraisal and approval to ensure effective integration. In order
to generate total support and commitment to a subproject, the head of the organization ot the CA
should be a signatory to the subproject agreement and be familiar with operational guideline for
CAs. Staff recruited and trained for the project should, as much as practicable be motivated and.
PAFA should recruit trained accountants to be attached to subprojects for accountabilit-y purpose.
Also, in order to remove delavs, the procedure for disbursement of funds to CAs had been
programmed to meet the needs of quarterly activities and in accordance with the work-Olan. The
Bank should respect the principle of subsidiarity in delegation of responsibility and authorn..
The Bank needs to upgrade the quality of its project supervision. The Bank staff should be
facilitators and identify with project successes. The Bank should streamline its supervision plans and
procedures to facilitate efficient and rapid project implementation, including the use of consultants.
In the management of the project, inter-sectoral coilaboration machinerv should be strengtthened and
form the basis for the Bank's interaction with the project. All parties should respect the legal
documents (DCA and local laws) that guide the implementation of the project.
The Bank's major criterion for measuring performance of project is level of draw down. Tnere is the
need for the Bank to expand project performance indicators to include such factors as phvsical
performance, institutional development and realistic target setting.
The Way Forward: The Borrower should renew and renegotiate a new credit for NPP.
In view of the inter-sectoral nature of the project and in order to achieve national objectives. the
credit should be centralized and disbursed to the various sectors, state and local governmert:.
communities and NGOs.



59
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1              Summary of Assessment                               13
Table 2              Related Bank Loans/Credits                          14
Table 3              Project Time-Table                                  14
Table 4              Actual Implementation Period                        15
Table 5              Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and       15
Actual
Table 6              Key indicators for Project implementation           16
Table 7              Studies included in the Project                     17
Table 8a             Project Costs                                       21
Table Sb             Project Financing                                   '
Table 9              Status of Legal Covenant                            1'



60
Table I        Summary of Assessments
A.      Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
Assesme lt .Ctgory-                 aubsa          [  artWa    Negliible     No Applicable
Macro socio-economic policies                     |
Sector policies                                    _                        __
Financial objectives                                  I
Instituional development                           -                        _      _     _
Physicai objectives1                                  /  
Poverry reduction
Gender concerns                                                   I
FOther soci.al objectives                          j
Environmental objectives          iI
Public sector management          i
Private sector development E
Others (e.g partnership with other                    /
agencies)
B.     Proiect Sustainabilitv
L? : i -: rikelV-iy  |       Uncertain:                      Unlikelv
] ~/ 
C.     Bank Per) rmance
Stage cproject cycle          Highiv satisfatoFry   1 Satisractory    Deficient
Identification                                                           i
PreparaEio a Assistance                                  i
Appraisal                                                                .
n
~Supervision                                                            I 
D.     Borrower Performance
1,  Stage c' pIroject cycle       Highly:satisfactory: 1 Satisfactory    D eteient
Identification                                                  /
Preparatio n                                             i
Implementation                                           I                     ./
Covenant compliance                                             /
E.     Assessment of outcome
-igh+ly satisfactory i      iSatsfactory   Unsaisfactorv           Highly.
unsatisfactorv



61
Table 2        Related Bank LoansiCredits in the Health Sector
I StEl-  -:  --.  Mthe  :  -Loant/Credit    Year of    Purpose                Status
:  ._._:_.:________.;:_:_:_:no.             approval.
I     Sokoto Health Project    Loan. 2503 UNI   1986           To provide assistance to   Closed
tiaternial and child health
activities, a key determiiianti
of fertility
2.   T liio Healthi &          Loan 3034 UN[   1989            To provide assistance for   Closed
Population Project                                     liealth anid populatioi
activities including support
for devClopnicris ofslate
population coordi nation
office
3.    Essenitial Drugs Project   Loan. 3125 U N    1989        To provide assistanice for  Closed in
strengthieninig lhealthi   Juiie 1997.
delivery systenm anid for
procuring drugs includitin
conitraceptives.
4.    Healtih Systems Fund     Loani. 3326 INI   1991          To provide assistance to    On-eoillo.. to
Project                                                 states and LGAs for         close by June
developingl health delivery    1999.
systems into whichi FP can
L   ________________________  _________________  __________  -   he    inte grated
Table 3        Project Time-Table
|Steps iii Pr ct Cycle   -                 PlAnned date                    Actual date
Signing                                       .                              June 17. 1991
Effectiveness                                  September 17. 1991            Februarv 10. 1992
Project Launch                                                               March 1992
Subproject implementation                       -                            January 1993
Commencement
Mid-term  Review                               June 30, 1994                 June 30, 1997
Project Completion                             June. 1998                    December 1998
Credit Closing                                  December 31, 1998            April 30, 1999
*Part A amounitinga to S64.84 was cancelled on April 30. 1998.



62
Table 4         Actual anid Effective linplemiienitatioii Pleriod
:Priod- t-i05-;;0S 1 M Natureof Event   I            Cause-                    Reffarks
July 1. 1991 - Dec.    Start-up evenits          Mleeting the conditionalities in   Delay in start up
1992                                            tie DCA (Se tting up of PAF.   attributable to tJie
PAFA &PAF GC, appoinitmienit  Borrower
of key officers of PAFA etc)
June 1993 -           Unfavourable political     Anunulled presidential election    Force majeure
November 1993         environent - Junle 12
crisis
June 1994 -           Uiifavourable political  IiAniniversary of alitulled     Force majeure
November 1994         environimenit - Juiie II   presidential clectioll
atuuiversary crisis
August 1995 -         Suspensionf] of            Conflicting ,1oerpretation of   I Attriburable to the
Septenmber 1996       dishursemuenit to the      Sclhedule I of DCA -           Bank
Project                   Percentage of expenditure to
be fitnaiced from thie credit.
September 1995 -      Embargzo on Special        IInvestigationl of investmilent  Mainly attributable to
April 1997            Accoulit                   placed in finanice lhouses in.    tile Bank and thie
February 1993.                 Borrower
July 1997 - to April   Staleniate following .N0TR   Disregard for the provision of   Attributable to the
1998                                            legal instrunienits (DCA and    i Bank and the Borrower
I Nigerian Law)
B.     Period of Effective Project Activities
January 1993            -      June 1993        -       6 months
December 1993          -       May 1994        -        6 montlis
December 1994          -       August 1995  -           9 months
May                    -       June 1997       -        2 monthls
TOTAL           -       23 monlths
Table 5         Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS 'Million)
C:(or pan tivei-n 0i04dwto   F-Y         FY2    I FY3    F:Y4          FY5         F67              FY8S
Appraisal estimatet         1 3.50      10.60   I19.30    35.10    49.10    60.80   73.40    78.50
Actual2                      2.50      2.56   - 5.39        6 98      7.36   j 8.72    9.05        9.66
Actual as % of estimate    71.43    24.12    27.90  119.89    15.00    14.35   12.33    12.31
1.     [ncludes allocation to Part B
2nAmounit drawn down by Part A only.



63
Table 6       Key Inidicators for Project Implementationt
Key implementation                                     I
indicators in the                                                                 I
SAR/Preside nt's                                       I
Report                                                1,
No itndicators were included in tIhe SAR



Table 7         Studies/Framewvork Doctminents Included in/Undertaken by the Project
S/N      Year                  Study                         Purpose as defined at                   Status                Impact of study
_   i  _ _   I  _ _ _ _  _    _                appraisal/redefined
1.    1992         Developnient of Operational    To develop operational and procedural          Completed         himprovenient of different aspects
Manual for the Population       manual for the managenient axid                                of project management and
Activities Fund (PAF).          imiplenmenitationi of the project in line with                 implelmienitation.
the agreements.
2.     1992         Preparationi of Subproject      To (levelop subproject agreemetits to        Completed         Improved project
Agreemrienit.                   inclu(de (ihe objectives of each subproject.                   implementation.
activities to he undertakemi, costs and(
coveilai(ts.
3.     1993         Fimiancial Accountinig Policy    To develop fintancial accouiitinig procedures  Comipleted.    Improved accountability for the
and Procedures Mantial.         and maniial for the project in-line withi                      project.
World Blank guiideli nes and iinternationnalI
fiinancial stanidards and reguaiLtio tis
4.   I 1993         Procurenent Schedules.          To develop procuremiienit schedules in line    Coniipleted.    Effective procurenieiit systems
Planninig and Bidding           with die provisions of the SAR antd Cost                       for tine project.
DocuIIIenits.                   Tables and( prepare standard bidding
docuwienits for the various procureientii
packages.
S.     1993         Staff Handbook for the          To develop appropriate compensation anid    Comipleted         Ilmprovenmenit of services of
Populationi Activities Fund     conditionis of services for the staff of                       workers.
Agency.                         PAFA.
6.     1991         ['rainiiig Policy tor ilte      T o d(cvelol) a laiiniig p)olicy lo r ic              IlCoplevmed  lii ipo)Velicilet ot Capacity
Population Activities Fund      project,                                                       building.
7.     1993        Coimpuiterizationi of Financial   To develol) appropriate comiputerized       Comilpleted        improved tile accountability of
aiid Accountinig Procedures     program) for the implementationi of thie                       time project.
Manual                          Finaticial an)d Accountinig Policy anid
_ ___________  ._________________________________  Proced  ures.



S/N      Year                 Study                         Purpose as defined at                 Status                Impact of study
appraisal/redefined  _
8.     1993        Population Activities Fuid     To publicize the fund and subprojects to be  Completed        Increase awareness of PAF and
Brochiure                      funded under it.                                             submission of subproject
proposals.
9.     1994        Operational Manual for the     To develop operational guidelines and       Completed         Improved performance of CAs.
Collaborating Agencies.        manual for the implementation of die
subprojects.
10.    1994        Compelisationi Review for      To review the managemciit structure and     Comiipleted       Improvenient in job performanice
PAFA.                          recommend appropriate compensationi                          and satisfaction.
packages for tie staff of PAFA.
I.    1994        Development of Monitorinig     To develop specitic, tnieasurahle and       Completed         Improved project perfomranlce
In(licators tor the Project.   realistic mioniitoritng indicators for thle                  and managemiienit
subprojects.
12.    1994        Selection of a University in   To develop strategies for the selection of    Comspleted      Identification of a center ior
tlie Nortn for tile Replicationi   an appropriate University in thic northlernl             health education in tile north.
otf a Ceniter of Excellence for   pan of the country for replication of the
Health Education.              Africaim Revional Healthi Education Centre
located in the Southl.
13.    1995        Guideline and Forms for the    To develop appropriate guidelines and       Conipleted        Iiiproved quality of subproject
Preparation of Subproject     fomis to he followed in the developtment of                   proposals submitted for fundinig.
Proposals (for Phase 11).      Phase 11 sutbproject proposals.
14.    1995        Design of Public Inforniation   To review and desigin progrianines for ihe    Completed      Increascd awareness of
Programmies.                   disseminaition of informiation oni population                population issues at the
ftomily lile I[EC at the grassroots.                         grassroots.
15.    1995        Needs Assessmienit for 110     To develop the lists of requiremiienits for the   Conipleted  Better assessmeniit of procurenienit
Reprodluctive Primiiary -iealthi   110 pritnary healtil facilities to deliver the           requiremenits for tmedical
Facilities.                    aiinticipatedl level of services.                            equipment, supplies, civil works.
training and mianipower
developimienit strategies.



S/N      Year                 Study                         Purpose as defined at                  Status                Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
16.    1995        Baselinie Study for            To obtaini a clear indication of public and  Completed         Improved prograii, needs,
Knowledge, Attitude anid       community needs tor population and( family                     project design and
Practice (PICB)                planninig inforniation and education.                          ituplcinie ntatiol.
17.    1995        Baseline studies for           To obtain a cerar indicalion of community    Colpleted         Improved program, needs,
Kntowledge, Attitudes and      and clinical needs for reproductive health                     project design and
Practice (HEB)                 and famtily planning inifonnation atid                        implementation
education.
18.    1995        Assessing Contraceptive         To assess contraceptive needs and logistics   Completed       Improved contraceptive
Needs in Nigeria.              maniagement of thte country for five years                     assessment and supply.
and make a forecast for the requiremenit of
cot)luttodities.
1.    1995        I'hase 11 Subproject Proposal   Iao (develop a subproject [proposal lor th-e    Completed    Improved knowledge ot
tor Contraceptive Supply.      supply of contraceptives uiider Phase 11.                     contraceptive nteeds, supply and
logistics.
)0.    1995        TIraininig Manual in 1-leailh   T o develop appropriate training policy and   Completed      liprove kinowledge ot Healtl
Education and kmnmi ily         manual on fanmily planninig prog ramntmes tor                 Educators and change of'
Planiniig Programme at LGA    lhealth educators at the LGA levei as a                         behaviour of heneficiaries.
Level                          follow-up oni the KAP studies
21.    1996        Needs Assessment in 22          To develop a list of requiremncits tor 22   Comlpleted        Improved assessmenit of
Seconidary and 4 Tertiary      secondary anid 4 tertiary healih facilities to                 specification for miedical
Reprodictive Health Cenitres.   provide a level of services in repro(luctive                  eluipment and supplies, civil
healilit                                                       works, training and mianpower.
22.    1 996       Review of Finmaunc ial         ITo review the accountinLg sysiteii o, PAF  Comupleted        Itmupraved ti imauc al nianavngcnmet
Acconting Procedures and       and bring it up to date with disbursement                      and accoutitability throughi the
Managemlent.                   guidelines anid other financial regulations.                   reorganization and streamlininii
of ftniaitcial anid accoulitiPig
fontctionisof PAFA.



SIN      Year                 Study                         Purpose as defined at                 Status                Impact of study
_________                       appraisat/redefined                 _
23.    1997.       Mid-Term Review                To conduct separate studies into five       Completed         Imiproved knowledge of project
Preparationi Studies:         aspects of project implementationi and                        performance and future
i.      Review of             nianagement.                                                  orientation.
Reproductive Health
subprojects
ii.     Review of IEC
subprojects
iii.    Review of Data
Management
subprojects
iv.     Study of
Management and
Coordination of NPP
v.      Beneliciary
Assessineiu stmidy
24.    1997         Developneiit of Appropriate    To develop appropriate methodology and     Not comiipleted.
Methiodology for the          prograninies for the integration of
Integrationi of Population    population variables into planuning                           (Temis of reference and short-list
Variables into Planninig      processes at federal, state and local                         of consultants developed beftre
Processes.                     movermient levels,                                           the witlhdrawal of the credit).
25.    1998.       Tecihnical Specifications, Bills  To develop tile techniical specifications for   Partially
or Quantity and Trainitig     medical equipnieit and supplies, bills of   completed.
PIrogram for the Expanision of  qLuanitity tor civil works and trainilig                    (Bills of qtuanitity for civil works
Services in I 10 Primiary, 22    programimiie for ihe 110 primiary, 22                       in I 10 primary facilities only
Seconidary and 4 Tertiary     secondary and 1 tertiary reproductive                         completed hefore ilte withdrawal
Reproductive Ceniters.        healthi ceiltres on the reports of the needs                  of Ile credit).
______    .assessmellt.



68
Table 8a      Project Costs bv Category of Expenses
Category                           (US$ Million)              (USS MNillion)
Total Allocatioii to PAF (Part A)                  Appraisal estimated       Actual/latest estimate
1. Phase I CAs                                   Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Integration of FP into MCH                        7.70     2.00     9.70      1.24     0.36     1.60
Promotion of FP tirough HEB                       2.90     1.70     4.60     0.89      0.55     1.45
Tertiary Centres for Reproductive Hlealtih        8.50     4.80    13.30      1.33     0.91     2.24
Public Enligihtenmienit for Population            1.80     0.60     2.40     0.79      0.68     1.47
Pop/FLE througli Primary Schools                  5.10     0.10     5.20     0.38      0.20     0.58
Monitoring of NPP Impact thirough a Seniitnel
Survey System                                     1.40     0.30     1.70     0.69      0.11     0.80
Integration of Polpulation inito Development Plan  1.10    1.70     2.80     0.45      0.29     0.74
Sub-total                                        28.50    11.20    39.70     5.77      3.10     8.87
2.  Phase 11 subprojects                         27.30    10.70    38.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
3.  Development of PAFA (to manage PAIF)
a.  Equipimienit. 'Vehicles. etc.                                            0.56    0.098      0.65
b.  Consultanicy Service & Traininlc                                          0.23     0.22     0.45
c.  Travels & Operating Expienses                                             2.75     0.01     2.75
Sub-total                                         2.40     1.50     3.90      3.53     0.31     3.85
4.  Dept. of Population Activities
a.  Equipment, Vehiicies, etc.                                                0.20     0.14     0.34
b.  Progranmne Support and Othiers                                            0.39     0.15     0.54
Sub-total                                        5.40      2.60     8.00     0.59     0.29     0.88
Total Allocation to PAF (Part A)                 63.60    26.00    89.60      9.89     3.70    13.59
5.  Operation oif PRF                             3.80     0.20     4.00
Total Project Cost (Part A and B)                67.40    26.20    93.60      9.89     3.71    13.60
Note: Different exchange rates applied during the reported periods above leading to exchange iosses.



69
Table 8b     Project Financinig
Category                 (US$ Million)                           (US$ Million)
Appraisal estimated                   Actual/latest estimate
Source          Local   |  Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign        Total
IDA                       0.00       78.50        78.05         2.07          6.98         9.05
FGN                      15.30                    15.30         5.71          0.00         5.71
Others                    0.00                     0.00         0.27          0.00         0.27
Total                    15.30        78.50       93.80         8.05          6.98        15.03
Note:
i.   TThe "cut-off" date for the above schiedule is June 30. 1998.
ii.    The FGN contribution indicated above did not include thie unspent cash balances.



T able 9        Statuis of Legal Coveniants
Secl on io. of                                    Covenaitl                                         Status'                          Comments
cre(lit agreement
2.02 (h)            The Borrower shall, for tie purpose of the Project, opeii and niainwtain in          C             None
dollars. two special deposit accounts (the PAF Special Accounst and the
PRF Special Accounit) in coimmercial or merclaiit banks oii termis and
conditions satistactory to tie Association including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachmnlt. Deposits iito, anid payments out of,
die Special Accounis shall be miade in accordance witi tie provisions of
Schiedule 5 to this Agreenient.
2.04 (a)            The Borrower shall pay to tie Association a comnuitinent clharge oni the             C             None
principal amlounit of the Credit not wididr4wn from time to time at a rate
to he set by (ie Association as of Jutie 30 of eachi yetr, bhut not to exceedl
itlC tie 4ofn inc-hal'ol 0une percent (1/2 ol I % ) per annui.
(h1            I lie ci utiiinemii charige sl 11h aceliule: (i) tloII file dtic Axly dlayS ailler ilie  (        Nonie
date of this Agreeiienit (Ie Accrual date) to thie respective dates on whiich 
aniount shiall be wididrawn by tie Borrower front tie Credit Account or
Co                          canucelled: and (ii) at the rate set as of tihis Juine 30 iinniediately precedinig
dile accrual date or at such othier rates as niay be set from timle to timie
thtereafter pursuanit to paragraph (a) above. Thie rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall he applied fro tilie next payiiei in that yealr specified in
Sectionl 2.06 of this Agreemienlt.
(_             The coninlintinent charge shall he paid: (i) at sticih places as the Association    C             None
shalil reasonably request: (ii) wilihout restrictioins of aniy kiiid impiosed by.
or iii ile territory of, the Borrower; anid (iii) in  die cur-renicy specified ill
ithis Agreemeni for ilte purpose of Section 4.02 of ile General CotiditioIs
or in suc h otler eligible currenicy or currenicies as iiay fromu tinie to tiune
be desiLlnated or selected pursuanit to teie provisiotis of that Sectioni.
.Status  C = In cooinplianice; Cl)= Coim pliance after del(ay; Cl'= Comriplied 4ith patliallv; NC= Not int compliance; NYD= Notyet due



Section no. of                                          Covenant                                                Status                                Comments
credit a2reeinent
'.05                   T'he Borrower shall pay to die Associationi a service charge at t e rate of                    C               Nonie
three-fourtihs of one percent (3/4 of I %) per ainnum  oni the pricicipal
aniocilit Of (tie Credit withdrawin and outstanding frocc ticice to ciiiie.
2.06                    Conii nient charges and service charges shall be payable seniiianniiually                     C               Nonec
on( Match 15 anid September 15 in eacih year.
2.07 (ac                Snbject to paragraphs (b) anid (c) below, the Borrower shall repay the                      NYD)              Noiin
principal amiounit of the Credit in semlianinitial inistahiniciets payable on each
Marcih 15 anid Septeniber 15 comucnieicizig Septem]ber 15, 2001 anid eniding
March 15, 2026. Each inistaliniient to acnd inicludinig the instaillmnelit payable
oil Marcci 15, 2') II shall be olle andi onee-tourill per cJlct (1I /4%) of StiCih
plrincipal actlolitil, and each itistaillinent thereafter shall be two and oine-
hall' per ceict (2-)/2%) ot' suchi principal ainiioutii.
3.01 (;1)               The Borrower declares its ctOlit nt llt tO eili obt'jectives of tile Project as               C               'I'lTe reievant bodies in the FMOI I are spelt
set tortil in SchIe(dule 2 to this Agreetient, a;d, to tihis ecid, shall carry out                            ott in Schedule 2 (Part A, paragraph. I) aiid
Part A of tlie P'roject through FMOI I and Palrt B of the Project through                                     Sectioii 3.01(c) of dile DCA.
NISER. all with due diligence atndl efticiency and(l in coniloniiiy wilt
appropriate adminiistrative. tinantcial, nianiageeniet acid population
practices, and sliall provide, proniptly as needed, the fiuii(s.  ficcilities.
services anid othler resources reqiuired for the Projeec.
Ib)              'I'lie Bo rrowe r shall ca;rry Our tI cc l'roject inc acCOrdacice wilh lite                    C               NOIIe.
IlMIlclCuiltiltatiol l-cocEcicieSc SCt 1(rli icc Schedule I   ci ithis Agice ncciec.
(I'lib  Borrower shiall establisIh, acid ilkerealfter ic ciitaiiic, icc a tonl-cii acidl witic  C             Noice
tfnctiocIs satisfactory to dile Associaidon tdie Populatioui Activities Fund
(PAF) acid chie Populationc Activities Futind Agency (PAFA) referredl to in
Plart A. I of the Project.
.2                     Except as (lie Association shall otherwise agree, proiluirenlecit of (le                     C                Nonie
cc ods , %vcck s iclicl Coisuiltanits' scvices c equird c l hi0 c Ice  ciJecc acllid it) Ihe
[' 11aciced OUlt ucl (Ike IOrceeds of the C redit  shalil be gcoVeccned by tie
-- /it _OMpliance               OIIS Co otpliaic aferdelavto CPl    Cope d __             _     _                  _ _ _ _ _            _i_     __NY_= _Vo_ye_t_die
c = In, coin pliance; CD -c.,tmiplian.ce tijier delay; cr= Comnplied ,ic'ili partially; NC= Nof in Comp/iance; N YD = Not yetdue



Sectio'  11. ot                                       Covenanit                                              Status'                             Comments
credit agr&ment
3.03                   The B3orrower shall open and maintain until completioni of the Project, a                  C               None.
Project Accoumt for Part A of the Project, into whicih it shall make
(quarterly deposits of its counterpart contribuition, in accordanilce with the
estimated re(quireiients for Part A of the Project. The Borrower and thie
Associationi presently estiliate the said contril)utionis to amount inl the
at!gregate to $15.300,000( ecluivalelit over the Project perio(l.
4.0O1 (a)              Thle Borrower shiall miaintaini or cause to he maintained records aiid                     C               None
accouiiits adequate to reflect it, accorlatice wihi sound accounting prictices
the operations, resources anid expendituires iii respect of the Project of the
departnieits or agencies of the Borrower responsible fir carrying out the
.Project or any part thereof.                                               _
(h)             'ITlie Borrowver shall:                                                                    (C               None
ill  I live tlhe rCcolds aid accountits rele re(d o itl pariagraplt (a) of tliiS Sectiont
itclitiLuitig th1oSe h)r ithe Special A'Comtits li)r each liscal year audited itt
accorda nce \vitii appropriate and iniitg prin cilmes cOnIsisttently applied, by
indepetndetnt autditors acceptable to t(le Associatiotn:
[ iil  Furnish to the Association, as sooii as available hut in any case inot laiter            CP              The 1997 audit was delayed because the
thati six miotiths after tihe enid of each suchi year, a certified copy of the                            Borrower did not receive a reply to its
report of stucii atidit by the said auditors, of suchi scope a Utid in stICih letailil                    request for 'iio objectiot' to engage ati
as ithe Association shall have reasotahle req(u:estcd: and(i                                              extertial auditor.
liii   I:u rnisl lt) ie Association such other in fornmation concerning said                      C              Notie
records, accounis ti d thie aIdit ilereoft as tike Associatiomt shall  otm tioie
tO titllie reasonabl y reqluest.
(c)                For all expeti(idiures with respect to whichi withdrawals froto the Ciedit
Account were ma ide ott time hasis of stateniemits ot expe0(1it tire tile
borrow.er sh.-!!
il  tilaititaini or cause to be niainitained  it accordance with paragraph (a) of               C               None
thiis Sectiomi. records and accoutits rellectinig sutch expelnditiures:
C= In cormpliance: CD)  (C'ompliance  fJier delay; Cl=  (Coinplie(l svitih paryalily. NC = NVot itt Cwoniplianice; N YI)= Not yet die



Sectioni no. of                                    Covenanit                                            Status                            Comments
credit Lgreement
liii  Retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit           C             None
report tor fiscal year in whicih tie last withdrawal fromi dlie Credit
Accouinit or payment otUt of a Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills. receipts anid other docuimentis)
evidencing suclh expendittires;
liiili  Enable the Association's represemliatives to examine suchl records; anld             C              Two World Baiik internal auditors inispected
the accounts of the project in March, 1996
andc comimiilenided the aIccotiniig systeII.
livi  Ensure that suchi records and accoulits arC included in the aninual audit              C              Witl comiimenidationi from the Bantk
refterred to in paragraph (b) of this Sectioii anid that die report of such
audit c(ilt;lins a separate opillio ll hy said and itors as to whettieri tihe
staeirents ol'expeuditure subniied duitrinig suici liscali year, togetlher with
ilie procedures and iitieriutl conitrols inivoilvedi in liei t preparat itonis. cianl be
re lie(l tipoll to stipport t(ei rellad witidrawals.
l,l)l the ft it I(t}IOXYjIIe 1i0I ;wil mi evetl)s are Speiftied as additiiilall coll(tliiolns to (tle
e IlectiveiiCsS of tel  I )evelopniet t(redit Ag reemecunt withlii  lie etaniniiig  ol
Secniont 12.01 (b) of the General Coniditions:
(;i)          The Borrower has established PAFA in  accordhince with Section 3.01 (c)                C              None
of ttiis Agreemient.
l i          Ut t liic Porlrowe has estat it e slteis     a sub -Colsllillie: *iif Niiee  Pt)   applove  CD        PAFF Gove rin)g Council WaIs esiaihthftsed by
sutbvettioiis froilu PAF and supervise I'AI- operat ions.                                             Decree 19 ot 1994
IThe Bo rower has appoiited a full-till tmianiager or 'PAFI oi ternis anid            C             Nonie
co0nditions. aiid with qualifications, satistactory to the Association; anid
(d)           Tite Borrower has opened the Project Accounit atidl has nilade an iniitial             C             None
dcp)osit of N5 mlllion inlo fihe Project Accosnnll.
C= In comtpliance, CD= Cotinplianice nf'ter delay; CP= Cotinplied sitht paitiall'; NC= Not in Compliance; NYD)= NVot yet due



Sectioi ito. of                                    Covenaint                                           Status'                           Comtnments
credit a reement                     ..       __________
Scheduile 2          Establislittent of the Populationi Activities Fund (PAF) to prtovide grant to           C             None
Pan A          (I)   Collaborating Agencies (CAs); establishmienit of a Population Activities
Fund Agency (PAFA) in FMOH to manage the financial operations of
PAF: and strengthening the capacity of die Department of Population
Activities (DPA) to maniage the techinical operations of PAF.
(2)   Carrying otit subprojects in priority population areas                                 C             None
4)   Pliase 2 Subprojects                                                                   CP             Out of 286 proposals evaluated for Phase 11,
the Borrower approved 36 for funding but the
Carryinig out of otiler population related subprojects as reflected iln the                          credit was suspended and later cancelled
Borrower's aniially updated three-year rolling plan for population.                                  before take off.
Scictidule 3 I) 1     Ixcept as provided in Part fl lie-cof, goods sialiil be procutired unider              C             None
Part A               contracts awarded it accordanije with proce(ures consistent widt dltose set
bortili i Sectionis I and If of thJ "Guidelinies tor Procurement untider IBRD
loanis and IDA Credlits" ptublished by ihc Bank in May 1985 (tilc
Schieduile 4     Thle Borrower shtall organtize aiuitiil conlsultative mueetings itooig) DPA,          CP             Wliile aninual conisultative meetitigs were
Part A (I)      PAFA, NISER anid CAs at whiilt, inter alia, reports ot)l ite previous                                 lield, the MTR was delayed until July
year's perforiiatice shall be discussed widi tlhe Associationi and other                              1997.and it was inconiclusive,
initerested funJdiitg agencies. The Borrower sihall no later thani June 30,
1994 carry out ai mid-tenti review of tlte Project with tilte Association.
0)           The bhorrower siall niake tie proceeds of the Ctcdit available to CAs on a              C             Notte
grint basis. An ititial imistallienit sliall be provideld to a CA for
mobilization Inirposes cilual (a) to 10% of tile anticipated sublproject
fiinaltcing tor any subproJect estititated to cost die equivalenit of less tiani
$1 0)(0,0t). ir (b) t) 5% oif tilc aniticipated subproirc flin:aaimvt r.,. y
subproject estintatel to cost thte equivalent of $1 itillioni or immore,
pl)ovided tiat such installment of 10% or 5% shall be recovcred ill
connimection ivithl disbursemtenits tntdler iltis Agreemttentt ill a mlitime r to be
specilicdl by ilte Associatiost.
' , ( 'lnrpliaine; Cl)  (u Compiwane ajie, eIleaiv; ( 1'- ComplIietd ivith panriallyv; AV(C  NAlt it (iwim,plian,ce; NVI)=  'ot yet die



Section no. of                                     Covenant                                             Status                            Comments
creditd agreement                                                                               .  ._.       _.      _
PAFA and DPA sball by Septeniber 30 of eacih year furnisi to (lie                      C             Nonie
Association, for its review and coumienis, dicir work programimiles for
(3)          management of PAF for tbe followinig fiscal year. includiing projected
disbursemeniIts from PAF anid (ther tifianicial requiremienits.
Schieduile 4     PAFA sliall ciiter into subproject Agreetiets witli eacti CA. These                    C              None
Part A (6)       agreenients (a) shall set forth, inter alia, the agreed subproject obljectives
thLe procureilcemit plati and procedures, the in(licators lor nionitoring
sutliprojec executhion ihe obligations ol CA. inclidinig provision of
couniterpart lutids, and (b) shall require (i) establisimient of basic
accounting practices (iinclinig the keepiig Of recor(ds and accoulnts), tie
furniishlinig of aniual narrative and financial reports, the unidertakinig of
annual audits. and, (ii) tiat procurement utitler tile subpnroject Agrcemcnt
hc made in accordanice withi Sciceduile 3 to tihis Agreenient.
(7)          No later than Junie 30, 199). PAFA and DPA sliall carefully review every               CD             Work-planis for all subprojects were reviewed
new proposed subpro)ject amid every proposed extenisionii of existinig                                for the MTR  whiicih was iniconclusive.
subprojects to ensure that onily those subprojects or extensiolis of
Lr)                           subprojects likely to be completed before the expected completion daite of
tIhe Project shall he accepted for financing tintler the Credit.
(8)          The aedditioinal key staff of PAFA and DPA referred to in paragraph 3 (b)              C              None
aitld (c) inl Schleduile I shall: (i) have qualiicauions and experielice, and he
appoitited ont termis anid coniditiois satist4ctory to tie Association: anid (ii)
consist (A) with respect to PAFA of a Chief Finantce Officer, Chief
Programme Officer. Chief Admimiistrative Ofticer anid ami Inuternal
Atudilor: and (H) witi respect to D)PA of a Depluty Director and Assistant
Director btir NMonitorinig. Evaluation, and Research amid thiree ailditionQal
section *'liics in the services I H(, and Population and l)evuloptlumit
BlranclIes.
Schedule 4       (a) NISER shall, by Septemiiber 30 of eacih year firiiisli to the                      C              None
Pillt 11) s9)        Association, for its review anid commelits its work progratutmie for
nianagemneit of PRF forIl te following hiscal year.
C= In cot pliance; CD= Compliance after delay; CP= Complied withi partially; NC= Not in Compliance; NYD= Not yet due



Section no. of                                     Covenant                                            Status'                            Comments
credit agr eemlenl   ____________________________________
(b) PRF siall idendfy practical ways for NPP to overcome niajor socio-                 C             None
cultural and economiic constraints. PRF shiall bring togetiher a core
group of specialists in different disciplinies, conmmission researcih by
universities and other research bodies, conduct workshops to bring
logether researchiers and progranumme managers, and adminiister die
progralmie. PRF shall also work with relevant implementitlg agencies to
develop Subprojects to be finaniced out of PAF            ___         _                     ___
Trie Borrower shall establish in NISER, a special Unlit cOiIsisrlirg iruiziallIy       C              Notne
Schicdtile 4     ot rirce prolCssiolial statf tor the day-to- day inanragenier  of PRF.
Part B ( 10)     (icuieral oversiviih of PRF shall be vested in a subco,rmmittce seC IIl) ti(lel-
NCGPD. Specilic researchi proposals shall be reviewed in quarterly
mieetinigs of the PRF Technical Committee, whiich shall be chaired by the
head of NISER's Poptulationl Research Unit, and shiall conisist of, at least
representatives of: la) DPA, PAFA, Nl'C, FMOH's Departnienit of
Planniring, Researclh anid Statistics; (b) a State; and (c) rite Plamied
Parenthood Federation oh Nigeria as a representative of NGOs. lrior
approval of the Association sln It be required (i) for eacih research grants
or contracts of $25,001) euiva lent or imiore, arid (ii) for each researci
grant or contract after research1 grants and conitracts amtouniting int the
aggregate to $1.500,()0.00 equivalent or iniore, or arty other amount
specificie by tire Association. shall have been awarded or conLcIluded.
Agreenments between NISER arid grainees shall require that all supplies
ridi riarlerials pur-chised by granitees shall be plrocured using local
cnIoImpertitive sh oppinrg willi a   Ilillilirllli  rI r11ice p)iC mn0itar1iol(11S arid
selecL(t6m  (11 ItIe lOwest  ioUtoM60r1.
Schcedule 5 (2)1      Payincits out of tile Special Accounits shall be niade exclusively tor                 C              None
eligible expeniditures in accordance with tIre provisions of tilis Scihedille.
Scheditle 5 (3) (a)    Alter tine Associationt has received evidenice satistactory to it iliat tile
Special Accouints have leein duly openiled, withdrawals of thie Auitlorized
Allocation arid subsequent witildrawals to replenliishI a Special Acoiunt
shall be msade as follows:
C= In conmplianice; CD= Comlpliance after delay; CP= Complied rsit/h partiallv; NC= iVot in Comipliance; NYD= Not yet due



Section no. of                                     Covetiant                                            Status'                           Comments
credit agreemesnt            ..
For widlidrawals of the Autihorized Allocation, tie Borrower shall furinishi 
it ihe Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits whichi do           C             None
not exceed the aggregate amouint of ilte Autihorized Allocation. On tie
basis ot sucih requests or reqtuests, the Assouiatiou shall, oD behalf of tle
Borrower, withdraw  from  tle  Credit Account anid  deposit ini tihe
respective Special Account suclh aitoutti or anmounits as the Borrower shall
have reqitiested.
Schedlule: S (3h)    i)       I [or  replenisluetot of' tile  respective  Special  accoullt,  tlhe           C             Replcnishnxienit of the Special Accounit was
Borrower shall furinishi to tihe Association requests for deposits                          stopped in August 1995.
into that Special Accounit at such intervals as tie Association
shall specify
6i       Ilriior to or at tlhe li:e ol each suchi reiucst . ie i o l-rower shiall      C             No te
Itiritishl to ithe Associadiot, (lie tdoctitetiis atiid oilier evideince
required pursua i to paragraph 4 of this Schiedule for the
payment or pay lients in respect of wihich replenishlimletit is
reqiuested. Ott the basis of eacic suchC request. thxe Association
shall, ohi belialf of hlie Borrower, withdraw froml tile Credit
Acctunt andl deposit into the respective Special Accoum  sucih
aniount as die Borrower shall lhave requlested aind as shall have
been sho(vwi by saidi doctitents and osilier evidlenice to have been
paid out of lihe Special Account fur eligible expenditures.
Slhedule 5 143       For each payneitit niade by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts. the               C             Noue
Borrower shiall, at such time as the Associatioti sliall reasonably request.
furnish to teic Associationt suclh documeints anid odler evidciice sliowing
_liat sucih paytieutis wAs niade exclusively fur eligible expetidinttres.
C= In comnpliance; CD= Compliance after delay; CP= Comaplied with partialts'; NC= Not in Comnpliance; NYD= Notyet due



SLniioml no0. of                               Covetituit                                       Status'                         commeinlits
credit agreement                                                                                                                   ..     ._
Scihedtile 5 (6) a                                                                                   C            The Special Account was embargoed froi
If lhe Association shall have determined at any dixie that any paymenii out                   September 1995 to May 1997. The two
of ilie Special Accounits: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an aniouit                   special audits conducted however showed that
not eligible pursuant to paragraphi 2 of this Scliedule; (ii) was not justitied              the Special Account was well operated.
by ihe evidenicc fiirinished to the Associationl, die borrower shall. promiptly
upion notice froml tle Association.: (A) provide sucih addimional evidente
as tie Association niay request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts
(or, if the Association shall so request, refiun to the Associatiotn) all
amouit equal to the amnount of such payment or thie portion thereof noi so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shiall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association iUto the Special Accoumins sball be miadc
untilile Borrower has provided sucii evitlence or miatle sucih deposit or
rehimdtit. as ilhe Case may b.t!
C = In comnpliance, CD= C'omtpliantce alfter delay; CP= Cownplied wit/h paiiiallv; NC= Nai in Compliance; N YD)= Not yet due



79
APPENDIX B
NZGERZA: tATZOVL POPMLATION PROJEC?
Nigeria's Poutulation Policy--Goals. Objectives and Targets/'
Chapter 4 of the population policy gives the following goals,
objectives, and targets:
A.   GOals
The four goals of the population policy are tos (1) iprove living
standards and the quality of life. (2) promote health and welfare,
especially by preveontlon of premature deaths among wothers and children,
(3) reduce the rate of population growth through voluntary fertility
regulation, and (4) achieve more even distribution of population between
urban and rural areas.
B.   Obiectives
Seven objectives have been identified to perait achievement of the
above goals. These objectives are tot (1) promote widespread population
awareness iA the shortest possible time, (2) provide everyone with the
necessary iaformation on the value of llmitiug the size of one's family.
(3) educate youth on population, sexual relationships, and family planning
prior to marriage. (4) provide oasily accessible and affordable family
planning services to all couples, (5) assist childless or sub-fertile
couples in achieving their aspirations, (6) Improve and regularize the
collection and analysis of dographic data, and (7) ehauce conditions in
the rural areas as a means of countering rural-urban tigration.
C.   Tarsets
A number of specific targets were, in turn, spelled out in connection
with impLementation of the polLcys
Tarset                              By .95               Byr Z000
1.   Reduce propoction of woen                 By SO?              By 80S
maring before age 18
2.   Reduce preganascies  mong mothers         By 50S               y 902
undr 18 or over 33 years of age
S.   Reduce proportion of women besr-          By Sol              By 80S
ing more,than 4 children
4.   Make family planning services             To SOX              To 802
ixtracted from  National Policy on Population for Development, Unity,
Progress and Self-ReLianc,;,' Federat RepubLic of Nigeria. 1988.



80
available to women of child
bearing age
S.   Direct a significant proportion                               TSo all
af family life education and
appropriate family planning
services to men
6.  Reduce total fertility rate from               -                 To 4
present level tf between 4 and 7
7.  Reduce the population grawth rate          To 2.5?              To 2.0?
fram its preseLt level of 3.32
8.   Reduce infant mortality                 To 50/1000            To 3011000
9.   Reduce the crude death rate             To 1011000             To 8/1000
10.  Provide fmily life education                                    To all
and family planing infomtion
and services to adolescents
11.  Provide basic menities to rral            To 50?                To 752
cou ities



81
APPENDIX C
Notes On Meetings with PAFA, FMOH and CAs.
1.   A World Bank Team comprising of Ms. Anne Okigbo (Task Manager) and Dr. Pauline Oti
( Consultant) undertook a series of visits and held meeting with selected officials of the
implementing agencies from January 26 - March 6, 1999. The objective of the meetings was to
inform the government and implementing agencies that the Bank was beginning the Completion
Report for the National Population Project and to provide assistance with the preparation of the
Borrower's contribution. We would like to thank Professor Adegbola - Executive Director of
PAFA and Dr. Okungbowa- Director of Community Development and Population Activities -
FMOH for their great assistance in providing required documentation. The following is a
summary of discussions and agreements reached. A list of persons met is attached at Appendix 1.
2.   The collaborating Agencies met expressed appreciation for the opportunities offered
though the national Population Project but however expressed concern over the delays in the
release of funds and the rivalry between the DCDPA and PAFA which was said to have
contributed to the slow pace of implementation.
3.   The mission handed out guidelines on the format for the preparation of an Implementation
completion report which was extensively discussed. The Mission also informed the Director of
PAFA and the Director of DCDPA, FMOH, that the Bank was preparing the completion report
for the project. It was agreed that PAFA would coordinate the effort for the Borrower's
contribution and this would be sent to the Bank by the end of March.
4.   There was consensus among the CAs over the weak performance and the minimal impact
of the project as over half of the planned activities were never carried out. The mission was
informed that the major key constraints were; the project design was to ambitious and complex to
execute, the suspension of the special accounts and political instability.
5    It was agreed that a Borrowers meeting would be held to discuss the draft of the Bank's
implementation completion report and make contributions to this.
List of Persons Met:
1.   Prof. 0. Adegbola, PAFA, Executive Director
2.   Dr. P. Okungbowa, Director, DCDPA-FMOH
3.   Prof. D. Phillips, NISER, Director-General
4.   Prof. 0. Ajakaiye, NISER, Project Manager
5.   M.O. Osagie, National Population Commission, Project Director
6.   Mr. O.E. Adonri, National Population Commission, Project Manager
7.   Mr. B.B. Akinsuke, National Population Commission, Asst. Project Manager
8.   Mr. C. Nwakusor, National Population Commission, Project Accountant
9.   Mr. A.T. Ikomi; National Planning Commission, Project Director
10. Mr. J.O. Olakanmi, National Planning Commission, Project Manager
11. Mrs. A. Taiwo, National Planning Commission, Asst. Project Manager
12. Mrs. S. A Oroge, NERDC, Project Director
13.  Mr. Familusi, NERDC, Project Director
14. Hajia Yola, PICB, Project Director



