Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cß/E S%è 7S)8-OA//
R"ou No. 8527-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
APRIL 2, 1991
Population & Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This docuent has a rasdeed         _iui may be uwed by  up    y In ihe in tomm    od
thr otc(d duts It conte  may ot ehwnue be db_oed            W4o du



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Naira (N)
US$1.00 - 18.00
11.00 - US$0.12
US$1.00 - SDR 0.69 (As of November 30, 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA      -   Collaborating Agency
CBD     -   Community-based Distribution
CPR     -   Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CPS     -   Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
DPA     -  Department of Population Activities
FGN     -   Federal Government of Nigeria
FHD     -   Family Health Division
FMBP    -   Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning
FMOH    -   Federal Ministry of Health
FMOI    -   Federal Ministry of Information
FP      -   Family Planning
HEB     -   Health Education Branch
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -   International Development Association
IEC     -   Information/Education/Communication
IUD     -   Intra-uterine Device
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
LGA     -   Local Government Administration (or Area)
MAMSER  -   Directorate for Social Mobilisation
MCH     -  Maternal and Child Health
MIS     -  Management Information System
NCGPD   -   National Consultative Group on Population for
Development
NERDC   -   Nigerian Educational Research & Development Council
NFS     -   Nigerian Fertility Survey
NGO     -   Non-governmental Organization
NISER   -  Nigerian Institute of Social & Economic Research
NPC     -   National Population Commission
NPP     -   National Population Programme
PAP     -   Population Activities Fund
PAFA    -   Population Activities Fund Agency
PAFMC   -   Population Activities Fund Management Committee
PICB    -   Population Information & Communication Branch
PRF     -   Population Research Fund
PHC     -   Primary Health Care
PPFN    -   Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria
TCRH    -   Tertiary Centre for Reproductive Health
SOE     -   Statement of Expenditure
TFR     -   Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA   -   United Nations Population Fund
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



IoV  OMCIAL USE ONLV
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DEFINITIONS ...................... **...** ....****................ ... iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................*****,***** ** * vi
I.   INTRODUCTION AND BACXGRORUND  ..................                     1
S$. POPULATION IN NIGERIAt  STATUS, ISSUES, AND PROPOSED SOLUTIONS
A. Population and Development in Nigeria ........................  l
S. Current Population Activities in Nigeria .. ................  4
C. The Emerging National Population Programme ...................  6
D. Current IssueslConstraints In Population & Possible Solutions. 11
S. The Bank Group's Strategy for Population in Nigeria .....    . 14
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives ............................. 15
B. Project Description ...# *.....   ........ . ........... .      ......... 16
C. Project Costs and Financing  .....    .................  .. . ..... 25
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal, appraisal, and post-
appraisal missions to Nigeria in March 1989, August-September 1989, and
January-February 1990. The missions consisted of D. Radel*** (senior
population and health specialist, mission leader), J. Barrientos* (project
adviser), E. Boohene* (senior population specialist), E. Browm*
(demographer), R. Denton** (senior project economist), M. Heppell* (public
sector management specialist, consultant), M. Miatudila*** (public health
specialist), K. Mojidi** (population, health, and nutrition specialist,
Resident Mission, Lagos), R. Worrall** (information/education/
commiunication, consultant), and F. Sai** (senior population adviser), who
also served as lead advisor for the operation. D. Radel took the lead in
preparing the report with assistance in project costing from L. Domingo, in
sectoral background analysis from S. Cochrane, and in demographic
projections from P. Stephens. E. Amatayakul, S. Sekaren, A. Keck, and D.
Tran assisted in processing the report. J. de Merode and S. Lim are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the
operation. The IDA Project Team would like to dedicate this Staff
Appraisal Report to the memory of Dr. Kandiah Kanagaratnam, whose untimely
death occurred in May 1990. The Nigerian program, along with Kenya's, was
the last major national population program to receive professional advice
from Dr. Kanagaratnam during his long and distinguished career. This
project benefited notably from his guidance, especially during
identification and preparation.
*One mission only           **Two missions            ***All three missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation ................................ 27
B. Project Organization and Management .......................... 28
Operation of the Population Activities Fund ........**a** 28
Institutional Arrangements for Project Management ....... 32
Project Monitoring and Reporting ................34
C. Procurement ....;6
D. Disbursements .....40
T. Accounts and Audits                                              42
V.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits ...te..............oo.......o.43
B. Risks and Safeguards                .............44
Vlo AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreemente Reached ........................................... 46
B. Conditions 4     7..... *...............           ......... ,. 47
C. Recommendation                                                   48
ANNEXES
2-1  Comparative Population Indicators for Nigeria and
Selected Countries ......................o.............49
2-2  Projections of Nigeria's Population under Three
Fertility Decline Scenarios .................................           50
2-3  Population Factors and National Development ....................... 53
2-4  Strategies for Implementation of the Population Policy ............ 54
2-5  Nigeria's Population Policy--Goals, Objectives, and Targets ....... 62
2-6  CPRs and Anaual Program Costs, by Year, under
Different Assumptions .***.......  ..          .....             ..... 64
2-7 Membership of the National Consultative Group on Population for
Development .........................................66
2-8  A Possible Framework for Development of Population Monitoring,
Evaluation, and Research Activities ...........68
3-1 National Population Progravae:  Issues, Government's Response, and
Project Actions ....71
3-2  Provisional List of Types of Activities, Organized by Strategy,
that Would Be Eligible for PAP Funding ..............75
3-3  Comparative Profiles of Phase I Subprojects 8...0.......so0
3-4  Description of Subproject 1: Integration of Family Planning into
Maternal and Child Health ......................................... 82
3-5 Description of Subproject 2: Promotion of Family Planning through
Health Education ..1..................
3-6  Description of Subproject 3s Tertiary Centres for
Reproductive Health ..1............. *......... *.. ..........*
3-7  Description of Subproject 4: Public Enlightenment on Population ... 134
3-8  Description of Subproject 5: Population/Family Life Education
through Primary Schools .       1................. 4....



- iii -
3-9  Description of Subproject 6s Monitoring of the National population
Programie Impact through a Sentinel Survev System ................. 1S59
3-10 Description of Subproject 7: Integration of Population Into
Planning and Budgeting ............................................170
3-11 Summary Cost Estimates by Subproject and Type of Expenditure ...... 180
3-12 Typology of Collaborating Agencies, Anticipated Size of Phase II
Subprojects, and Proposed Cost Sharing Percentages ..............181
4-1 Sample Guidelines for Preparation of Subproject Proposals (By
States and LGAs) ..................................................182
4-2  Description of the Two-Phase Subproject Appraisal Process ......... 188
4-3  Project Time Frame .... ......................................... 190
4-4 Three Organigramst Operation of PAP, Structure of PAPA,
and Structure of DPA ................................................. 191
4-5  Basic Steps and Responsibilities in PAY Subproject Processing ..... 194
4-6  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ............................... 198
6-1  Agreed Supervision Plan ................................. ......... 199
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT PILE ........................ ........ 205



- iv -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
Age Specific Fertility Rates   The number of live births In a given year to
women in a given age group per 1,000 woman
in that age group.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate: The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using (or whose
husbands are using) any form of
contraception.
Couple-Year of Protections      An index that sums and compares the
protection offered by different
contraceptive methods In terms of protection
time conferred by each method. In its
refined form (standard couple-year of
protection). the index takes into account
the age distribution of acceptors, the
physiological state of women at the time of
acceptance (i.e., overlap of contraceptive
use with postpartum amenorrhea),
effectiveness of any given method, and the
fertility level of the group or country
under analysis.
Crude Birth Rates               The number of births in a given year per
1,000 population as of the middle of that
year.
Crude Death Rates               The number of deaths in a given year per
1,000 population as of the middle of that
year.
Infant Mortality Rates          The number of deaths of infants under one
year old In a given year per 1,000 live
births in that year.
Net Reproduction Rates          The average number of daughters that would
be born to a woman if during her lifetime
she were to conform to the age specific
fertility and mortality rates of a given
year.
Rate of Population Growths      The rate at which a population is increasing
In a given year due to natural increase
(representing the surplus of births over
deaths) and net migration, expressed as a



percentage of the populatioa at the
beginning of that year.
Total Fertility Rates           The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
during her child-bearing years she were to
bear children at each age in accord with
prevailing age specific fertility rates.



- vi e
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMAARY
Borrowers      Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries: Federal Ministry of Health (PM0H)- collaborating agencies
(CAs) comprising federal, state, and local government
bodies, universities, and non-governmental organizations
(NOs0); and the Nigerian Institute of Social & Economic
Research (NISER).
Amounts        SDR 54.2 million (US$78.5 million equivalent).
Terms:         Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On lending
Terms:         About 83? of the proceeds of the Credit will be made
available by the Borrower to the Population Activities Fund
(PAF). In turn, grants would be made from PAF to qualified
CAs on the basis of subproject agreements.
Project
Description:   The overall objectives of the project are to strengthen the
institutional framework and expand the experiential basis
for undertaking a large-scale, intersectoral National
Population Programme (NPP) over the coming decades. Based
on Nigeria's recently approved comprehensive National
Population Policy, NPP is being developed under the
leadership of the Department of Population Activities (DPA),
which was established in P1OH in 1988. The project will
assist Government in gradually evolving an effective
strategy for the program by developing a mechanism for
funding and evaluating subprojects that are designed and
Implemented by a number of CAs in the public and private
sectors. The project will consist of three basic elements.
The first is the Population Activities Fund (PAP), which
will provide grants to qualified CAs for subprojects they
have prepared. Subprojects will fit within a rolling three-
year work plan for NPP; detailed guidelines for subproject
content are under preparation. Many of the subprojects will
focus on increasing family planning (FP) practice through
provision of services and intensive information/education/
communication tIEC). Other subprojects will develop
leadership comlitment to NPP or help prepare CAs to provide
support functions for NPP in planning, coordination,
training, monitoring, evaluation, or research. It is
anticipated that PAP will attract funds from other donors.
Seven subprojects (Phase I Subprojects), utilizing about 512



- vii *
of the initial allocation for PAY, have already been jointly
appraised by IDA and DPA. Second, the project will help
develop a small PAP Agency (PAPA) that will manage PAF in
cooperation with DPA. Jointly PAPA and DPA will develop the
capacity to assist CAs with preparation of additional
subprojects (Phase II Subprojects) and to appraise and
supervise them. The third elemeat of the project is
designed to stimulate irtensive analysis of socio-cultural
constraints to fertility reduction, review relevant
experiences from other countries, and design innovative
interventions for adoption by implementing CAs. It will
take the form of support for the establishment and
implementation of the first stage of the Population Research
Fund (PRF). PRF would be manag.d by KISER with guidance
from several relevant groups including DPA and the National
Population Commission (NPC). which is responsible for the
census and demographic surveys.
Economlc Rate
of Returns     Not applicable.
Benefits
and Riskst     The principal benefits of th6 project will be development of
strong institutional underpinnings for NPP, generation of
mch stronger support for NPP across the society, and
identification of effective approaches for expansion of NPP.
Vhile it will undoubtedly lead to higher rates of
contraceptive prevalence and hence will have an Impact on
fertility in the areas covered, this first project is highly
unlikely to have any measurable impact on national
population growth. (Even its impact on fertility will be
dampened by several secular trends leading to higher
fertility such as reduced breastfeeding and declines in
traditional birth spacing practices.) Moreover, in spite of
the strong commitment at top levels, NPP, as with any new
program dependent upon the active participation of tens of
millions of individuals, especially in the face of strong
socio-cultural counterpressures, is inherently risky. Heavy
emphasis on IEC and research are intended to reduce this
overall risk. Other risks are (a) the limited capacity of
PAFA and DPA to manage PA1, which will be strengthened
through increased staffing at middle levels, heavy reliance
on consultants, detailed annual reviews with IDA, and
thorough management audits$ (b) the profound political
changes coming to Nigeria in 1992, which may be less
disruptive if NPP is adequately institutionalized; and (c)
the difficulties for Government to provide adequate
budgetary support for a new program, which will be mitigated
by IDA assuming a higher than normal percentage of project
costs and by inclusion of a subproject to develop long-term
commitment to NPP among planning and budgeting agencies at
Federal and state levels.



- viii -
Summary of Proiect Costs and FinancinA
Estimated Proiect Costs$
Local         Foreign            Total
----------(US$ millions)----------
1. Phase I Subprojects from PAF         28.5           11.2               39.7
2. Phase II SubproJects from PAY        27.3*          10.7*              38.0
3. Development of PAPA to Manage PAF    2.4             1.5                3.9
4. Strengthenirg of DPA to Support PAF  5.4             2.6                8.0
5. Subcoutracts from and Operation
of PRP                                3.a            0.2                4.0
Total Proiect Costs                  67.4           26.2              93.6
*Assumed split between local and foreign costs based on Phase I
Subprojects.
Above estimates include taxes and duties estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$2.3 million.
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total      Percent
Ö ------- (US mIllions)-------Ö
Government Agencies       15.0          -           15.0        16.0
NGO                      0.1          -            0.1         0.1
IDA                       52.3         26.2         78.5        83.9
Total                     67.4         26.2         93.6       100.0
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1992  1993   1994    1995    1996    1997      1998   1999
---ae--a- --       Ö----- -(US $ millions) --  a----------------
Annual        3.5    7.1    8.7    15.8    14.0    11.7       12.6    5.1
Cumulative    3.5   10.6   19.3    35.1    49.1    60.8       73.4   78.5
AF4PB
April 1991



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATION"L POPULATION PJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.01      Rapid population growth is having a profound impact on Nigeria
and represents a major drag on development. If the current annual growth
rate of 3.12 were to continue, Nigeria's population, presently estimated at
117 million, would double in about 22 years. In view of the likely
constrained growth in GNP and this rate of population growth, per capita
incoma could be expected to grow by little more than 12 annually.  Equally
significant is the impact on social welfare of high fertility, e.g., infant
mortality has been found in Nigeria to be about 40X higher when births are
less than three years apart. In recognition of the many negative
consequences of rapid population growth and with assistance from the Bank,
the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), the Federal Government of Nigeria
(1GN) formulated a comprehensive population policy and in April 1989
launched the National Population Programme (NPP). To plan and coordinate
NPP, Government has established the Department of Population Activities
(DPA) in the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH).
1.02      The challenge now is to implement activitiU  Jhat will help
achieve Goverment's ambitious target of reducing the population growth
rate to 2.02 by the year 2000. 'While scattered family planning (FP)
activities have been underway for some years, less than 52 of married
couples of child bearing age are using modern contraceptives. If the
target were to be achieved, contraceptive use must exceed 202 within five
years, requiring an estimated expenditure of over US$800 million. While an
investment this large cannot be absorbed at present since appropriate
strategies and sufficient commitment are only gradually emerging, more
resources can be used now than the US$80 million currently committed to NPP
by USAID and UNFPA over five years. Major constraints to effective
implementation include strong cultural supports for large families,
tremendous diversity socially and geographically, limitations in the
fledgling planning and coordinating body (DPA), inadequate arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation, little commitment to use non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in the program, and inadequate donor coordination. An
approach that permits a flexible, demand-driven response to these
constraints is proposed for financing through this National Population
Project.
II. POPULATION IN NIGERIAs  STATUS, ISSUES, AND PROPOSED SOLUTIONS
A. Population and Development in Nigeria
2.01      Nigeria's demographic features.  Many of Nigeria's demographic
data are not particularly reliable due to the absence of an acceptable
census for over two decades. Nonetheless, there is general agreement on
some of the basic facts. Nigeria's mid-1990 population is estimated at 117
million, making it by far the largest country in Africa with about one-
quarter of the population of the continent south of the Sahara. The
estimated crude birth rate is 47 per 1,000 population; the crude death



- 2 -
rate, 15 per 1,000. The death rate has declined in recent decades, having
13 per 1,000 in the mid-1960s, whereas the birth rate has remained
more or less stable. By all measures, Nigeria's fertility is high. Based
on the findings of the Nigeria Fertility Survey (NFS), for instance, the
estimated total fertility rate (TnF) for 1981-82 ase 6.3. The Bank's
estimate for 1988 is 6.6, which compares with 5.6 for all low income
countries (excluding China and India), although It is similar to the rates
for other Western Africa countries (e.g., neighboring Cameroon's is 6.5).
Nigeria's high fertility arises from the fact that marriage is early,
almost universal, and re-entered rapidly following marital disruption.
While about 752 of a Nigerian woman's reproductive life is spent in
mars,age, the average for a group of ten sub-Saharan countries that
participated in the World Fertility Survey is 672 and for North Africa,
62Z. The average women in Nigeria marries at age 18, nearly a year earlier
than her counterparts in Kenya and Ghana. Surveys in northern Nigeria
consistently show that over 402 of girls are married before they turn 15.
In addition, Nigeria is a highly polygamous country, even among Christian
groups. Some key population-related indicators for Nigeria and, for
comparative purposes, selected other African countries, as well as
countries with similar per capita incomes, are presented in Annex 2-1.
2.02      Population growth. Nigeria's population grow rate is high and
had been increasing in recent decades although it appears to have leveled
off during the 19809. The estimated current rate is 3.12 per annum, which
results in a doubling of the population in about 22 years. This compares
with 2.52 per annum during the period 1965-73 and 2.72 during 1973-83.
Based on the Bank Group's standard population projection, Nigeria's
estimated population by the year 2000 will be 159 million and fifty yearc
later, 397 million, by which time Nigeria would be one of the four or so
largest countries in the world. Based on three different assumptions about
fertility decline, projections of Nigeria's total population for every five
years until 2030 have been prepared by the Bank Group. For instance, under
the Bank's standard projection, which assumes the T?f will fall to 5.6 by
the year 2000, the total population in 2030 would be 331 million. With a
slower decline in fertility (net reproduction rate of 1 not achieved until
2070, instead of by 2040), the total population would be 342 higher or 444
million by 2030. And with a rapid decline in fertility (the TFR reaches
4.0 by the year 2000, which the FGN has set as its target (para. 2.111),
then the total population by the year 2030 would be 71 mil ion lower than
In the case of the Bank's standard projection and 184 million lower than in
the case of the slow fertility decline scenario. For more details on these
three scenarios, see Annex 2-2.
2.03      Developmental and economic impact of  rid pogulation growth.
Rapid population growth and high fertility have negative consequences at
the level of the individual, the household, and society as a whole.
Assuming today's conditions continue, rapid population growth in Nigeria
will have negative consequences at the aggregate level In a number of
sectors, Including agriculture, wood resources, employment, education,
health, and housing. A comparative analysis of the developmental impact of
population growth in Nigeria has been prepared by The Futures Group using
two assumptions about fertility. Under one projection, fertility is
assumed to remain basically at the present level, and under the other,



-3-
fertility declines slowly to reach a TFR of 3.0 by 2005 (which is somewhat
more optimistic even than Government's target of a TiP of 4.0 by 2000).
This analysis shows substantial effects from lowered fertility by 2000 and
much more dramatic effects by 2015 (a fuller summary is given in Annex 2-
3).  For example, in 2000 the annual deficit *n staple foods  ould be 11
million tons under the assumption of constant fertility versus 8.2 million
with lowered fertility. In cereal products the difference in fertility
rates would mean the difference between a 7 million ton deficit and self-
sufficiency by 2015. The demand for fuelwood would be 93 million cubic
meters per year versus 84 in 2000, and 145 versus 99 in 2015. Similarly,
there would be considerably higher demands on social services if fertility
remains unchanged. The child dependence ratio would be 124 (i.e., 1.24
children per adult) versus 97 by 2000, while primary school enrollments
would be 27.3 million versus 23.5 million. By 2015, the contrast would be
even greaters 48.2 million primary school places required versus 23.5
million. With regard to health, the population at highest risk (women of
childbearing age and children under five) would be 68.2 million versus 57.8
million in 2000, and 117 million versus 78 million fifteen years later.
Beyond these rough quantifications of potential impact are the more subtle
effects of population growth on such things as youth unemployment, quality
of child care, and environmental degradation. While some positive rate of
growth may be desirable, clearly the rate of growth being experienced by
Nigeria, as these data show, allows little opportunity to choose the path
of development. There is a constant need to respond to growing numbers.
2.04      The health and welfare impact of hiih fertility.  At the family
level, perhaps the greatest effect of high fertility is on the health of
mothers and children. Worldwide, data show that the risk to mothers and
their children increases, sometimes drastically, under four conditions:
when pregnancies occur before age 18, after age 35, less than about three
years apart, or after about the fourth birth. While specific data from
Nigeria on such effects are limited, the NFS shows, for instance, that
infant mortality is about 402 higher when births are less than three years
apart, and it is about 20? higher when mothers are under 20 years of age
compared to those who are 20 to 29. Hospital records and several small
surveys suggest that between 200 and 600 women die from conditions
associated with child birth for every 100,000 deliveries, a rate that is
100 to 500 times those that obtain in developed countries. High fertility
is a major contributing factor to this high maternal mortality; for
instance at the university hospital in Benin City, women having their fifth
or subsequent delivery account for 552 of maternal deaths but only 17S of
all deliveries.
2.05      Determinants of fertility in Nigeria.  A number of factors
determine the level of fertility in a society, some working directly and
others indirectly. Among the determinants of fertility are patterns of
marriage, which, as noted above (para. 2.01), is nearly universal and
frequently polygamous in Nigerias contraceptive practice, which is still
quite low (para. 2.06); breastfeeding; abstinence; education; and
urbanization. While the patterns of marriage and contraceptive use keep
fertility high in Nigeria, extensive breastfeeding prevents it from being
even higher. Fertility is only about 70? of what it would be if there were
no breastfeeding. The mean duration of breastfeeding for women in the NFS



was 19.3 months compared with 17.7 for the 10 sub-Saharan African countries
in the World Fertility Survey. It is probable that with modernization this
interval vill shorten and fertility will rise. Similarly, sexual
abstinence plays an important role in Nigeria, with post-partum abstinence
lasting, on the average, over a year. Educational levels usually have a
major impact on fertility. For women with no education, the TFR In Nigeria
is slightly above that in Latin America, substantially below that in the
Middle East, and above those in Asia and North Africa. Fertility among
Nigerian women with some primary education, however, is much higher than
the average for any other region. Indeed, only for Nigerian women with
seven or more years of education does fertility show substantial declines,
but even then, it is almost one child greater than among similar women in
Asia and Latin America. Over time fertility will probably also decline for
those with only primary schooling, but in the short term, the abandonment
of traditional practices, such as breastfeeding and prolonged abstinence,
is generally not compensated for by the uptake of contraception. In
Nigeria, the urban-rural differences in fertility are more or less the
opposite of whet is normally expected; in fact they are unlike those of any
other country for which similar data are available. In Nigeria's case,
major urban areas have the highest fertilitys a T?R in 1981182 of 6.7.
Other urban areas had a TPR of 5.9, while rural areas were in between with
6.4. Again, the explanation probably is the abandonment of traditional
practices. Thus Nigeria shows a pattern of high fertility preferences that
decline at best only slightly with education and urban residence.
B. Current Population Activities in NiReria
2.06      Demand for family planning (NP).  Actual fertility in Nigeria is
high and so are family size desires. Rnowledge about and practice of FP Is
correspondingly low. The average desired family size among all women is
8.4 children. Only among women who have completed primary school and among
those with secondary and higher education are there lower fertility
preferences--7.7 and 6.2 children respectively. These levels are higher
than average for Sub-Saharan Africa. In 1981-82 the NFS found that only
34Z of Nigerian women had heard of any modern contraceptive method compared
with 5OS in the average Sub-Saharan country, 851 in Asia, 90t In Niorth
Africa, and 952 in Latin America. A subsequent study involving just one
state, Ondo in southern Nigeria, found that by 1987 about half of the women
knew of a modern method. In 1981/82 of those women who knew of the pill,
only one-quarter knew an actual source of supply: according to the Ondo
survey five years later about half of the women familiar with the pill knew
a source for it. In part, because of this lack of knowledge, very few
women express any intention of ever using contraception, with little urban-
rural differential in potential demand and only modest differences by
education and across regions. Even many women who indicate they do not
wish to become pregnant in the near future express no intention of
practicing FP. In Ondo the major reason for non-use is health concerns
(272), followed by lack of knowledge or access to a source (16S).
Opposition to PP or opposition by spouse are expressed by 81 and 5X
respectively. The estimated contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) for
Nigeria in 1987 was about 62, nearly one-third of which was accounted for
by abstinence. Just over half of the users (542) chose effective modern
methods: pills, injectables, or intrauterine devices (IUDs). Use of



- 5 .
condoms was very low l--less than one out of every two hundred married
couples--and female sterilization was even less coimon.  While the demand
for contraceptive services is still low in Nigeria, there is evidence that
it is growing, in part as a consequence of deteriorating economic
circumstances. One indicator in this regard is the apparent increase in
induced abortions, with, for instance, over half of the maternal deaths in
Lagos University Teaching Hospital being attributed to complications
arising from illegal abortions.
2.07      Status of PP service delivery.  VP services are available from a
number of public sector facilities, especially hospitals and larger health
centers, from clinics operated by the Planned Parenthood Federation of
Nigeria (PPFN), and from the private sector--private practitionert,
pharmacies, and drug vendors. Many of these, especially those in the
public sector, have been initiated within the past few years parallel with
the preparation of a national population policy (para. 2.10). They have
built on the pioneering work of the PPFN and have been almost entirely
funded from outside sources, especially USAID (para. 2.09). Since 1987
FMOH has been gathering data on PP users served through the public sector.
These data show that about 311,000 new acceptors in 1988, an increase of
about 62 over 1987, with about 8OZ of the 1,000 known service outlets
reporting.
2.08      Other on-going populaticn activities.  Beyond the provision of
FP services, a number of other population activities are underway in
Nigeria. One of the longest standing of these, which was started in 1981,
is the development of a national in-school population education program by
the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC). To date
it has developed resource materials and teaching guides for use in
secondary schools and launched pilot tests in cooperation with a number of
states. A growing number of PP informationleducationcommunication (IEC)
campaigns involving mass media have been undertaken by state and Federal
television and radio organizations, generally with technical and financial
assistance from Johns Hopkins University and with funding from USAID.
Several relevant data collection activities have also been undertaken,
including the NFS in 1981/82, which has been quoted extensively above.
These have largely been carried out under the aegis of the National
Population Commission (NPC), which is responsible for the collection and
analysis of population data, including conduct of the national census. NPC
is actively preparing for a new census to be conducted in October 1991.
(Official population estimates are still based on the 1963 census since the
results of the last census in 1973 were rejected).
2.09      Present donor support for population.  To date, the major
sources of external financing for population have been USAID and UNFPA.
Smaller amounts have been provided by the International Planned Parenthood
Federation, which assists the PPFN; the European Economic Community, which
1 In the last two or three years, however, condom use seems to have
increased rapidly, although principally outside of marriage for prevention
of sexually transmitted diseases, presumably as the result of growing
publicity about AIDS.



- 6 -
has included modest support for VP as part of its assistance in health; and
the Ford Foundation. By far the most assistance in the field has come from
USAID, which currently is supporting the five-year Nigerian Family Health
Services Project with grant financing totalling about US$67 million. Of
this, about US$17 million is for contraceptive supplies and the other US$50
million covers four main componentst IEC, private sector service delivery,
public sector service delivery, and policy implementation. The objective
of the USAID support is to increase the use of modern contraception from
the present level of about 41 of married couples to 122 by 1992. The USAID
support is not provided directly to Government, but is channelled through
American not-for-profit organizations. The second largest source of funds
has been UNFPA, which plans to devote up to US$13 million to population
assistance during its current five-year program. Provisionally this grant
financing is allocated as follows: (a) support to nationwide PP activities
in the context of primary health care (PHC)--US$3.5 million; (b) population
IEC--USS2.5 million; (c) basic data collection and analysis--US$0.5 million
for vital registration and up to US$4.5 million for the 1991 census
depending upon the availability of funds; (d) population policy
formulation--US$l million; and (e) women, population, and development--US$l
million. Together, USAID and UNFPA will be providing a maximum of US$80
million over the next five years. On the basis of the Bank Group's
experience, however, US$300 to 550 million would be required to reach the
targeted user rate of 1ZZ proposed by USAID. This is based on the finding
that it costs about US$50 per contraceptive user per year during the early
stages of a national population program. (The even faster decline implied
by PGN's population policy (para. 2.11] would require over US$800 million
during that period and considerably more by the end of the century.) The
basic question, of course, is whether funding of this magnitude, even if it
were available, could be absorbed at this early stage of the program.
Beyond that is the perhaps even more fundamental issue of whether
expenditures of any magnitude would generate that level of response so
quickly in view of the extremely strong social and cultural pressures for
large families (para. 2.17). Nonetheless, some clear-cut gaps can be
identified along with appropriate agencies interested in filling them.
Among these gaps are insufficient integration of PP into mainstream PHC
efforts with special reference to provision of FP-related equipment and
simple transport to complement training funded by USAID, inadequate
contraceptive back-up services and training related to management of side
effects and other aspects of reproductive health through hospitals, very
limited involvement of health education and the information sector in
population IEC, the need to expand efforts in population education building
on support from UNFPA for a pilot program, and no solid effort to integrate
population considerations into the planning and budgeting processes.
C. The Emerging National Population Programme (NPP)
2.10      Government's population policy.  In February 1988, after a
three-year developmental process, Nigeria's National Policy on Population
for Development, Unity, Progress and Self-Reliance was approved by the
highest authority in the country, the Armed Forces Ruling Council. Formal
launch of the policy and the NPP, which is based on the policy, occurred in
April 1989. Although previous development plans refer to the adverse
implications of population growth for development, explicit action by



7-
Government in response to these concerns is rather recent. Beginning with
the African Regional Population Conference in 1984, followed by the
International Population Conference later the same year, Nigeria strongly
endorsed international action plans for dealing with population issues. In
early 1985, Government assigned leadership in developing a policy for
Nigeria to the Federal Ministry of Health (11n0), which actively involved
other ministries and several universities and non-governmeatal
organizations (NGOs) in its preparation. A number of workshops and
seminars, including discussions of the World Bank's 1984 World Development
Report, were held during this period to bring about better understanding of
population issues in the Nigerian context and to build a consensus for the
emerging national policy. During the course of this process, special
computerized presentations on population and development were made to all
of the state governors and their cabinets and to the Federal Council of
Ministers. Technical and financial support for the policy development
process was provided by the Bank Group, UNFPA, and USAID. The policy is a
model of its kind and has been widely endorsed by the international
community, although there is some concern about the highly unrealistic
targets and the total neglect of their financial implications (para. 2.11).
The document itself is in eight sections. The first three describe the
magnitude of the population problem, discuss its implications, and set out
the principles of voluntarism and social responsibility upon which the
policy is based. The docurtut then identifies the goals of the policy (see
para. 2.11) and the broad strategies necessary to achieve them. As part of
the overall goal of improviug the quality of life, the policy seeks to
bring about continued decline in the mortality of mothers and children,
reduce fertility, and slow the rapid rate of migration into the cities.
The increased provision of FP services is seen as vital to achievement of
these goals. The policy also stresses the importance of creating an
envirom'ent favorable to fertility reduction through measures to improve
the status of women, encourage later marriage age for both men and women,
provide educational programs for young people, and develop a wide range of
IEC activities. It also emphasizes the need for demographic data for both
population and development planning. Finally it outlines an institutional
framework for planning, coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating the NPP
(para. 2.15). The policy concludes with a call for strong leadership and
for the support of all those who influence public opinion. (Excerpts from
the policy focussed on its implementation are given in Annex 2-4.)
2.11      Government's population targets.  One of the special features of
Nigeria's population policy is a series of quantitative targets, although
achievement of them in the time frame given will be extremely difficult and
very expensive. This degree of explicitness with regard to the targets is
a tribute to FGN, for quantitative targets have generally been omitted from
the early versions of national population policies, especially in Africa,
due to political sensitivities. For many of the targets, two numbers are
givens one for 1995 and another for the year 2000. Among the 11 targets
are ones relating to the health aspects of reproduction, the determinants
of fertility, program targets, and reductions in fertility and population
growth. For instance, the policy calls for the reduction of the proportion
of women marrying before age 18 and of the proportion bearing more than
four children by, in both cases, 502 by 1995 and 80X by the year 2000. It
also calls for infant mortality (now around 100 per 1,000 live births) to



- 8 -
decline to 50 per 1,000 by 1995 and 30 by 2000. Among program variables,
the policy sets coverage targets for family planning services of 502 of
women of reproductive age by 1995 and 80 by 2000. From the point of view
of population change, the two most fundamental targets, however, are those
calling for the TFR (now around 6.7) to be cut to 4 by 2000 and for the
rate of population growth (now around 3.12) to fall to 2.5Z by 1995 and
2.0 by 2000. (All 11 targets, as well as the goals and objectives on
which they are based, are outlined in Annex 2-5.) A serious caution must
be raised about these targets, however. From experience elsewhere, even
under the much more favorable socio-cultural circumstances of East Asia,
most of them appear extremely ambitious to the point, indeed, of being
unrealistic within the time frame set. (According to the Bank's standard
projection, which is based on a combination of current data for Nigeria and
the experience of other countries, including ones with active population
programs, a TFR of 4.0 and a growth rate of 2.52 would require about 15-20
years to achieve.) It would be highly unfortunate if Nigeria's inability
to come even close to achieving most of its population targets were to
result in a loss of interest on the part of the Government and external
agencies and a collapse in the morale of program staff and managers.
Assuming even that there were few socio-cultural constraints to a rapid
uptake in contraceptive practice, the financial cost of reaching
Government's targets would be enormous--far beyond the level of financing
that Government and the external community are likely to be willing to
invest in a new and untried program. Calculations by the Bank Group
indicate that a contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of nearly 5O0 would be
required to achieve a TFR of 4 by 2000 and that the average annual
incremental cost2 of achieving this would be on the order of US$225 million
(annual cost figures, under different assumptions, are given in Annex 2-6).
This figure looks less daunting when compared with the projected GNP,
representing as it does less than 0.5Z of GNP. In conclusion, it would
have been valuable for the policy to address the likely costs of its
implementation, which, in turn, might have resulted in reconsideration of
some of the targets. On the other hand, a coamendable step has been taken
by Nigeria in setting such a broad array of concrete targets for itself.
2.12      The emerging implementation strategy for NPP.  The strategic
framework for the implementation of the NPP has been spelled out in the
policy document (Annex 2-4). Eight different areas have been identified
for action: (a) provision of PP services, including associated
information, through various public and private sector outlets; (b)
strengthening of maternal and child health services, including active
promotion of breast feeding; lc) promotion of responsible parenthood among
men; (d) promotion of improved economic and social status for women,
including expansion in women's education; (e) development of educational
and service delivery programs aimed at meeting the special needs of youth
and to prepare them for responsible parenthood; (f) expansion of the
2 Based on experiences of other national population programs, this
estimate assumes an average annual cost of US$50 per user at the beginning
of the program, which is then gradually reduced to an average annual cost
of US$25 per user by the year 2000. There is no reason to expect that
average costs in Nigeria would be markedly lower than these.



9
outlets and range of information on population matters for various
audiences ranging from policy mAkers and professionals to the general
public; (g) greater emphasis in overall development efforts to Improve
condi'tons in rural areas in order to reduce the motivation to migrate to
cities; and (h) greatly expanded efforts in research and data collection,
analysis, dissemination, and utilization. These eight clusters of
strategies represent nearly all of the scope and depth of a mature national
population program. The challenge that is still facing the management of
the fledgling NPP is what activities to emphasize initially from among this
array of possible actions and what bodies should be mobilized to implement
these priorities. To some extent the priorities have already been defined
by the directions taken by the funding agencies based on broad
international experience (e.g., USAID's very strong emphasis on PP service
delivery and associated IEC). There is urgent need, however, for the
Government and its advisers to reconfirm or modify these priorities as a
necessary step toward developing Nigerian 'ownership' and commitment to
NPP. Bank Group missions have stressed this need and in March 1989
facilitated meetings involving the main coordinating body for the program
(see para. 2.15) and a number of interested agencies at the Federal level.
Further work on developing a consensus statement occurred in June 1989,
when a large Nigerian delegation participated in an EDI-UNFPA workshop on
"Family Planning Program Design and Management'. Subsequently designated
the Population Working Group and working under the chairmanship of FMOH,
this group has prepared a rolling three-year work plan for NPP.   This work
plan is critical for defining the boundaries for the proposed HDA financing
under the National Population Project (para. 3.03). lhile an important
step forward, the work plan still needs clear prioritization of the vast
number of activities listed there.
2.13      Role of the public sector in NPP.  Government's position, at
this stage of the evolution of the NPP, is that the lead role in population
matters should be taken by the health sector. Hence the coordinating body
for the program has been placed in the FMOH (para. 2.15). Other Federal
bodies are seen as active partners, however, including the Federal Ministry
of Information (FMOI), NERDC on behalf of the education sector, the Federal
Ministry of Budget and Planning (PMBP), and the Directorate for Social
Mobilization (MAMSER), as well as various Government-owned media outlets
such as the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria and the Nigerian
Television Authority. A special role has been assigned to NPC, and that is
the evaluation of the overall demographic impact of NPP through surveys,
vital registration, and other methods. At the state level, leadership for
the program is similarly seen as resting with the state ministries of
health, but again other bodies such as ministries of information and of
education are viewed as major partners, along with state-owned media.
Finally, the local level initiative is to be taken by the health
departments of local government administrations (LGAs), which are
responsible for delivery of primary health care (PHC), including FP. More
explicit responsibilities for the above bodies are being defined during the
course of the refinement of the three-year work plan (para. 2.12). A
broader array of government agencies, including social services and
agriculture, will undoubtedly become involved over time.



- 10 -
2.14      Role of the grivate sector in NPP.  The population policy
recognizes the potential contributions of the private sector--NGOs,
commercial firms, and the community itself--but cautions that such bodies
need guidance to ensure that their efforts reflect national priorities.
Indeed, the initial leadership in population, especially with regard to
delivery of PP services, came from the private sector, specifically the
PPFN. Support from USAID has placed strong emphasis on mobilization of the
private sector, including inclusion of PP services -. the health services
provided by industrial establishments, plantations, etc. In addition,
USAID has spearheaded a social marketing scheme to distribute non-
prescription contraceptives through commercial channels. As has occurred
in otber national programs when Government has become much more actively
involved, pioneering groups, such as the PPFN, find they need to redefine
their roles. This is underway with PPPN placing greater emphasis on
devising effective means for reaching special target groups such as men and
out-of-school youth and for mobilizing other NGOs to support the population
effort.
2.15.     Coordinating mechanisms for NPP.  The policy calls for the
establishment of several bodies to help plan and coordinate NPP, with the
focal point being an office at the national level in FNOH.  Accordingly  in
mid-1988 PMOH established the Department of Population Activities (DPA)1.
To staff DPA initially, the director and some six other staff were
transferred from other PMO0 departments; one or two, from other government
agencies. By early 1990, 38 professional staff were in place with four
more expected to assume posts. Almost all recruitment has been at
relatively junior levels. Only one of the four deputy directors planned
had been approved by the Establishments Department, and similarly only one
of the six assistant directors. An additional assistant director post was
being filled by a local consultant, which arrangement may need to be used
considerably more in the short and medium term in view of the serious gaps
in senior level staff. Parallel coordinating bodies are called for at the
state level, but have yet to be established. Most officials associated
with the program assume that the state-level coordinating offices will also
be based in health ministries, but at least one state, Imo, is considering
placing this function in the Governor's Office to give it more visibility
and authority. In spite of the major role that health agencies are playing
in NPP, health ministries have their own internal coordinating challenges
with regard to PP services and information. At the federal level, FMOH has
_ssigned this internal coordination function to the PHC Department; in each
state a state ministry of health official has been designated FP
Coordinator. Recently, steps were taken to address a major gap in
coordination of NPP when 55 agencies/individuals were invited to constitute
the National Consultative Group on Population for Development (NCGPD), a
high-level policy body that would meet about twice yearly under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Health. Representation includes twelve
Federal agencies, six state agencies from each of four states (one each
3   In accordance with the civil service reforms of 1988, each ministry
may, at its option, establish up to five departments in addition to three
mandatory departments responsible for planning, personnel, and finance.
Thus FMO0 used one of its five optional slots for DPA.



- 11 -
from the four health zones), four national NGOs, three main religious
bodies, along with traditional leaders, eminent individuals, and selected
technical experts (for the full list see Annex 2-7). MCGPD was inaugurated
in April 1990, at which time its main functions were announced: assisting
with overall coordination and evaluation of NPP, reviewing and approving
NPP strategies and budgets, and approving training and research proposals.
2.16      Some important lessons for NPP from other countries.  In April
1989, the UN's Regional Institute for Population Studies in Accra held a
landmark meeting on the Impact of PP Programmes in Sub-Saharan Africa,"
which identified several important lessons relevant to Nigeria's new
program. First, it is critical to organize national programs so that they
can readily reach beyond the health sector. While integration of FP
services into health programs is essential, not to go beyond this will
subject FP to all of the constraints in coverage and effectiveness that
characterize most health systems. Community-based distribution (CBD) and
social marketing programs are key examples of ways to reach beyond the
constraints of health systems. Second, it is also critical that the
highest level political support and commitment be maintained throughout the
life of the program and not just during the formulation of the policy in
order to harness the full array of public sector resources required for a
program to be effective. Third, as a corollary to this, the coordinating
body responsible for the day-to-day oversight of the program should itself
be situated at the highest possible level, e.g., in the office of the head
of state (although it may often be preferable to initiate programs in the
context of the health sector and then shift them to more visible loci after
they have developed some). In the end, however, the most critical
criterion is where they will receive adequate support and commitment.
Fourth, there are considerable differences in the needs and perceptions of
different beneficiary groups and audiences and hence programs need to
segment their intervention strategies accordingly if these groups are to be
reached effectively. Fifth, by virtue of their freedom from many
bureaucratic and political constraints and their credibility with certain
constituencies, NGOs can make valuable contributions to a program's
success. Finally, because population programs require the active
participation of millions of individuals, which is much easier with the
support of their communities, decentralization and extensive comunmity
participation make such behavioral change easier.
D. Current Issues/Constraints in Population and Possible Solutions
2.17      Strong cultural suyports for large families.  Of the half dozen
or so key constraints facing Nigeria's population program, perhaps the most
profound is the strong and persistent social and cultural supports for
large families and high fertility. The social status of adult women, as
well as men, is greatly dependent upon demonstrated fertility, with
barrenness one of the greatest social tragedies that can occur to a woman
in a traditional household. There are, however, relatively strong
traditional supports for sgacing of births, which consequently may often be
the entry point for FP promotional strategies. Clearly, there is need for
much more understanding of these traditional values, how they work, and any
counterpressures that can be capitalized on. This, in turn, would have to
be translated into program strategies, especially strong IEC efforts.



- 12 -
2.18      Tremendous diversity, which defies standard solutions.  Nigeria
is one of the most diverse societies in the world in terms of culture,
religion, ethnicity, and geography. In addition, it has a highly
decentralized political structure with 21 states, a separate Federal
Capital Territory, and 453 local governments. This means that there are
vastly differing degrees of readiness to adopt PP across the country and
that highly differentiated and flexible strategies need to be devised. In
turn, this implies that intellectual and political leadership for the
program must be very broad based, representing different key communities.
Obviously a high degree of decentralization is required, but a strategy for
systematic development of state and local population programs has yet to be
devised.
2.19      Still limited political support. The support for the
development of the national policy has come almost exclusively from
government officials and technocrats. It is not yet evident that religious
and traditional leaders are widely committed. The group formulating the
policy was unable to broach one of the most essential issues that links
population to the political process, namely, the important role that
population size plays in the formula for allocating to states funds from
the Federation Account--40Z of the states" allocations being determined by
population4. Intensive IEC activities are required to reach various
leadership groups. In addition, external agencies, such as the Bank Group,
that have access to top political leaders need to continually bring
population issues to their attention.
2.20      Lack of a well-defined program. Nigeria has not yet effectively
moved from a strong, well-articulated population policy to a systematic,
organized, and coordinated program to implement that policy. Such a
program will, of course, evolve over time, but an initial statement of an
operationalized strategy is urgently needed. This has begun to emerge in
the form of the rolling three-year plan prepared by the Population Working
Group, but, as noted above (para. 2.12), the large number of activities
given in the plan remain to be prioritized. In addition, the plan does not
seem to be guided by any strong sense of the magnitude of effort required
to meet the targets in the policy (e.g., in terms of the required level of
contraceptive prevalence required per para. 2.11). Another important role
of such a strategy is to provide the framework around which consensus can
be developed among the key collaborating agencies (CAs), and this the
present work plan seems to be doing effectively. It will also provide the
basis for support from the Bank Group through the proposed National
Population Project (para. 3.03).
2.21      Weakness in coordination mechanisms for NPP. As noted above
(para. 2.15), in 1988 Government established a permanent coordinating body
4   Another federation, India, was faced with a similar issue and solved it
by freezing the relative size of state allocations as of a given past
census. This immediately turned the motivation to reduce population growth
around since the slower a state's population grows, the higher its share in
per capita terms.



_ 13 -
for the NPP, the Department of Popul.; .on Activities. While it has been
given virtually the highest possible status in an operating ministry, that
of a department, it suffers from some limitations due to its not being in a
more central body, such as the Office of the President, or not being more
independent in the form, say, of a parastatal or even of a fully autonomous
body. To compensate for this limitation vis-a-vis the other operating
agencies whose efforts need to be coordinated by DPA requires that among
other things DPA be given some control over program resources, such as the
proposed project. In addition, it means that DPA needs extremely strong
and effective leadership to establish its credibility with other ministries
and with agencies outside of government. In addition, coordination
mechanisms at state and local levels are still nonexistent, and it is
nearly impossible for DPA to function effectively at those levels.
Recently Government set up NCGPD (para. 2.15), which clearly fills a
critical gap in coordination of NPP at the top level.
2.22      Development of monitoring and evaluation capacity lagsing
behind. Other than designation by FGN of NPC as the agency responsible for
monitoring the overall impact of NPP, littl. has been done to work out an
agreed strategy for this purpose. Moreover, the medium and longer term
targets cited in the policy (para. 2.11) have not yet been translated into
any interim or disaggregated targets. The decentralized nature of the
political process in Nigeria understandably makes this a major challenge,
but it nonetheless is necessary if one is ever to pinpoint where the
program needs strengthening. A management information system (MIS) based
on FP service statistics is beginning to function, but it still needs to be
made much more user oriented by strengthening the feedback loop and more
comprehensive by including information on contraceptive supplies. As in
other areas (para. 2.24), the donors have tended to fill the vacuum in the
area of monitoring and evaluation, so there is an urgent need for DPA, on
behalf of NPP, to exert leadership in establishment of a common approach
among the main agencies involved. A possible framework for this purpose
was suggested by a Bank mission (Annes 2-8).
2.23      Inadequate means for harnessing NGOs.  Although the major
original initiatives in PP were by NGOs, especially by PPPN, the program
does not seem to have a clear vision or strategy for involving N0Gs
systematically now that Government is taking the lead. As other African
programs have demonstrated, especially in Kenya, NGOs can play a key role
in mobilizing special constituencies (para. 2.16). Mechanisms are needed
to stimulate Government to involve NGOs explicitly and systematically. One
possibility is to reserve a certain percentage of external financing for
NGOs as is proposed for the National Population Project (para. 3.05).
2.24      Weak donor coordination.  In the past, largely due to the
absence of a policy, of a national program, and of a coordinating body,
donors understandably tended to go their own way, working out ad hoc
agreements with different groups interested in one kind of population
activity or another. This history adds to Government's difficulties in now
taking charge, but also inhibiting its doing so has been the absence of a
credible action plan devised by Nigerian institutions (para. 2.20) to which
the donors could then respond.  It is vital, therefore, since such an
action plan is emerging in the form of the three-year work plan prepared by



- 14 -
the Population Working Group, that the proposed support from the Bank Group
for the National Population Project be closely linked with that plan. In
addition, the financing mechanism used should be able to accomunodate other
donors' inputs and be flexible enough so as not to crowd out potential
assistance, especially in the form of grants, from new donors as they
become interested in population.
E. The Bank Group's Strategy for Population in Nigeria
2.25      Current and proposed operations in population and health.  A
nu-mber of activities by the Bank Group in Nigeria are directly or
indirectly helping implement the Government's far-reaching population
policy. Two statewide health projects are under implementation (the Sokoto
Health Project--Loan 2503-UNI, approved in 1985, and the Imo Health and
Population Project--Loan 3034-UNI, approved in 1989). After delays due to
project restructuring, implementation of the Sokoto Project is proceeding
reasonably well; the Imo Project has completed significant ground work and
is poised for undertaking a broad array of activities. Also approved in
1989 was the Essential Drufa Project (Loan 3125-UNI), which will assist the
Federal Government and four states to develop cost-effective mechanisms for
providing safe and reliable supplies of drugs to the public. The Essential
Drugs Project has taken off smoothly, and strong structures for program
implementation have been set up in PMOH and all four states. The Sokoto
Project is focussed on one of the key determinants of fertility (maternal
and child health), although not necessarily for population reasons. On the
other hand, the Imo Project, which was developed during the period when the
national population policy was also being prepared, has an explicit
population component, including support for development of a state
population coordination office in the Governor's Office. A fourth health
project was negotiated in late 1990--the Health System Fund Project, which
will provide a line of credit for strengthening health delivery systems at
state and local levels. It will indirectly contribute to the population
effort by helping states and LGAs develop strong health delivery systems
into which PP services can be integrated. Indirectly, the Essential Drugs
Project will also strengthen health delivery systems and increase their
credibility; in addition contraceptives are considered a fundamental part
of essential drugs lists. Sector work currently underway or planned will
examine several of the issues identified above, such as ways to increase
the involvement of NGOs (para. 2.23). It will also endeavor to identify
the role of fiscal incentivesidisincentives for large families, e.g.,
provisions of the tax code, and help determine ways in which sectoral
support from the Bank Group-_in agriculture, education, infrastructure,
etc.--can be harnessed to contribute to population goals. Finally, in
collaboration with UNFPA and the International Planned Parenthood
Federation and with the support of the World Health Organization and the
African Development Bank, the Africa Technical Department's program called
the  Agenda to Improve the Implementation of Population Programs in Sub-
Saharan Africa in the 1990ls places considerable emphasis on providing
guidance to Nigeria's nascent program.
2.26      Rationale for Bank Group involvement in population.  There is
ample justification for the Bank Group's support to Nigeria's population
program. Most important is that ultimately Nigeria's NPP will have a major



- is -
impact on the economic status and the health and well-being of nearly one-
quarter of Sub-Saharan Africa's people. Basically Nigeria's population
policy is sound and without any doubt deserves to be supported by the
international community. The program called for in that policy is broadly
based and intersectoral in nature, which matches well with the Bank Group's
broad assistance for virtually every development sector in Nigeria. In
addition, because of its intensive dialogue and good relations with the
Government, the Bank is well, placed to raise w2.h top officials iimortant
issues regarding the program as they arise. Moreover, the Bank's
relationship with the health sector is well established and its credibility
is growing through an expanding series of projects. Finally, the task at
hand is gigantic, requiring tremendous resources over a long period of time
even if more realistic targets are established (para. 2.11). Without the
major input of resources that probably only the Bank Group would be willing
and capable of providing, Government stands virtually no chance of
mobilizing the funds required, particularly during the next decade or so.
1II. THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
3.01      Prolect rationale.  Additional external assistance at this time
for the National Population Programme (NPP) is warranted on a number of
grounds. Obviously there is an urgent need to respond quickly and
forcefully to the country's rapid population growth because of its broad
ranging impact on present snd future soclal and economic development (para.
2.03). In addition, it is crucial on health and welfare grounds to help
individuals control their fertility due to the harmful effects of births
that occur when the mother is too young or too old or that occur too
frequently (para. 2.04). At the same time, NPP requires strong support
domestically and from external assistance agencies to help launch it
effectively in the face of numerous constraints. These constraints range
from the strong cultural supports for large families that are more
significant in their impact in Africa than in any other region (para.
2.17), to a number of limitations that often characterize new programs.
Among the latter are difficulties in translating a strong policy into an
effective operational plan (para. 2.20) and problems in coordinating the
activities of interested agencies--both those implementing the program and
those assisting it (paras. 2.21 and 2.24). The proposed project is
designed to respond to these and other key sectoral constraints in a
flexible manner (see matrix showing relationships between sectoral
constraints and project actions and conditions in Annex 3-1). In
particular, the project is focussed on strengthening the ability of NPP to
find Nigerian solutions to Nigeria's population problems and then to apply
them as quickly as possible through a responsive financing mechanism.
3.02      Proiect obiectives.  In view of the needs described above, the
immediate objectives of the project are to strengthen the institutional
framework and to expand the experiential basis for undertaking a large-
scale, intersectoral national population program over the coming decades in
fulfillment of Nigeria"s ambitious population policy goals. Thus, in the
long run the project will promote improvemento in the economic well-being,



- 16 -
health, and general welfare of Nigerians through slowed population growth
and reduced fertility. Experience elsewhere in Africa indicates that a
coacerted effort will be required in Nigeria for many decades to tackle the
problem of rapid population growth/high fertility. This project is
intended to assist Nigerian institutions collectively and individually to
devise constructive approaches to the provision of population-reLated
information and services. It will do so by funding subprojects designed
and implemented by a number of agencies at all levels of government, by
universities, and by non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Many of these
subprojects will focus on increasing family planning (FP) practice through
provision of services and conduct of intensive informationleducationl
communication (IEC) activities. Others will mobilize needed commitment to
a strong NP? on the part of various leadership groups, while still others
will develop supportive functions required for a smooth functioning and
efficient NPP in such areas as planning, coordination, financing,
monitoring, evaluation, and research.
B.   Project Description
3.03      Proiect scope.  In view of the comprehensive nature of the
polizy that is being supported by the project, the scope of the project is
also quite broad--in terms of the types of agencies participating in the
project, their geographical coverage, and the nature of activities to be
financed. The project will support activities having nationwide coverage
through federal agencies as well as more intensive activities in specific
areas. Collaborating agencies (CAs) at the Federal level have accepted the
proposal of the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) to focus their inputs
initially on some or all of the approximately 113 local government areas
(LGAs) in which PNH has fostered intensive efforts througb its National
Primary Health (PHC) Programme. These LGAs are located in all 21 states
and the Federal Capital Territory. The implementing agencies qualified to
participate in the project range across a number of sectors, although the
dominant role in NPP and hence in the project is being played by the health
sector. Health agencies not only represent a major source of FP services,
but, as described above (para. 2.15), PNOH hosts the coordinating body for
NPP, the Department of Population Activities (DPA). Other sectors already
involved in the project are education, information, statistics, and
planning. The range of activities to be covered by the project is also
broad, as noted in the para. above. The nature of activities that can be
financed under the project will be determined, in part, by detailed rolling
three-year work plans, the first of which--for 1990-92--was prepared under
DPA's leadership in late 1989 (para. 2.20). The 1990-92 work plan was
formally agreed between the CAs and DPA at the April 1990 inaugural meeting
of the National Consultative Group on Population for Development (NCGPD).
The scope of the project must be further defined by limiting it to
financing activities supporting specific priority strategies in the policy.
This is most clear cut with regard to one particular strategy of the
policy, namely Strategy 5.7 on Spacial Distribution of the Population (see
Annex 2-4), which is beyond the scope of a population project since its
primary emphasis is on the improvement of rural Infrastructure (water
supply, access roads, etc.) as a means of reducing rural-urban migration.
Accordingly, a list of the types of activities that would be supported by
the project--based on the initial three-year rolling plan and categorized



- 17 -
in accordance with the strategies in the policy paper--has been prepared
(Annex 3-2). At negotiations FON agreed to this list and gave assurances
that each year thereafter the list will be jointly reviewed and, if
necessary, updated on the basis of revisions that have been made in the
rolling three-year work plan for population.
3.04      Establishment of the Population Activities Fund (PAP).  The
proposed means for providing project support to NPP is through the
establishment of PAP, which would provide grant financing for subprojects
as CAs prepare and submit acceptable proposals. Such a flexible mechanism
is justified on several grounds. First, due to the newness of the program,
many effective intervention strate-;ies are not yet clear, and new ones will
need to be devised and tested co,..tantly for some years to come. PAP would
enable immediate financing for activities that are clearly required and
have already been identified and prepared, but it would also be able to
finance over the life of the project additioaal interventions that meet
certain criteria. Establishment of such a fund and its promotion among a
large number of potentially interested agencies permits a more bottom-up,
demand-driven approach than would be possible if the project were limited
to those activities fully identified and appraised from the beginning.
Finally, since other donors can also make resources available to NPP
through the fund, the ability of program managers to coordinate inputs from
different funding agencies is considerably improved. An important
requirement for the effective functioning of PAP is that funds would need
to be passed on to CAs as subventions, i.e., on a grant basis, although, of
course, the CAs would be contributing counterpart funds out of their own
budgets (para. 3.17). ENOB and IDA have concluded that most potential CAs
at the state and local levels, especially at this early stage of program
development, would not be prepared to borrow funds intended solely for
implementing population activities. In any case, NGOs, whose participation
in NPP urgently needs to be promoted (para. 2.23), could only be supported
through grants. Therefore, it has been agreed that Nigeria vould follow a
policy that has been found necessary elsewhere in the population field,
notably India, of making funds available on a grant basis as an incentive
to states and local governments to participate in this new program of major
national significance. PAP would be administered by PMOH jointly through
its DPA and the new Population Activities Fund Agency (PAPA), and the
project will include financing for subproject development and PAP
management functions (para. 4.10).  The Ministry of Justice has concluded
that a decree will be required to provide those managing PAF with the
appropriate statutory authority for approving proposals, entering into
agreements with CAs, and disbursing funds. The initial draft of such a
decree has been prepared. Due to the fundamental importance of PAP to the
functioning of the proposed project, it was agreed at negotiations that
approval of this decree by the appropriate body would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
3.05      Nature of subproiects to be financed under PAP.  Subprojects to
be financed under PAF can be classified in two ways--in terms of the
phasing of their participation in PAP and in terms of the nature of the CA
responsible for the subproject. Seven subprojects have been prepared in
advance (paras. 3.06 and 4.01) and jointly appraised by IDA and DPA. These
are referred to as Phase I subprojects, whereas those that will be prepared



- 18 -
and subsequently appraised by DPA and PAFA are known as Phase II
subprojects. For many purposes, however, such as establishing differing
cost sharing ratios, it is important to categorize subprojects according to
the type of CA. Tentatively, four categories have been established for
administration of PAP. They ares Federal government agencies, including
parastatals operating on a commercial basis (such as the Nigerian
Television Authority); state governments and their parastatals; local
government administrations (LGAs); and NGOs. While the variety of
subprojects that have been or are likely to be proposed by CAs is very
great, typically most subprojects would include in-service training,
equipment, vehicles, materials (e.g., paper and other media production
requirements), office supplies, consulting services, media time and space,
and critical incremental operating costs such as travel, per diems, and
maintenance. To stimulate the development of subprojects that have
appropriate mlxes of activities, that are consistent with broader FGN
objectives, etc., certain guidelines regarding subproject content have been
agreed between IDA and FGN. These have been formulated so as not to
constrain flexibility unduly, and, of course, if circumstances warrant,
exemptions could be agreed between FQN and IDA. The basic aspects of Phase
RI subprojects about which FGN gave assurances at negotiations are the
following: (a) the initial commitment to a given subproject will be
limited to a maximum of three years with any renewals based on performance
indicators; (b) some IEC activities will be included 'n any subproject
focussed on PP service delivery; (c) any state's proposal will bear a clear
relationship to the activities and needs of its LOAs; and (d) at least 3S
of the funds in PAP for Phase II subprojects will be reserved for NGOs.
Detailed proposals regarding these guidelines and criteria will be
formulated by PGN as part of the detailed procedures for the operation of
PAO1 that are to be agreed with IDA and approved by NCGPD as a condition of
disbursement from PAP for subDroiects.
3.06      Phase I subDroiectes an overview.  Seven Phase I subprojects
were prepared in advance for joint appraisal by IDA and DPA. They were
selected to represent a wide range of priority activities and were also
designed to fill gaps in present funding by other external agencies. In
accordance with the general principle that the initial commitment from PAF
to a subproject should be for a maximum of three years (para. 3.05), each
of the Phase I subprojects has been designed for a three-year
implementation period. All seven of these subprojects are to be
implemented by Federal agencies although many support state or even local-
level activities and consequently also increase implementation capacities
at those levels. Three will be implemented by the PMOH and one each by the
Federal Ministry of Information (PMOI), the Nigerian Educational Research
and Development Council (NERDC), the National Population Commission (NPC),
and the Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning (PMHP). Three subprojects
are in the IEC area; one focusses on PP service delivery; and three are
aimed essentially at development of supportive activities in training and
research, monitoring of impact, and integration of population
considerations into planning. A summary matrix with comparative
information on each of these Phase I subprojects is found at Annex 3,3.
Phase I subprojects have served/will serve at least three important
functions. First, they permit the key Federal CAs to begin implementing
activities right away, many of which will pave the way for Phase II



- 19 -
proposals from states and LGAs. Second, they permitted FGN officials, in
cooperation with IDA staff, to begin developing skills in subproject
identification, preparation, and appraisal. Finally, Phase I subprojects
ensure a pipeline for PAF that illustrates to PGN policy makers and others
tfie kinds of projects that will be financed out of PAP. As these seven
subprojects are fully agreed between IDA and FOG, after negotiations they
are to be presented to NCGPD for its information and to PAPA to prepare
subproject agreements with the responsible CAs.
3.07      Subgroiect Is  Integration of PP into Maternal and Child Health
(MCH). This subproject has been prepared by the Family Health Division
(FHD), which is part of FMOH's PHC Department, to increase the health and
well-being of semi-urban and rural families by promoting the systematic
practice of PP in the context of MCH services. Specifically, this
subproject will expand and strengthen the mana8ement and technical
capabilities of FHD, FMOH's four zonal offices for PBC. and the offices of
state FP coordinators to respond to MCH/PP needs in the field, including
provision of effective in-service training and supervislon. It will extend
the coverage of FP services in 22 selected LOAs (one per state plus the
Federal Capital Territory) with a total population of over five million;
about one-third of the LGAs will be brought into the scheme each year. The
LGAs will be selected from among the 113 that have received early phase
support from FMOH under its National PHC Programme, and therefore are the
same LGAs that will receive inputs under other Phase I subprojects (para.
3.03).  Support provided by the subproject will enable five PHC centers in
each LGA to provide comprehensive PP services, while basic commodities and
education will be provided at community level through a system of
coumunity-based health and PP services delivered by volunteer workers.
There will be an average of nearly 150 such volunteers in each LGA; they
will be supervised at the ratio of about 1X8 by community health extension
workers, who are the backbone of the National PHC Programme. This
volunteer scheme will be linked as much as possible with women's groups and
other local NGOs. In view of Government's general policy to charge for
drugs except in cases of extreme poverty, cost recovery will also be
introduced for contraceptives5 under this subproject. After the specific
LGAs have been selected, FP targets for each in terms of couple-years of
protection, will be devised by the Monitoring and Evaluation Branch of
PMOH's PHC Department. Family planning acceptance and other changes at the
household level will be assessed independently in selected LGAs through a
measurement scheme being developed by WPC (para. 3.12). The efforts in
these first 22 LGAs will be treated as pilot experiences for NPP as a whole
and for each state. Therefore the subproject places strong emphasis on
developing the capacity of PHD and its state-level counterparts to promote
preparation of additional subproject proposals by LGAs, in association with
5At present it is expected that adequate amounts of contraceptive supplies
for at least another four years will be made available by USAID and UNFPA
under existing agreements with Government. Therefore no contraceptives are
being financed under this subproject. Should this assumption prove to be
incorrect, a separate 'commodities subproject* could be formulated for PAP
funding whenever necessary.



- 20 -
local NG0s, for subsequent funding from PAY. A fuller description of the
subproject is given in Annex 3-4, including a list of the 22 LGAs.
3.08      Subproiect 2s  Promotion of PP throuih Health Education.  This
subproject was also prepared by PFOH's PHC Department, which is responsible
for national health education activities through its Health Zducation
Branch (HEB). Throughout the country, health education is underdeveloped,
understaffed, and underfunded, with each state ministry of health often
having, for instance, only one trained health educator. In view of this
overall neglect of health education, it was agreed that this subproject
would provide relatively broad support to strengthen the health education
component of all PHC services with, however, an emphasis on PP. The
subproject will also include some AIDS education. To strengthen the
Federal health education infrastructure, the subproject provides for
incremental staff, in-service training, equipment, and operating costs for
the HEB itself along with establishment of health education capabilities
for the first time as part of the zonal PHC offices. Due to limited
training capacities for professional health educators, the subproject will
help strengthen the existing Africa Regional Health Education Centre at the
University of Ibadan and help create a new health education training
capacity at a northern university with a strong community health
department. Under the subproject, prototype IEC materials will be
developed, based on focus group interviews and surveys of attitudes and
knowledge, and state and local government health staff trained and assisted
in their adaptation to meet local needs. Special stress will be placed 'n
siple materials for low literacy groups explaining how to use FP methods,
which can be taken home by PP acceptors. Another topic of special emphasis
will be promotion of better understanding of men's responsibilities in
regard to the need for and practice of FP. At the local level, emphasis
will be placed on the same 22 LAs being supported by the subproject on
FP/MCH services (para. 3.07), where, among other things, existing folk
media (e.g., traditional drama troops) will be used. The monitoring and
evaluation of these activities at the LA level will be subsumed by the
measures being applied to Subproject 1. HEB will also work closely with
other Federal agencies engaged in IEC activities. In cooperation with
PMOI, selected mass media materials will be produced and steps taken to
mobilize support for NPP on the part of media staff and local leadership
groups (para. 3.10). Likewise, with regard to the health education content
of primary education, REB will work closely with NERDC (para. 3.11). The
subproject does not provide directly for the much needed strengthening of
the health education infrastructure at state and local levels as it is
anticipated that these requirements will be met by additional subproject
proposals to be submitted in due time directly to PAF by states andlor
LGAs. Assistance in the development of such proposals would be provided
jointly by HEB and PHD. A fuller description of the subproject is given in
Annex 3-5.
3.09      Subproiect 3:  Tertiary Centres for Reproductive Health (TCRHs).
Prepared by FMOHs Department of Hospital Services and Training, this
subproject will help meet the urgent need for a larger number of Federal
teaching hospitalslmedical faculties to provide specialized technical
training, supervision, and research services for NPP, including promotion
and supervision of stronger FP services at state general hospitals. The



- 21 -
subproject emphasizes development of Nigerian capacities to provide more
sophisticated PP services, such as sterilizations; to manage the side
effects of contraceptives; and to test the safety and efficacy of current
and new contraceptives under Nigerian circumstances. The subproject builds
on the experience of University College Hospital at the University of
Ibadan, which has received support in these areas from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID)6 and was designated the first
World Health Organization collaborating research center for human
reproduction in Africa. The subproject will also support work on other
aspects of reproductive health, including infertility, which represents a
serious social problem for African couples, and the treatment and
prevention of the debilitating and stigmatizing medical problems that can
occur to young teenagers as a result of pregnancy. The subproject will
provide support to the University College Hospital/University of Ibadan to
consolidate and expand work already underway and to penmit lt to assist the
other TCRHs launch their programs through development of curricula and
conduct of specialized training. To extend coverage to the three other
health zones of the country, the subproject will help establish TCR8s in
teaching hospitalslmedical faculties associated with Ahmadu Bello
University (Zaria) and the Universities of Maiduguri and of Nigeria
(Enugu). Each of these new TCRHs will comprise an PP unit, an infertility
unit, and a clinic to treat sexually transmitted diseases (which is
critical to help stem the spread of AIDS); will undertake operational
research on FP service delivery; and will provide training and supervision
for FP service delivery at the secondary institutions in its zone. In
close consultation with DPA, overall supervision and evaluation of the
subproject will be provided by FMOH's Department of Hospital Services and
Training, which will also support the four TCRHs through the provision of
consultancy services, conduct of national seminars, procurement of
equipment, and provision of research grants. The department is also being
provided with office equipment, transport, and operating costs. A fuller
description of the subproject appears at Annex 3-6.
3.10      Subproiect 4s  Public Enlightenment on Population.  This
subproject was prepared by FMO1's External Publicity and Public
Enlightenment Department, which plans to set up a separate Population
Information and Communication Branch (PICB) to oversee population
activities in the information sector. FHOX, along with its state
counterparts, has a network of information officers and operates cinema
vans and other information outlets. In addition, as the supervising
ministry for the government-owned mass media, FMOI has particularly good
access to radio and television, of which Nigeria has more outlets than any
other country on the continent. To capitalize on these media outlets, the
subproject will finance the development, testing, and dissemination of
printed and electronic media materials with priority population messages,
including radio and television dramas. The main thrust of activities
during the first three-year subproject, however, would be to develop the
institutional base needed so that the information sector can play an
effective role in NPP. The development of PICB, including its multimedia
6Primarily through the Johns Hopkins Program for International Education in
Gynecology and Obstetrics (JHPIEGO).



- 22 -
materials development capacity, and various training activities for Federal
and state information officers would be supported. The capacity to provide
various forms of training and technical assistance in population IEC on a
continuous basis would be developed at FfOIs National Institute of Public
Information (Raduna), which would also have a small population IZC
documentation center, and in two universities, provisionally the University
of Lagos, which already has a strong Mass Communications Department, and
the Anambra State University of Science and Technology. The subproject
would also develop the capacity of one state television organization in the
North for production of materials of a regional nature. To assist in this
extensive institutional development effort, PICB will employ five local
consultants throughout the three years of the subproject. In the 22 LGAs
being covered by Subprojects 1 and 2, PICB will experiment with the
development of small units for population and other forms of development
information at the LGA level, including the use of village-level volunteers
to disseminate development information. These volunteers will be supplied
with bicycles, simple information kits, and audio cassette players. In
these LGAs, PICB will also cooperate with the REB and FHD in use of folk
media to reach the general public and in special IEC activities focussed on
local leadership groups. A major metas for gauging the overall impact of
FMOI's IEC efforts will be periodic measurement, in cooperation with other
subprojects, of changes in knowledge, attitudes, and practices among
priority audiences. Fuller details on this subproject are given at Annex
3-7.
3.11      Subproiect 5:  Po2ulationllamily Life Education through Primary
Schools.  To be implemented by NERDC's Population Education Department and
education authorities in states and particularly in LGAs, this subproject
will build on work on population education at the secondary level supported
over the past eight years by UNFPA. (NERDC is a parastatal under the
Federal Ministry of Education set up in particular to foster development of
new curricula and educational materials and to promote their use through
teacher training etc.) In recent years, additional support has been
received from USAID to strengthen the family life education component of
the program. This three-year subproject will be considered the pilot phase
for development of the populationlfamily life education strategy for the
primary level. It will be limited to about one-quarter of the primary
schools in the 113 LGAs designated for initial emphasis by the Population
Working Group. Inasmuch as the secondary school program still remains to
be consolidated--intensive efforts are underway only in a limited number of
pilot schools across the country--this major expansion in NERDC's work load
will necessitate a major increase in the department's staff. Based on a
strategy similar to that used to develop population education for the
secondary level, NERDC will mobilize a number of resource persons from
throughout the country to develop the population education curriculum for
primary schools; develop and distribute instructional materials; and train
chief education officers from the 113 LGAs, along with the headmasters and
all fifth and sixth grade teachers in the participating primary schools.
The approach that is likely to be followed would entail integration of
population concepts into about four basic subjects. By the end of the
third year, about 2,300 primary schools will be covered, involving about
9,000 trained teachers and reaching some 1.6 million students. A fuller
description of the subproject appears at Annex 3-8.



- 23 -
3.12      Subproiect 6:  Monitoring of NPP Impact through a Sentinel
Survey System. This subproject has been prepared by NPC, which has been
mandated by Government, along with conduct of the 1991 census, also to
monitor the impact of NPP in demographic terms. This latter function
entails the use of various measurement devices to determine changes in
fertility and, ultimately, in population growth. Among other relevant data
collection approaches that have been planned or are already underway in
Nigeria are a National Demographic and Health Survey, the periodic addition
of a module on PP to the Federal Office of Statistics' annual household
surveys, and routine service statistics. While these approaches give
valuable feedback in regard to such things as program participation (e.g.,
contraceptive prevalence), they are less definitive with regard to actual
fertility levels, which may be influenced by a number of variables beyond
PP practice. In recent years, with technical support from the University
of North Carolina, NPC has piloted an innovative methodology for obtaining
rapid and virtually continuous feedback on small changes in actual
fertility and, if desired, on other demographic or social variables known
as the sentinel survey system. NPC now intends to extend the use of this
methodology from the initial pilot areas and apply it as a basic means for
fulfilling its mandate to monitor the impact of NPP. In this second phase
of the development of the system, it will cover 12 states, and within each
state, 10 enumeration areas. Included among the areas to which the system
is to be extended will be parts of the LGAs to be covered with intensified
PP services and health education under Subprojects 1 and 2. A fuller
description of NPP's subproject appears at Annex 3-9.
3.13      Subproiect 7s  Integration of Population into Planning and
Budgeting. This subproject has been prepared by FMBP's Department of
Utilities and Social Services, with assistance from the Nigerian Institute
of Social and Economic kesearch (NISER), a parastatal under PMBP. It is
intended to ensure that sectoral and overall planning units at state and
Federal levels develop the capacity to take population factors into account
more effectively in their work. Besides promoting the incorporation of
population factors into planning, this subproject will help ensure that
development activities more fully support the objectives of the National
Population Policy. At the Federal level, PMBP and five other sectoral
ministries will be involved: Agriculture, Education, Health, Labour, and
Social Development. For the three years of this subproject, work at the
state level will be limited to eight states, two in each of the four health
zones. In each of these states, three ministries will participate:
Finance and Planning, Education, and Health. The focal points for
training, provision of computers, and other activities will be departments
of planning, research, and statistics, which each ministry was mandated to
establish as part of the 1988 civil service reforms. In implementing this
subproject, FMBP will collaborate with universities with strong demographic
and economics departments (Obafemi Awolowo University and one or two others
to be selected) along with NPC, which has primary responsibility for the
generation and analysis of census and other demographic data. A fuller
description of the subproject appears at Annex 3-10.
3.14      Special research on socio-cultural and economic considerations
in implementation of NPP. As noted above (para. 2.17), the social,



- 24 -
economic and cultural supports for large families and high fertility are
clearly stronger in Africa than virtually any other part of the world.
This implies that African population programs need to be extremely aware of
and responsive to socio-cultural considerations to be successful. One of
the mistakes that occurred in some of the pioneering efforts on the
continent, for instance in Kenya, was to generalize too readily from the
successful Asian population programs, for which this was a far less salient
area of concern. To help rectify this omission, a critical separate
component of the project will be development of a systematic effort to
explore in depth the socio-cultural and economic supports for large
families and the determinants of fertility and contraceptive use in
Nigeria. Details of the exact nature of distortions in social vs. private
demand for children need to be given special attentions in that regard
research is needed on the socio-economic pressures for having children, the
roles children are expected to play, and the economic limitations that may
now be restricting such expectations. Such research will be supported
through the Population Research Fund (PRP), which will be set up and
administered by NISER, the Federal parastatal under the Office of the
President that is responsible for conducting or commissioning social and
economic research in support of development and for promoting its
utilization. PRF will identify practical ways for NPP to overcome these
major socio-cultural and economic constraints and will ferret out existing
cultural and social features, limited as they may be, that can oe harnessed
in support of the goals of NPP. In addition, PRF will promote operational
research on such issues as the impact of charging for contraceptives on
utilization of PP services. It will also carefully examine the successes
of other programs in Africa and, to the extent they are relevant, ones
beyond Africa for practical guidance in implementing NPP. To ensure that
intervention strategies and policy initiatives flowing out of its findings
are taken up, PRF will work with relevant implementing agencies to devise
subprojects that could, as required, be financed out of PAP and will
undertake a dialogue with policy makers to encourage necessary action. It
is expected that PRF will build on the efforts being coordinated in Nigeria
by NISER and funded during 1989-91 as part of the African Technical
Department's sector work on population (para. 2.25). Research topics for
attention by PRP are already being identified by the Population Working
Group during preparation of the three-year population work plan. In
addition, the population sector work currently being undertaken by AF4PH
has as one objective the development of a research agenda for early
attention by PRF. As PRF would be administered separately from PAF, it has
been agreed with the key involved agencies that US$4 million be made
available for PRF over the life of the project to bring together a core
group of specialists in different disciplines, commission research by
universities and other research bodies, conduct workshops to bring together
researchers and program managers, and administer the program. An
illustrative one-year budget has been prepared by NISER for the operation
of PRP showing that about 822 of the funds would be used for program
purposes (mostly research subcontracts). NISER has proposed that initially
the core team of researchers at NISER associated with PRF be kept
relatively small and that its primary responsibility be management of PRP
itself. The extent to which a larger group of researchers may need to be
assembled at NISER itself to focus on key research topics will be revisited
after several years' experience. It was agreed at negotiations that



- 25 -
preparation of a detailed statement of the operational procedures for PR?
acceptable to IDA, along with the first year's work plan, would be a
condition of disbursement for PRP. FMOH anticipates providing funds to
support this preparatory work out of its financing for project preparation
activities under the Imo Health and Population Project.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
3.15      Estimated proiect cost.  The overall estimated cost of the
project is US$93.6 million equivalent. The estimated total cost, including
contingencies, for the seven Phase I subprojects is US$39.7 million
equivalent, of which about 282 represents the foreign exchange component.
The base date for these cost estimates has been adjusted to December 1990.
A further amount of US$38 million equivalent is considered sufficient to
finance Phase II subprojects to be initiated over a period of about five
years (see pars. 3.16). The estimated cost for the development of PAPA, as
well as for strengthening DPA to support PAF, is US$11.9 million
equivalent. The estimated cost of duties and taxes is US$2.3 million
equivalent. Summary cost estimates for each subproject and for
strengthening of DPA and development of PAPA, by type of expenditure, are
given at Annex 3-11. Finally, as noted above (para. 3.14), it is proposed
that US$4 million be set aside to finance PRF. Contingencies are included
in the detailed cost estimates for each Phase I subproject as the
agreements to be executed between PAP and each implementing agency will
have to include contingencies. The estimated cost of assistance for
management of PAF also includes contingencies, which have been treated in
the normal fashlon. For the purpose of calculating price contingencies,
the following assumptions regarding inflation rates have been applied: (a)
domestic, 1990s 13.5X, 1991 onwards 10X; (b) foreign, 1990 onwards 3.4X.
Physical contingencies of 102 have been applied to base prices. In view of
the unprogrammed nature of the funds allocated for Phase II subprojects and
PRF, separate contingencies were not calculated. It should be noted that
the estimated foreign exchange component of the project is only about 28?,
but this is typical of population and health projects, which normally
entail considerable local operating costs. Project costs, by component,
are summarized below:



- 26 -
Local          Foreign        Total
--------- (US$ millions)---------
1. Phase I Subprojects from PAFt
a. Integration of PP into Maternal
and Child Health                     7.7            2.0             9.7
b. Promotion of PP through Health
Education                            2.9            1.7             4.6
c. Tertiary Centres for Reproduc-
tive Health                          8.5            4.8            13.3
d. Public Enlightenment on Popula-
tion                                 1.8            0.6             2.4
e. Population/Family Life Educa-
tion through Primary Schools         5.1            0.1             5.2
f. Monitoring of NPP Impact through
a Sentinel Survey System             1.4            0.3             1.7
g. Integration of Population into
Planning & Budgeting                 1.1            1.7             2.8
Subtotal for Phase I Subprojects       28.5           11.2            39.7
2. Phase 1I Subprojects from PAF          27.3*          10.7*            38.0
3. Development of PAPA to Manage PAP       2.4            1.5              3.9
4. Strengthening of DPA to Support PAP    5.4             2.6             8.0
5. Subcontracts from and Operation
of PRF                                  3.8            0.2             4.0
Total ProJect Costs                    67.4           26.2            93.6
*Assumed split between local and foreign costs based on Phase I subprojects
3.16      Proiecting demand for financing from PAP.  It is assumed that
all seven Phase I subprojects would be initiated in year one of the project
and that most Phase II subprojects would be initiated any time during the
subsequent five years. Based, among other things, on discussions with
states and LGAs during appraisal, assumptions have been made about the
likely demand for resources from PAP in terms of the number and size of
projects for each type of implementing agency. These are given in Annex 3-
12. It is estimated that about 80 Phase II subprojects, with a total value
of US$38 million equivalent would be approved and financed by PAP. This
implies that subprojects totalling nearly US$78 million equivalent would be
undertaken during the life of the project. Based on the proposed cost
sharing among IDA, PGN (whose counterpart funds would go through PAP), and
CAs themselves (para. 3.17), the total financing that would pass through
PAP during this time would be about US$76 million equivalent.
3.17      Financing plan.  To finance the project, it is proposed that an
IDA Credit in the amount of US$78.5 million equivalent be provided to PON,
which would, in turn, make the proceeds available on a grant basis to PAP,



- 27 -
to FMOH for the management of PAP, and to NISER for PRP. This is
equivalent to about 842 of the estimated total project cost and is higher
than normal for Bank assistance in Nigeria because of the concern that
major counterpart requirements for this first project in a new area for
which no budgetary allocations have been made in the past by any organ of
Government would be difficult to mobilize. The counterpart funding
includes gradated shares of project financing to be provided by different
levels of government (or by NGOs) as well as the contribution by FGN of
part of the costs of subprojects implemented by non-Federal agencies. The
specific percentages are given in Annex 3-12 and are reflected in the
disbursement percentages given in para. 4.18. For example, it is proposed
that for subproject proposals from LGAs, 902 of the cost be contributed by
IDA through PAPs 52 by FGN, also through PAF; and the remaining 52 by each
LGA itself. It is assumed that NGOs, as an expression of their own
interest and commitment, would be able to raise from their usual sources
the equivalent of 2.52 of their subproject costs. At negotiations FGN gave
assurances that these percentages would be applied to all subproject
agreements to be drawn up with CAs.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Status of Proiect Preparation
4.01      Project preparation and, indeed, the very design of the project
have been closely linked with the evolving structure for planning and
coordination of the National Population Programme NPP (para. 2.15). The
Department of Population Activities (DPA) was established and has been
considerably strengthened during the course of project preparation,
although some critical gaps still exist in the upper middle levels of the
department's structure. Based on agreements reached at negotiations,
accelerated efforts are underway to fill these positions. There also has
been good progress with regard to the establishment and initial staffing of
the Population Activities Fund Agency (PAPA). Government is obtaining
internal clearances for the basic legal framework for PAPA, and active
efforts to recruit the PAFA head, using the services of a professional
recruitment agency, are underway. The collaborating agencies (CAs)
responsible for the Phase I Subprojects are continuing to meet together to
refine their plans. Their readiness to begin implementation still varies
somewhat, however. For some, such as the Primary Health Care Department of
the Federal Ministry of Health (PMOR), the Nigerian Educational Research
and Development Council (NERDC), and the National Population Commission
(NPC), the subprojects represent an extension or expansion of ongoing
activities, and hence they will be able to launch their subprojects very
quickly. Others are still in the process of establishing the basic
structures needed for implementing their subprojects. For instance, in
early 1991 the Federal Ministry of Information transferred a number of
staff into the newly formed Population Information and Communication
Branch. Several additional groups, notably the National Women's
Commission, have already expressed active interest in taking advantage of
the Population Activities Fund (PAP) and have begun preparation of
proposals for Phase II Subprojects. Adding impetus to all these efforts is



- 28 -
the clear statement in recent high-level Government conmuniques of the high
priority being assigned by Government to NPP.
B.   Proiect Orsanization and Management
Operation of PAF
4.02      Promotion of PAF.  Especially because of the high degree of
decentralization in Nigeria, a concerted effort will be required, at least
in the early years of the project, to publicize PAP among potential CAs.
This will include provision of information on what agencies are entitled to
apply to PAF, what activities qualify for financing, what the basic
obligations of CAs are (e.g., with regard to counterpart finance), and how
to go about establishing relations with DPA and PAPA and then preparing a
proposal. Such promotional efforts will play an important role in
fostering an appropriate balance among kinds of subprojects and among CAs
by type and geographically. Particular attention will be paid, in
association with PHOH's PHC Department7, to providing such information to
LGAs, which, because of their responsibility for community-oriented PHC
services, are crucial to the development of PP services at the priority
peripheral level. Yet, because of their weak administrative and technical
capacities and large numbers--as a result of recent redistricting the
number of LGAs has increased by about soX to over 450--a major effort will
be required, in cooperation with the states and other funding agencies, to
mobilize LGA participation in NPP. In addition, because the North is
generally more conservative than the South with regard to FP, promotional
efforts will need to pay more attention to the northern states and LGAs.
In view of a history of limited cooperation between Government and NGOs in
the social sectors. a concerted effort will also be required to bring PAP
and its special provisions for NGOs to the attention of those that might be
interested. Because of the urgency to begin developing a decentralized
capacity parallel to DPA at the state level to, among other things, support
the development of grassroots population activities, it was agreed at
negotiations that a condition of disbursement for Phase II subprojects will
be the preparation by PON of an operational plan acceptable to IDA to
develop this level of the system for planning and coordination of NPP. (It
is not expected that explicit promotional efforts will be required among
Federal agencies, which have participated in developing the first three-
year population work plan and many of which, in any case, will already be
involved in implementing Phase I subprojects.) The efforts described above
will require project support for publication of promotional materials,
conduct of special workshops, and extensive field visits by DPA and PAPA
staff and consultants.
4.03      Guidelines for subprojects.  To permit broad responsiveness, it
is important not to overly structure in advance the nature of subprojects
that are qualified for financing from PAF. Nonetheless, it is necessary
7This responsibility will primarily rest with the Family Health Division,
which will receive support through Subproject 1 to promote the development
of proposals and their subsequent implementation by additional LGAs beyond
the original 22 covered by that subproject.



- 29 _
that some fairly clear-cut guidance on acceptable activities be provided to
those who are preparing or appraising proposals. In particular, to
encourage states and LGAs to develop the sort of comprehensive population
programs that will represent appropriate building blocks in the overall
N"P, special attention has been paid to development of. guidelines for state
and LGA proposals, drafts of which are at Annex 4-1.   While these drafts
have already been discussed with representatives of states during
appraisal, it has been agreed that they will undergo further review by
representative states and LGAs to ensure their suitability and
acceptability. At negotiations FGN gave assurances that prior to these or
similar guidelines being finalized or subsequently amended, they would be
agreed between DPAIPAFA and IDA.
4.04      iecbnical assistance and other support for preparation of
subproJect proposals. Because of the newness of NPP and the widespread
lack of experience in implementing population activities, most CAs will
require technical assistance in the preparation of their subproject
proposals. This will be one of the major services to be provided by
DPA/PAFA, but because of staffing limitations in DPA, PAPA, and other key
population-related units in FGN, considerable reliance will need to be
placed on local consultants to assist with preparation. Already over a
dozen local consultants in various fields have been involved in preparation
of the Phase I subprojects, many of whom could be used routinely by DPA and
PAPA. Additional consultants urgently need to be identified, however, and
therefore it is expected that DPA and PAFA would develop a roster of
qualified individuals and organizations available to assist Federal, state,
and local groups with subproject preparation. In some cases, promising
consultants may require special training or orientation to sharpen needed
skills. The project would finance, development of this roster, further
training of selected consultants, and the costs of deploying them for
subproject preparation work with CAs. It is estimated that 72 months of
local consulting inputs will be required for this and related purposes
during the life of the project. In addition, at the discretion of
DPAIPAFA, cash grants up to a maximum of US$5,000 equivalent would be
provided to potential applicants for covering the cost of various
additional preparation requirements.
4.05      Appraisal of subproiect proposals.  For Phase I subprojects,
major responsibility for appraisal has rested with IDA, but with DPA's
participation. This relationship will now alter significantly, with
DPAIPAFA, in association with other population-related units of 1GN, taking
the lead in appraising Phase II subprojects, but IDA will continue to
review selectively the proposals and DPA/PAFA's appraisals thereof,
especially for the initial Phase II subprojects (psra. 4.07). The
appraisal process to be followed by DPA/PAFA, which is modelled somewhat on
the Bank's own procedures, consists of five steps. First, an interested CA
will provide for initial review by DPA/PAFA a summary of the proposed
activities in the form of a Sub-project Brief. Second, on the basis of
this brief, DPAIPAFA will assess the basic appropriateness of the proposed
subproject and, as required, make major comaents on it for the guidance of
the CA. Third, the CA will prepare a more detailed proposal on the basis
of the appropriate guidelines (para. 4.03) with assistance, as required,
from DPAIPAFA-supplied preparation consultants or staff and/or from other



- 30 -
Federal agencies with competence in the area (para. 4.04). Fourth,
DPAIPAPA staff or consultants (not those who have assisted preparation),
along with relevant technical staff from other FGN agencies, will appraise
the proposal, taking into account, among other things, the key criteria
agreed with IDA (para. 3.05). Finally, DPA/PAFA will prepare its
recommendations, including an abbreviated Appraisal Report, for transmittal
to NCGPD and, in selected cases, to IDA (para. 4.07). A fuller account of
these procedures, still in draft form, is given in Annex 4-2. To minimize
delays during the processing of proposals, specific standards regarding the
internal processing of proposals will be established by PAPA. The overall
processing time is likely to vary considerably from case to case, however,
based on such factors as a CA's capabilities to formulate an acceptable
proposal and the complexity of its proposal. For small, focussed
activities, it should be possible to process a proposal and reach final
agreement in a few weeks.
4.06      Assessment of interest on the nart of other donors.  It is
expected that some donors will contribute funds to PAP, in which case
special rules for the allocation of their funds may need to be devised to
accommodate their special procurement requirements or for other reasons.
Other funding agencies, however, are likely to want to maintain direct
relationships with their grantees or for other reasons may be reluctant to
place their funds in PAP. Nonetheless, FON is eager to ensure that grant-
making agencies have rights of first refusal with regard to all subproject
proposals prior to committing borrowed funds to them. Therefore, PAFA will
establish a routine procedure to canvass all interested iunding agencies
during the course of subproject appraisal and will have to certify that
this has occurred prior to submission of its final recommendations for
approval. This, along with participation of other funding agencies in
direct financing of PAP, will considerably enhance PMHN's overall role in
donor coordination. In addition, however, a regular process of joint
consultation among DPA, PAFA, key CAs, and major donors, including the
Bank, is desirable to harmonize external Inputs to NPP. FON is in the
process of setting up such arrangements.
4.07     A&groval of subprojects.  The seven Phase I subprojects have, of
course, been agreed and approved as part of the normal process of credit
negotiations, Government approval of the negotiated documents, etc.
Specific procedures are required, however, for the orderly approval of
Phase TT subprojects during the life of the project. It would be
inappropriate to vest final approval authority in DPAJPA?A, at least for
larger subprojects, since they jointly are responsible for assistance with
preparation and appraisal of subproject proposals. The possibility of a
conflict of interest also arises from the fact that DPA is and PAPA will be
part of a line ministry--TRON--with major implementation responsibilities,
which means that PMOH, along with other bodies in the health sector, is a
likely major recipient of grants from PAP. Therefore, a separate high-
level body with broad representation and patent neutrality must be involved
in giving final approval for use of PAF resources. To this end, FGN has
decided to vest responsibility for oversight of PAP in the newly
established NCGPD (para. 2.21), specifically in a subcommittee thereof to
be known as the PAP Management Committee (PAPMC). It was agreed at
negotiations that the establishment of PAPHC would be a condition of



- 31 -
effectiveness. In spite of the above consideraticons, it vould be
inefficient for PAFMC to have to approve every subproject, especially those
involving relatively small budgets. Therefore, FGN gave assurances at
negotiations that the following three approval levels would be implemented:
(a) approval of all subprojects with estimated total costs equivalent to
US$100 000 or less (with a cumulative total for the life of the project of
US$2 mi.lion equivalent) to be delegated to DPA/PAFAs (b) all subprojects
with estimated total costs between US$100,000 and US$500,000 equivalent to
be approved by PAPMC without soeeing IDA's prior concurrence (with a
cumulative total for the life of the project of US$10 million); and (c) all
subprojects with estimated total costs equivalent to US$500,000 or more to
receive IDA's prior concurrence. Notwithstanding the above limits, it is
was further agreed that the first three Phase II subprojects would be
subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, all subprojects not otherwise
reviewed by IDA would be subject to ex post review in the field by IDA
missions.
4.08      Execution of subproject agreements.  Simple subproject
agreements will need to be entered into between PAPA and each CA before
funds can be released from PAP. These agreements will need to specify such
things as the subproject objectives, a procurement plan, and agreed
indicators for assessing its progress and effectiveness. The agreements
would also clearly state the obligations of the implementing CAs regarding,
among other things, limitation of the use of funds to incremental
activities and expenditures, provision of counterpart funds, adherence to
specific procurement procedures (para. 4.17), establishment of basic
accounting procedures, conduct of annual audits, and preparation of brief
annual narrative and financial reports. The adequacy of these agreements
is important to Government and IDA, however, since about 831 of the Credit
will be disbursed through PAP. In this regard, it was agreed at
negotiations that (a) a prototype agreement, which would include certain
agreed elements, is to be included as part of the manual of detailed PAP
procedures that is to be prepared as a condition of disbursement for PAP
(para. 3.05); and (b) as a condition of disbursement from PAP for any
particular subproiect, a properly executed subproject agreement will have
been executed with the implementing CA. Any special costs associated with
the preparation of such agreements are included in the budget for PAPA's
management of the fund.
4.09      Supervision of subproiects.  DPAIPAFA will also have to
supervise subproject implementation, especially to ensure that funds
granted from PAP are being used efficiently and in accordance with the
subproject agreements and to provide needed technical support during
implementation. In the absence of an extensive financial management
apparatus in PM0O and in view of the complex disbursement activities
involved vith a number of subprojects under implementation simultaneously,
PAPA will develop its own strong Finance Section. An Initial installment
equal to 10? of the anticipated subproject financing from the PAP (5t in
the case of subprojects with estimated total costs equivalent to US$1
million or more) will be provided to CAs for "mobilization, purposes.
Thereafter, periodic payments will be made to CAs on the basis of
submission to PAPA of receipts and other acceptable documentation on
subproject progress. In the rare occasions where payments need to be made



- 32 -
in foreign exchange, upon application from CAs, direct payments will be
made to suppliers from the special account, which will be maintained in
foreign exchange (para. 4.19). For other aspects of subproject
supervision, between various DPA branches and various technical bodies at
the Federal level there will be persons available with many of the
technical skills required to supervise subprojects. Nonetheless,
especially as the work load grows over time, some consultants will be
required to supplement existing staff. Funds are included for these
consultants and also for an average of two visits annually by two or three
DPA/PAFA or other FGN staff members and/or consultants to each subproject
beiisg implemented outside of Lagos.
4.10      Project time frame.  It is assumed that the project will be
implemented over a seven-year period (July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1998), with
an additional six months required to complete disbursements. Since
subprojects would be approved for initial implementation periods of up to
three years (para. 3.05), the final round of major Phase II subprojects
would need to start well in advance of project closing. Specifically, with
a seven-year implementation period, major new subprojects could be
developed and approved during the first four years of the project, i.e., up
until mid-1995 at the latest. Nonetheless, there must be flexibility to
accommodate shorter subprojects later than this. In addition, follow-on
aspects of Phase I subprojects, which initially are being approved for a
maximum of three years, could be developed and initiated near the end of
this period. Therefore, at negotiations FGN gave an assurance that within
three years of the completion date (i.e., after June 30, 1995) all proposed
new subprojects will be carefully scrutinized by DPA/PAFA to ensure that
only those that can be readily completod within the remaining time prior to
project completion are accepted for financing. In view of the above, if
continuation of PAP and its replenishment are justified, a follow-on
operation should commence around the middle of 1995 in order that a
pipeline of major new subprojects could continue to be processed without a
gap. (The project time frame is presented graphically at Annex 4-3.)
Institutional Arrangements for Project Management
4.11      Roles of DPA and PAPA in proiect management.  As is obvious from
the proceeding section (paras. 4.02-4.10), successful implementation of the
project is highly dependent upon an effective system for management of the
entire subproject cycle. Such a system also, however, has to fit into and
make maximum use of existing structures. After considerable internal
debate, FGN has decided to set up PAPA as an agency under PMR with nine
senior staff to manage primarily the financial side of PAP and at the same
time to strengthen DPA, through the addition of six professional staff, to
manage the technical side of PAP operations, which are closely related to
DPA's overall role in planning and coordination of NPP. Organigrams
showing the proposed adjustments in the structure of DPA, the planned
structure of PAPA, and the functional relationships between them are given
at Annex 4-4.  The basic arrangements are as followss (a) subproject
promotion, preparation, and screening or preliminary assessment will take
place under the leadership of DPA, but will entail the collaboration of the
financial specialists and other staff of PAPA; (b) overall responsibility
for this phase will rest with the Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research



_ 33 -
Division of DPA, where a new Assistant Director vill be given full-time
responsibility for management of PAP-related activities, but          I
responsibilities for development of specific subprojects will be parcelled
out to the appropriate technical divisions of DPA (Services, IEC, and
Population and Development), each of which will gain a new section chief
for this purpose; (c) a joint DPA-PAFA subcommittee will consider and
approve smaller subprojects, while larger ones will be put forward for
consideration by PAFMC, on which the DPA Director and PAF Manager will both
sit; (d) all financial aspects, including seeking additional funding from
international agencies, will be the responsibility of PAFA, to which the
International Liaison Branch of DPA will be transferred; and (e)
supervision of subprojects will be undertaken jointly by DPA, which will
focus on the technical side, and PAPA, which will focus on the financial
side. The draft statement of basic fund operational principles, as
presented by FGN at negotiations, is given at Annex 4-5. Besides
additional staff, other requirements that have been identified for
effective management of PAF by PAFA and DPA include, as noted above (paras.
4.02-4.09), various forms of consultancies, staff development, workshops
and other promotional activities, materials, vehicles, office furniture and
equipment, and incremental operating expenses, especially local travel.
The early recruitment of a full-time manager of PAF would greatly
accelerate the further refinement of procedures and documents on PAP
operations and recruitment of staff, both of which need to occur as soon as
possible after negotiations. Therefore, it was agreed at appraisal that an
interim manager of PAF would be appointed to assist with preparations for
negotiations. Funded by UNFPA, a senior Nigerian administrator was
recruited by FMH for this purpose in March 1990. At negotiations it was
agreed that the appointment of a full-time, permanent manager of PAF, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectivehess. Under the leadership of the interim manager and then
subsequently of the permanent PAF manager, FMOH would also prepare a
detailed statement of PAP procedures (paras. 4.07 and 4.08), and would
recruit four additional key staff for PAFA, which it was agreed would be
conditions of disbursement for Phase I subprolects8. Finally, to permlt
DPA to fulfill its functions in subproject promotion, preparation, and
technical supervision, several major gaps in middle level management need
to be addressed. To this end, it was agreed at negotiations that creation
and filling of five key positions in DPA would be a condition of
disbursement from PAP for Phase II subprojects9.
8The four PAPA positions the filling of which would constitute one of the
conditions of disbursement for Phase I subprojects ares Chief Finance
Officer, Chief Programe Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, and
Internal Auditor.
9The specific DPA positions the filling of which would constitute one of
the conditions of disbursement for Phase II subprojects ares Deputy
Director and Assistant Director for Monitoring, Evaluation and Research and
three Section Chiefs in the Services, IEC, and Population and Development
Branches.



- 34 -
4.12      Roles of CAs in subproject management.  The basic responsibility
for management of subprojects will rest with CAs with which agreements will
have been executed. Within the terms of its agreement, each CA will
undertake procurement and expend funds from its subproject account. Each
CA will also provide to DPA an annual narrative and financial report and a
simple work program for the coming year.
4.13      Management of the Population Research Fund (PRY).  Overall
management of PRF will be undertaken by the Nigerian Institute of Social
and Economic Research (NISER), which is a parastatal organization under the
Office of the President. A special unit, consisting initially of three
professional staff, will be established in NISER for day-to-day management
of PRF; it will be linked to the Population Research Unit, which, in turn,
reports directly to the NISER Director-General. It has been agreed that an
interim manager for PRF will be appointed by early 1991 to begin working
out the detailed procedures for operation of PRP and to draft a work plan
for the first year, the preparation of which, as stated in para. 3.14, was
agreed as a condition of disbursement for PRF. Operation of the PRF
management unit, including additional administrative and other support
staff, will be financed through the project, as will be the purchase of
computers, office equipment, and a vehicle. It has been agreed, subject to
ratification by NCGPD, that general oversight of PR? will be vested in a
subcommittee to be set up under NCGPD. It is anticipated that this
subcommittee would be chaired by the Minister of Health and would have
about eight members, including the Director-General of NISER. Specific
research proposals to be funded from PRF will be reviewed in quarterly
meetings of the PRY Technical Committee, which will be chaired by the head
of NISER's Population Research Unit and will consist, at a minimum, or
representatives of DPA, PAPA, NPC, and FMOR's Department of Planning,
Research, and Statistics. To represent NGOs working in population, the
Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria is also expected to serve on this
technical committee. Authority to approve individual research grants and
other PR? activities will be vested in the NCGPD research subcommittee,
based on recommendations from the PR? Technical Committee. It is
anticipated, however, that approval of grants and activities under a
certain amount would be delegated to the PRF management unit in NISER.
(Prior concurrence from IDA would be required before research grants/
contracts and other activities equivalent to US$25,000 or more are
recommended to the NCGPD research subcommittee--para. 4.17.) Details on
the roles of and relationship among these two committees and the PRF unit
in RISER will be included in the write-up that is being prepared by the
interim PR? manager.
Proiect Monitoring and Reporting
4.14      Proiect monitoring and evaluation.  DPAIPAFA and each CA will
agree on several simple indicators that will be used by all parties to
monitor the progress of each subproject. These will necessarily vary
greatly from one type of subproject to the next. To the extent such
indicators have been worked out already for the Phase I subprojects, they
appear in the separate write-ups on each subproject (Annexes 3-4 through 3-
10). Other indlcators will be devised by DPA and PAPA, in agreement with
IDA, to monitor the overall utilization and management of PAP, *.g., draw-



- 35 -
downs as a percentage of commitments, the geographic and institutional
spread of subprojects, and processing times. Specific indicators are to be
included in the basic PAP operational procedures that will be prepared as a
condition of disbursement. Subprojects will, of course, have their own
objectives, many of which will relate to measurable impact, e.g., increased
levels of PP practice. Hence, overall evaluation of the project could in
one sense consist of the aggregate impact evaluation of the subprojects.
In practice, however, the dispersed nature of the CAs, e.g., individual
LGAs scattered across the country, will make it difficult or expensive to
use most conventional measurement tools such as contraceptive prevalence
surveys (CPSs). To the extent possible, however, various direct or
indirect measures of impact will be used with the active involvement of
NPC, which is experimenting in particular with the development just for
this purpose of the Sentinel Survey System under Subproject 6. Difficult
as it is, monitoring of impact must nonetheless be given high priority
since part of the function of this project is to help determine workable
and cost effective interventions for wider application. At a more global
level, the success of this first project will rest less, however, on the
demographic or other impact of the individual subprojects and more on the
extent to which it provides effective guidance, a stronger institutional
base, and greater and broader social support for the much more intensive
and wider implementation of NPP in subsequent stages of its evolution.
These measures of success are, however, largely subjective. In view of the
experimental nature of PAF and the inexperience of many CAs, IDA and any
other funding agencies helping to finance PAF will need to pay particularly
close attention to overall project implementation, devoting far more than
the average resources for this purposel0. While various indicators and
other measures will be of some help in this regard, effective project
monitoring will require concentrated first hand reviews with DPA/PAFA,
including field visits to representative subprojects. In addition, more
formalized consultative meetings are highly desirable. Therefore, at
negotiations FGN gave assurances that it vould organize annual consultative
meetings among DPA, PAPA, NISER, the main implementing CAs, IDA, and other
interested funding agencies, at which time, among other things, reports on
the previous year's performance would be discussed. The FGN also gave
assurances at negotiations to undertake jointly with IDA and any other
participating donors a formal Mid-term Review no later than three years
after Credit Effectiveness. This would permit identification of needed
adjustments in procedures for the operation of PAF and in guidelines for
subprojects after about two year's experience with both Phase I and II
subprojects, but before the final two to three years' subprojects have been
initiated (para. 4.10). It would also review the possible need for further
actions to strengthen FHOH's capacity to manage the project.
4.15      Proiect reportina.  Based on the reports that it receives from
the CAs, DPA/PAFA will compile for NCGPD and IDA an annual narrative report
on overall project progress. In addition, PAPA will prepare annual
financial reports on the status of PAP and on its and DPA's operations in
1OThe first concrete step in this direction was the appointment in early
1990 of a full-time senior population specialist with extensive experience
in Africa to the Bank's resident mlssion in Lagos.



- 36 -
managing PAP. MISER will prepare similar reports with regard to the
operation of PRF. Such reports will be prepared sufficiently in advance to
be discussed at the annual consultative meetings (para. 4.14). Finally, by
30 September of each year. DPA and PAFA will prepare for submission to
NCGPD, IDA, and other participating donors for comment their combined work
program for the coming fiscal year, including projected disbursements from
PAP and other financial requirements. A similar annual work program for
PRF will be prepared by NISER for submission to the research subcommittee
of NCGPD and IDA for comment. At negotiations FGN gave assurances
regarding the timely preparation by DPAIPAPA and NISER of these annual work
programs for submission to IDA.
C. Procurement
4.16      General framework for procurement under the proiect.  The
proposed project has several features that affect the nature of the
proposed procurement arrangements. Among these are the fact that
implementation will be carried out by up to 80 different bodies scattered
across the country, that these groups will be initiating implementation
anytime during the first five or six years of the project, and that
currently the size and nature of Phase II subprojects is not known since,
of course. they are yet to be identified and appraised. In view of the
above, the proposed procurement arrangements under this project are similar
to those used in sectoral lending in related fields such as health and
education, especially as they apply to Phase II subprojects (para. 4.17).
The basic framework for procurement under the project would be as followss
(a) Civil works contracts estimated to cost:
(i) over US$200,000 equivalent will be procured in accordance
with international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures;
(ii) over US$50,000 equivalent up to US$200,000 equivalent will
be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures; and
(iii) US$50,000 or less will be procured through shopping or
direct contracting based on a minimum of three written
bids.
(b) Packages of vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials, supplies,
or other goods estimated to costs
(i) over US$100,000 equivalent will be procured in accordance
with ICB procedures;
(ii) over US$50,000 equivalent up to US$100,000 equivalent will
be procured through LCB procedures; and
(iii) US$50,000 or less will be procured through shopping or
direct contracting based on a minimum of three written
bids;



- 37 _
(c)  Journalsll, contraceptive devices or materials that are still
*mder patent and for which no appropriate substitutes are
available, and spare parts for existing equipment or vehicles
that are only available from a sole source may be procured
directly in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines;
(d)  All consultants will be selected in accordance with IDA's
guidelines; and
(e) All payments of costs for training, fellowships, study tours,
studies, incremental salaries, allowances for travel, and other
operating costs will be through the normal procedures of each
implementing agency.
All procurement would be from qualified sources and in accordance with
IDA's procurement guidelines. In ICB procurement, a margin of domestic
preference not exceeding 15, depending upon the applicable customs duties
and taxes, would be permitted in bid evaluation for domestically produced
goods (which is defined as those goods having at least 20Z value added
within Nigeria). In all cases of ICB procurement, the draft bidding
documents and proposed contract awards would require IDA's prior review.
LCB procedures will, among other things, incorporate explicit statements to
bidders of the evaluation and award criteria, with awards being made to the
lowest evaluated bidder; will be broadly advertised in local newspapers;
and will not preclude foreign bidders from participating. In the interests
of economy and efficiency, consolidation of procurement will be carried out
to the extent practicable and in particular for two key types of equipment
as follows: (i) in the case of standard medical and related equipment
required for the provision of PP services through LGA and state health
facilities, bulking of each year's requirements will be carried out and
centralized procurement undertaken by FHD using FMOH's procurement staff;
and (ii) similar centralized procurement will be undertaken by HEB on
behalf of LGAs and states with regard to the procurement of audio-visual
equipment. In addition, the requirements for PAFA and DPA, which in many
cases are very similar, will be combined to the extent possible and
procured jointly.
4.17      Specific requirements with retard to procurement by DPA, PAFA,
NISER, and CAs. Procurement of goods and services by DPA and PAPA for
their use in management of PAF, by NISER for its management of PRF, and by
(or on behalf of) CAs carrying out Phase I subprojects would be subject to
the above procurement arrangements, but certain cumulative limits would be
applied as follows:
(a) For PAFA and DPA jointly, the aggregate limit for shopping would
be US$500,000 equivalent, and for LCB, US$l million equivalent;
llThe large number of books for the DPA technical library should not,
however, be procured directly from the publishers, but by requesting
interested dealers, under ICB procedures, to indicate the highest possible
overall discount they would provide from list prices.



. 38 -
(b) For NISER, the aggregate limit for shopping would be US$150,000
equivalents and
(c) For all seven CAs combined during implementation of Phase I
subprojects, the combined aggregate limit for shopping would be
US$2 million equivalent, and for LCB, US$4 million equivalent.
For both Phase I and Phase II subprojects, all applicable procurement
arrangements outlined in para. 4.16 will be spelled out in the subproject
agreements entered into between PAPA and the implementing CA. Review by
IDA would focus, in the first instance, on the adequacy of the procurement
sections of these agreements, which for all subprojects with budgets
totalling US$500,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA's prior
concurrence (para. 4.07). (Such subprojects are estimated to represent
over US$56 million in disbursements or about 85S of IDA financing for PAP.)
PAPA will develop standard ICB and LCB bidding documents for the use of CAs
as well as by itself and DPA, which will be subject to IDA's concurrence
prior to their use. In addition, each first contract to be awarded by
PAFA, DPA, NISER, or a CA, regardless of its size and type of procurement
used, would be subject to prior review by IDA. Finally, during its
supervision of subproject implementation, PAPA will monitor procurement by
CAs to ensure that they are adherl4g to the agreed procurement
arrangements, including the aggrejate limits for Phase I subprojects given
above. Grants awarded to univeriities and other research institutes under
PERF will normally not require t ,e competitive presentation of proposals,
but all awards equivalent to US$25,000 or more will be subject to prior
concurrence by IDA. The aggregate limit of such research grantslcontracts
that may be concluded without IDA's prior review would be US$1,500,000
equivalent or such other amount as shall be agreed during implementation.
Supplies or materials required by PRP grantees for the conduct of their
research activities would be procured using local competitive shopping with
a minimum of three price quotations, the requirement for which would be
reflected in the agreements between them and NISER. The different
arrangements are summarized below:



- 39 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Procurement Method
Project Elements       ICB     LCB   Shopping   Other       NA     Total
-------- (US$ Million) ----- --
A. Procurement by PAPAIDPAs
Vehicles, Equipment, Fur-
niture, Materials, and
Supplies                 2.3     1.0      0.5       0.4        -      4.2
(2.2)   (0.9)    (0.4)    (0.3)              (3.8)
Consultancy Services,
Training, Fellow-
ships, Studies, and
Preparation Grants        -       -        -        1.2       0.8     2.0
(1.2)     (0.8)   (2.0)
Incremental Salaries,
Program Support,
and Other Operating
Costs                     -       -        -         -        6.0     6.0
-         -        -        -        (2.5)   (2.5)
Subtotals                   2.3     1.0      0.5       1.6       6.8    12.2
(2.2)   (0.9)    (0.4)    (1.5)      (3.3)   (8.3)
B. Procurement by NISER
Computers, Office Equip-
ment, and a Vehicle       -       -       0.1        -         -       0.1
(0.1)                       (0.1)
C. Procurement by CAs
(Phase I Suborojects)t
Civil Works                  -      7.0      0.9        -         _       7.9
(5.9)    (0.8)                       (6.7)
Vehicles, Equipment, Fur-
niture, Materials, and
Supplies                 4.5     4.0      1.1        -         -      9.6
(3.8)   (3.5)    (0.9)                       (8.2)
Consultancy Services,
Training, Fellow-
ships, and Studies        -       -        -        0.6      11.5    12.1
(0.6)     (9.7)  (10.3)



- 40 -
Procurement Method
Prolect Elements      ICB     LCB   Shoaning   Other       NA     Total
-_----------  (US$ Million) -----------
Incremental Salaries,
Program Support,
and Other Operating
Costs                    -       -        -         -        9.8     9.8
-     -        -        -        (8.2)   (8.2)
Subtotals                  4.5    11.0       2.0      0.6      21.3    39.4
(3.8)   (9.4)    (1.7)    (0.6)    (17.9)  (33.4)
Totals for A-C             6.8    12.0      2.6       2.2      28.1    51.7
(6.0)  (10.3)    (2.2)    (2.1)    (21.2)  (41.8)
D. Procurement by CAs
(Phase II Subproiects
and PRF Grants):         *       *        *         *         *     41.9
(36.7)
GRAND TOTAL                                                            93.6
(78.5)
Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Credit, which
include contingencies, but exclude duties and taxes.
*Allocations for various types of procurement will only be known as
specific Phase II subprojects are prepared and appraised during the course
of project implementation.
D. Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements under this project will largely be linked to
subproject agreements with allocations and percentages varying by type of
implementing CA. The amounts allocated to the four subcategories under
Category 2 are derived from projections of the extent different types of
CAs would be interested in undertaking subprojects and the likely size of
those subprojects (para. 3.16). In actual practice, some reallocation
between subcategories will probably be required, but in the interest of
encouraging lower levels of Government and NGOs to participate more
actively in NPP, a strong case would need to be made in particular for
reallocation of much higher amounts for Federal agencies' subprojects
(Category 2(a)). Disbursements to PAPA and DPA for costs of managing PAP
will following standard arrangements. Disbursements under PRP will be for
1002 of all expenditures, except in the case of modest amounts of equipment
etc. being procured by NISER for use in its management of PRF. The
Disbursement Schedule agreed at negotiations is as follows:



- 41 -
Summary Disbursement Schedule
Amount of the      Percentage of Expen-
Category                  Credit Allocated      ditures to be Financed
(US$ Millions)
1. Phase I Subprojects Fi-
nanced from PAF                   24.5        100o  up to 851 of the total
cost of a subproject
2. Phase II Subprolects Fi-
nanced from PAF
a. Federal Gov't. Agencies,       12.2       1OOZ up to 8S  of the total
including Parastatals                     cost of a subproject
b. State Governments               9.2       1OOS up to 85S  of the total
cost of a subproject
c. Local Governments               7.1       1001 up to 901 of the total
cost of a subproject
d. Non-Governmental Orgs.          1.0       1001 up to 951 of the total
cost of a subproject
3. PAFA for Management of PAF Operations
a. Equipment, Vehicles, Furni-    0.5        1002 of foreign expenditures
ture, Supplies, & Materials               & 851 of local expenditures
b. Consultancy Services, Train-   0.5        1001 of expenditures
ing, & Study Tours
c. Salaries, Travel, and Other    1.7        1001 of expenditures
Operating Costs
4. DPA for Suport of PAF Operations
a. Equipment, Vehicles, Furni-    2.3        1001 of foreign expenditures
ture, Supplies, & Materials               & 851 of local expenditures
b. Consultancy Services, Train-   0.9        1001 of expenditures
ing, Study Tours, & Prepara-
tion Grants to CAs
5. PRF Operations by NISER
a. Research Sub-contracts,         3.9       1002 of expenditures
Workshops, & Admin. Costs



- 42 -
Amount of the     Percentage of Expen-
CategorY                Credit Allocated   ditures to be Pinanced
(US$ Mil:ions)
b. Computers Equipment & Vehicles 0.1        100X of foreign expenditures
& 85S of local expenditures
6. Unallocated                       14.6
Total Credit Amount               78.5
Standard profiles (both sectoral and country) array disbursements over an
eight-year period, which has been basically applied in projecting
disbursements for this project at Annex 4-6, implying a project closing
date of December 31, 1998. In view, however, of the anticipated early
establishment of the two special accounts and of the simultaneous
initiation of activities by seven different agencies responsible for Phase
I subprojects, slight modifications were made in the profile for this
project during the first several years. Withdrawal applications for
categories 1-4 will be submitted to IDA by PAPA; for category 5, by NISER.
Whenever possible, withdrawal applications will be grouped into packages of
at least US$50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications with regard to
categories 3, 4, and 5 will be fully documented except for contracts below
US$75,000 equivalent, where certified statements of expenditures (SOEs)
would be acceptable. With regard to subprojects funded out of PAP
(categories 1 and 2), all disbursements for contracts equivalent to
US$500,000 or less will be on the basis of SOEs certified by PAFA. In the
case of SOEs, PAPA or NISER will be responsible for holding the supporting
documentation for review by the auditors and by IDA missions.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.19      Special accounts.  Two special accounts will be established
under the project, both denominated in U.S. dollars. The first, the PAP
Special Account, will be used for disbursements of IDA funds to CAs
implementing subprojects and for qualified expenditures by PAPA and DPA for
administration of PAF. The second, the PRP Special Account, will be used
by NISER to finance PRF activities. The initial deposits by IDA into these
two accounts will be, respectively, US$2.5 million and US$500,000, which
are equivalent to estimated expenditures over three months.
4.20      Proiect account.  In addition, a project account will be
established by PAPA for deposit, on a quarterly basis in advance, of FGN's
counterpart funds for PAP and for PAPA's and DPA's operations. Although
this is a multi-agency project, all of PON's counterpart contributions will
be channelled through PMOH, which is the host ministry for PAP, into this
single account. At negotiations the initial deposit into this account of
MS million was agreed as a condition of credit effectiveness. PON



- 43 -
furthermore gave assurances that it will make subsequent quarterly deposits
into the project account in accordance with the estimated requirements of
the project. (No project account is required in the case of PRP as IDA
will be disbursing against 1002 of virtually all the expenditures under
this component of the project.)
4,21      Financial and management audits.  PAFA and NISER will be
responsible for maintaining accounts in accordance with generally accepted
accounting procedures. These accounts will be subject to annual audits by
qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors will be
expected to state separate opinions with regard to the use of SOEs. In
addition, the auditor will be expected to undertake a broad management
audit of PAPA's and DPA's operations. The audit report for a given fiscal
year is to be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the close of
that year.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      Benefits for the public.  Ultimately the wide practice of PP in
Nigerian society, accompanied by reduced levels of fertility, will lead to
extremely important benefits for individuals, families, and their
communities. Improved welfare and a higher standard of living is the
basic, long-range goal of NPP. It will, however, undoubtedly require a
number of years, even decades, to have significant impact on a broad basis
due to the newness of the program and the strong socio-cultural supports
for high fertility. Consequently, this first population project financed
by the Bank in Nigeria, while helping increase contraceptive prevalence in
selected areas, will at best have only a modest impact on fertility in
those areas. For some individuals and families in the areas where IEC and
FP services will be strengthened or expanded through one or more of the
subprojects, there will, in other words, be an Impact on their health and
well-being. The magnitude of this impact will depend upon people's
responsiveness to the program, the extent of which remains to be seen.
Indeed, an important objective of the project is just that--to see what
works as a basis for a much expanded effort in the future. But one must
bear in mind that at the same time the program and project are helping some
individuals to reduce their fertility, other forces in the society will
continue to dissolve traditional constraints on fertility such as
breastfeeding and prolonged postpartum abstinence. Hence, for a few years
the best NPP may be able to do, at least in some areas, is to maintain
overall fertility rates roughly at their present levels, rates that in the
absence of the program would otherwise continue increasing.
5.02      Benefits for NPP.  While the imediste benefits for the public
of this first project might be limited, it has considerable potential for
generating longer term benefits by assisting NPP to get off to an effective
start. Specifically, the project will help strengthen the nascent NPP in
at least seven ways. First, it will greatly strengthen the capabilities
and credibility of the central coordinating body for the program, DPA.
Second, it will enable NPP to test a number of interventions for potential



- 44 -
future application on a broader basis. Third, learning from some of the
shortcomings in other African population programs, it focusses major
attention on finding solutions to critical socio-cultural constraints to
fertility reduction. Fourth, the funding mechanism devised will accelerate
the development of decentralized and localized approaches to fertility
control, including vital community-based efforts. Fifth, the Phase I
subproJects place considerable emphasis on generating broad support among
leadership groups and the public at large for NPP and understanding of its
long-term requirements for adequate finance etc. Sixth, the project
promotes use of NGOs, the neglect of which has been another failing of many
African programs in their early stages. Finally, the project will help
improve donor coordination, giving Nigeria more direct control over
external resources for its program.
B. Risks and Safeguards
5.03      Without question this project has a greater than average level
of risk associated with it in spite of the various steps that are being
taken to reduce various specific risks. In general terms, the program is
new, the institutions to manage it are new, and the interventions being
implemented are based more on lessons from elsewhere than on solid local
experience. Nonetheless, during project preparation, actions to reduce the
impact of five specific risks were identified as follows:
(a) Strong socio-cultural support for fertility. More than those in
any other developing region, African societies are permeated
with strong social and cultural supports for large families. In
Nigeria these are widely reinforced by conservative religious
values, with over half of the population being either Islamic or
Catholic. Myny of these traditional supports for large families
are less relevant nowadays because of recent social, economic,
or demographic changes, but to develop widespread appreciation
of their implications requires considerable emphasis on IEC
activities for the general public and for specific leadership
groups such as religious and traditional leaders. This the
project endeavors to do, although the culturally most
appropriate approaches are still not necessarily clear.
Consequently, the project also places strong emphasis, through
major support for PRF, on developing improved understanding of
the socio-cultural dynamics effecting fertility and of practical
ways to tackle the constraints as their workings are understood.
(b)  Ambivalence among staff and policy makers.  As a part of the
larger society, many program implementors, especially junior
level health staff, and many policy makers, who must give the
program strong support if it is to succeed, are themselves
ambivalent about the program's fertility reduction aims. Strong
IEC and training efforts that include content relevant to the
sources of these misgivings are required. This the project also
emphasizes, although the most effective messages still need to
be determained.



- 45 -
(c) The upcoming political transition. An important change that is
likely to impact on all development efforts In Nigeria, albeit
in very unpredictable ways, is the transition to civilian rule
over the next several years. The country's ambitious population
policy was developed, of course, during the period of military
rule, which has been very comfortable with technocratic
approaches. Civilian politicians are less likely to give high
priority to an interventionist population policy, which normally
would have a limited constituency and few visible short-term
results.  To reduce the impact of the transition to civilian
rule, it is imperative to institutionalize NPP solidly, which
the project is designed to do in various ways. In addition, the
strong emphasis on IEC activities to reach elites and various
leadership groups will help develop needed support among key
constituencies.
(d) Possible ineffectiveness of program management. Overall
coordination of NPP and direct management of PAP will seriously
challenge FMOH, which still has limited staffing in population
and is still engaged in efforts to get DPA off to an effective
start. Slnce appraisal, a growing effort has oeen underway
among the donors to help PMOH spell out actions that will
strengthen DPA and develop its sense of mission. To compensate
for shortages in staff, the project includes ample resources for
local consultants, which PMOH has a proven ability to utilize
effectively. Should the level of financing allocated for this
purpose prove insufficient, additional funds could be readily
reallocated. During implementation, IDA missions, which will
need to be more intensively staffed and more frequent than for
an average project, will work closely with PAPA and DPA. In
addition, the project provides for focussed annual reviews
involving DPA, PAPA, major CAs, IDA, and other donors as well as
a thorough Kid-term Review.
(e) Inadequacy of budgetary support. During the present period of
fiscal stringency and reduced public sector budgets, a new
program, regardless of its merits and urgency, is particularly
hard pressed to obtain adequate resources. There is already
evidence that this is a constraint for NPP. Not only is there a
likely short-term problem in generat3-' sufficient counterpart
financing, but the longer term sustainability of the activities
launched under the project is also at stake. To help with the
short-term needs, it is intended to increase IDA's share of
project financing to a higher than normal level of about 851.
This would, in turn, permit even higher proportions of support
for subprojects being implemented by organizations or levels of
government with particularly constrained resources, e.g., NGOs
and LGAs. In addition, one subproject is being undertaken by
the Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning to increase
appreciation for the importance of population factors and NPP
among planning and budgeting operations throughout the
Federation. This should generate better understanding of NPP's
financial requirements among key decision makers. Finally, it



- 46 -
is essential that the bank's overall dialogue with the Nigerian
Government keep population matters and NPP's needs high on the
agenda, addressing them frequently and thoroughly in CEMs, PERs,
senior management visits, etc.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.01      During negotiations FGN gave assurances regarding the followings
(a) That in the identification, preparation, appraisal, and approval
of Phase II subprojects to be financed through PAF, NCGPD, and
DPA (acting as NCGPD's secretariat), PAPA would agree with IDA
each year on the list of subproject topics acceptable for PAP
financing, based on the annually updated three-year rolling plan
for NPP (para. 3.03); that the following additional criteria
would be applied to subprojectss (i) limitation of the initial
commitment of funding for a subproject to a maximum of three
years; (ii) inclusion of some IEC activities in all service
delivery subprojects; (iii) clear linkage of any state's
subproject to activities at the LGA level; and (iv) reservation
of at least 31 of the funds in PAP for Phase II subprojects to
finance those developed by NGOs (para. 3.05); and that the
general subproject guidelines, as they are developed and agreed
between PAPAIDPA and IDA from time to time, would also be
applied (para. 4.03);
(b) That the differential percentages for cost sharing with
different types of CAs, as agreed at negotiations, would be
applied to all subproject agreements (para. 3.17);
(c) That the following approval levels for subprojects would be
applieds (i) delegation of authority to PAPA/DPA to approve
subprojects with estimated total costs equivalent to US$100,000
or less (with a cumulative total of US$2 million equivalent),
(ii) approval by NCGPD (or by PAPMC) of other subprojects with
total estimated costs up to US$500,000 equivalent vithout
advanced concurrence from IDA (with a cumulative total of US$10
million equivalent), and (iii) concurrence for all other
projects by IDA prior to their submission to NCGPD and for the
first three Phase 1U subprojects regardless of the above limits
(para. 4.07);
Cd) That vithin three years of the anticipated completion date, all
proposed new subprojects or extensions will be carefully
scrutinized by DPA and PAPA to ensure that only those that can
be readily completed within the remaining project period are
accepted for financing (para. 4.10);
(e) That annual project review meetings will be organized involving
DPA, PAPA, NISER, major CAs, IDA, and other interested funding



- 47 -
agencies and that Government will jointly undertake with IDA a
thorough Kid-Term Review of the project no later than three
years after Credit effectiveness (para. 4.14);
(f)  That by September of each year PAPA and DPA will prepare their
joint work programs for the coming year, including projected
disbursements from PAP, and that MISER will prepare its work
program for PRF, both of which will then be submitted to IDA for
comments (para. 4.15); and
(g)  That it wall make quarterly deposits of its counterpart
contributions into the project account in accordance with the
estimated requirements of the project (para. 4.20).
B. Conditions
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness.  The following conditions of
credit effectiveness were agreed with FGN at negotiationst
(a)  Establishment of PAFA (para. 3.04);
(b)  Establishment of the subcommittee of NCGPD (PAPHC) to which
authority would be granted to approve subventions from PAP and
that would also provide overall supervision of PAP operations
(para. 4.07);
(c) Appointment of a permanent full-time manager of PAF on terms and
conditions and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.11); and
(d)  Establishment of the project account and making of the initial
deposit of H5 mlllion into it (para. 4.20).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement.  The following conditions of
disbursement were agreed with FGN at negotiations:
(a) As conditions of disbursement for Phase I subprojects from PAF
(Category 1):
ti) Adoption by PGN of a mamual of detailed operational
procedures for PAP, acceptable to IDA (para. 3.05);
(ii) In the case of each particular subproject, signing of a
subproject agreement (para. 4.08); and
(iii) Recruitment of four additional staff (or long-term
consultants) for key posts in PAPA on ters and conditions
and with qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.11).
(b) As conditions of disbursement for Phase II subprojects from PAF
(Category 2)s



- 48 -
(1)  Preparation by FGN of a plan acceptable to IDA for the
systematic development of state-level population planming
and coordination capabilities parallel to DPA's role at
the Federal level (para. 4.02); and
(ii)  Establishment of the necessary positions and recruitment
of five additional key upper and middle level management
staff for DPA with qualifications satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.11).
(c) As a condition of disbursoment for PRF (Category 5), development
of detailed operational procedures acceptable to IDA as well as
the first year's work program (para. 3.14).
6.04      In addition, at negotiations a Supervision Plan was agreed for
this project. It appears at Annex 6-1.
C. Recommendation
6.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR S4.2 million (US$78.5 million) to the
Federal Republic of Nigeria.
AF4PH
April 2, 1991



NItEtA: KATtAWAL POPtLATtON PROJECT
Csrattv. Pouulatloa IndIcator. toe Nlo.rla *nd Solctod CoumtetI..I
lfph8im                                      .t maried
G;" of                            Ctw  Wrth  P*rt          veso of t                                    ""
mttint.&4ayC    Srat&   o P.cet.o"                            e ofASOTIN                    eatt.fe.
qe,. por                                             mmuas greuss    tI. m      d.i ads.srie  owe "*al          Tout        Pei' bao.i5    e
c_u~~~~~O                                   -m     qallwv iS jA;a 1 113 n a;"U                                                                  IV= 
WI*              IW    t                    ue      e         8_          8.A        .1        51   4?      4t   48      -             *.es 6s.s         1.6 I0        cm
(86)
ow              SW         21   0~~~~~4 St        i1s          8.8       8.1        a1  4?       40   48     1      Sy     6.0  8.0  6.8       51           7
US         14           is        se          8.          .0      4a   45       45   44            is 8     .:6.   .                       se108
Z,ge6s.                    810         #9    3      so        19          8.7       9.7        a8s          41 46        -    8        8.0 o .8 6.         189         49
SA-bhms nmo1               _          4"    U    a,1.16       -           S.        $.I        4647         4u  44       -      -      6.6 6.7 9           -          so"
(eedl  Sb-. 61m7a)         -             Im   9,9W           -           2.8        .6        46   41      46    6      -      -      6.4  8.8  4.7       -
pee waSs Oltms.,89
fladI94    I                                        to        as           .6        A         4?   4?      46   46     -      9        .8.88.0            -           "
useada8                                18   14      6         in6         8.2       3.6        49   51      44   48             6      7.0 1.860.6         so910
bes*$                      to0          8    11    St         se8?                   .         49   80      40   44      -             .U.o60              £07
SOger            S..          1    1~~~~1 *4        69          8.6       8.         48   St      48   44      -            ': '.6,.   7.80     426         In8
beads            896          7~~~~ ~ 10o   S8      70          8.         .8        51   as      45   48      -              .6 6.0 1.9        910         to6
hi fgq41gj  am  fI m.em   ditq%~..d0.aa&m.0I60   esdSImls re bt 18. I arSd  beS. h    96.
*~~~~~~~~~~ _.



- 50 -
ANNU 2.2
Pag 1 of 3
ZCfAts NATIONAL POPUATION PROJICT
Proiectlons of lriaed'a fonulation umder
Three F etilitv Decline Scenarios
A.            Last LertllIty Decline (TFR - 4.00 by 2000 oer Gow erments
volis, and NRR * 1.00 by 20401i
............. ................................  ............................................................... . ................................................................. ...... 
sol ~             on            "          if           me          w   te        to is         s        am   a m                 Ma
70164    99449      ~~11739      16974        15007        1643        14174       2035         33429       31433        3003
994   11313       109m         1107        11149        i339        a1m1         1314&       1367         1316
e~~~~~rm                 9m          lw          to"          itwe  to"                 "          ivuO a                   la,"
3.9            74           939          03         10           10m3        109 t"                   13734low MO1V ties
43as4        6UG4        ?           10s45       13           109         10           1*           3           1
1.19            5341         aoa         743          8914        1037        1013         1031        1011         1175        ii"
3034            4144         10w         6                         M70        1m            91         Iola         13w          11419
1-30                         464         4934         S3           46          4?          gmW          9"           09           0
30--3             70        3SW           we          4s71           31         49          8am          11            39
31*9            337         3a00         3130         371          4546        143         a"4          31           933          917
40.4             1914        314          an          an           s3          4371         5           434                       9114
41-4            1us5        19           Mr           Ms          a3s             3        417         "a           413          no
10.14           t134         145          1a"         14           31s3        31                        m0          41           "so
1 q              949w        1131         1334        153          1           19           an          36           SW           44
40*6              3           83           or             3        1317         I13         173         3159        3an3          33m
41.49             50          6113         064         an4          94         1134         lab          1401        13?          3M5
704              330          Jo4          414         in3          434         m            m3  e       "ar           1?         1434
1               xi3          314         Pe           450           3          41           71          "I          l01          I5n
f014         493          NM          64173        7436          1m             3       109         1a1.         t1 1         1am
mos                                                                                                                 iseL    I23"s e *e tao ta     O 
0.4            99                       tmt t1                   110          m1          133         1309         1            13
1..            774          936         10413       1033         101          ow          119101      1374         1393         1376
10.14           6314         nu4         906         10W1         1"n143                   1091        113          la"1         13on
11.19           14           48          7440          61s        101?         043        t153                      111         t t t13
3034            43           1118        4111         711          1m1                     11 ta       10 59*        e            t1 1701
31.39      R    36           4113        "So          1            7103        61          10           "           to 01t
30.34            34           =S                      40           1n           mu          am          991          93s        1t009
31.39           54           36                       we3          4411        173an                                 99            73
44.4A           196                       341          1111        34           4           11          40           63S          Om63
45.49            14          1904         3149        ilia         3S          3            41i         S1                        4111
s50.1            139          1514        1018         3L          24t8         Mr          31           460          10
15.19            lOW         1314         1453         1460 1IA3                2a          39          3393         483          1
do-*4             69          gm          1133         133         111           sm1        31m          360         3173         3910
as-o              SW           m"                                   X           sw          168  tf    tw e nn9
664               19?         13s          63           *5t        1181         119?        14           too?        839          am
14.4             3             44          59          413          413         573         117w         134          591
71o             31           419          11?          3           79          94          11          11           19           31
0no  50                    1943       4750         PM5          811         93          1401        11413        lSt          13304
316733*13l               47.19        39.4        34.1         30J           0.         33.3          4.3        33.4         31.1
mm*73an                  11.1         13.3         51.4        10.0          9.4         L.?          8.0          7.4         4.9
*A3t z o.    .                        r.3A                     3.0?         I.0         3.0          1.83        1.0          1.1
1,pui t.0    mut     .     .0           .0          .0           .0.                                                .0
13                       3.31         3.5         3.31         3.04         3.0         3.01         1.Sst  L3     .4.0 t  t   o  1.4t
1   U                    .n         1.490        40r"          44 U"      S            3.170 LW                  .M    n
No                      3.13         30           1.73        1.12         1.448       1.V3         I.313        I.M         11.13
d0) * 603W25."6                      13.14       14.3         17.13        3.94        60.80        43.7        41.43        41.
O5    63                4S." 1      49.0         49.92        60.73        117.1       1M           13.63       14.91        14.03
Un * O3  N              t10.9        9r           0.1          4.1         4.           1L.          53.         47.9         43.1
4A15  * 63 s1           .7            13          .1=0        .1           .0M .0                    0           .09         .5



- 51 -
AN=E 2-2
Page 2 of 3
B.          Medium Fertility decline (Bsanks Standard Proiection:
NiR - 1.00 by 2040):
............................................. .....................................................................................................
34t X"           1"I5        19o         1995        N00         25           M01O      nil          M20       *05          arSO
............. .....  ... ....... ...  ...... ........... ..... ..... -- . .. ....w----........................-.--....----.-.------.---..............-
0a&            99          1r72*9      3661        t58t        1t42       a    1ius   *'a          27173       3Mo         331397
VIA161
0.4           9%6         11312       135          14136       15936       1esis       121         18m0          T7        Into'
5.9            774         929        10653        1134        1359       15m          1M          *n8         1mp         '61
t.C-!          63o          7584        900         1044        ll         1340        15a*1       i6o          164         '8M5
1s. 19          5*4S       6*06         743         8916        10374      11489       1333         154         165         1
*0-24           4164        5  o"036                 70o        am          100s4       117         1300        1439        162*5
25-29           337         4024        4424        s5*          686        6a3         Wu          11019       la8         I2
0-s34           2706        3250        387           75            1 5431o              MO76  g                t9i59?      Ina**
35-39           2*7         UN          31o          372.3   s    6          a*5         5           79          "3t        1068
40-4            1914        *166        240          2976        3555        431         51333       6*61        FM          9154
*5-49          U13          Iwo9        2o0?         2343        t13        I31         4178         5n 06135                 MO40
50-54           1*44        1455        166          19          2tU1       234          317         30          4m          5858
I."59           %99         1Ss         1324         t3          17"        1997        a42                      3667        49
6tO04            725         653         99          1163        134         ism          m          S1"          t           32
65*49            5u          002         76           86          96         11U4        1i          1495        18?          am35
70-n             320         36          454          Su          434        7m           ea          99         15r          1414
Is.             253         314         3s           450         534        65           is?         901        101          1na
TOTAL        49336       Wm0         675 *        7           91071      106W7       11          15M         14114        16*524
KRAUS
0.4             8         1111        12314        1390        152tt        70         ism1 101t               Is"?         lam
5.9            776?        9266       10612        117l1       ISM         15*4        169         174         18431        185
10.14          6356         nu          903         104390      114         i332        11113       t656        17671        163
15.19           5276       6*33         7"6         895         1031?       11110       13214       150112     t167          17613
*0-24           422n         15         6111    O     t          O5         1o0a        113t        13100       14911        135
*5-29           3458        4113        $039         599         7306       S6          107         116         It           14816
30-34           m           3353        a0           4923    s     n         7U          ea          9931       1l153        la90
35-39           *54         *M6         3251           9         4811       5lit         68            3         9"9         11046
404-4           1994       M20           611         3151        14          46          530                    a6            "a
45.49           166         194         2169         Isis        3051        365         457         54          666            II
50-54           1339        1558         1813        204         8418        35          355            3        533          650
S5.59           1066        1246         14o8        10          1963        2295        V"          339         4            51
60-64            8t          eo          1133         37        1n57         1t19        2133          06         3115        37
t5-09            597.        703         63           991       t116         1w          16t0        1907         MO3         *59
0.74             394         "A8         559          6n           1s         9n         In?         1348        1594         196
1.              341         419         St?          639           3         974        1183        1415        191 *o01
totAL        5033         9143         T          80          91,        104         1am22       138135      153146       168611
Stan  RATE              47.9        44.2         4.3          4.3        37.         34.4        31.1         V7.? *r.0
outIl  Ata0             15.5        13.6         18.0        10.5         9.5          .5         7.6         6.8          6.3
RAN OF tNA. tIe.        3.25        3.06         3.03        2.9"        3.6         39          L.35        2.09         1.8
sT NORArt t  RANI         .0          .0           .0          .0          .0          .0          .0          .0           .0
c0wr16 RArE             3.25        3.06         3.03         .98        3.80        8.59        2.35        3.09         1.66
tOTAL sItLtty          C.M          .2.4        5.79        5.33      5 L.8         4.31S       S.8s         .I95        L.  6
uR                     l3.453      3.31         LIPS        LI"         23          1.66        1.66        1.496 t.-33
c    so n son         50.4        52.54       54.12        5r.18       56.96       60.65      'U. t        64.68       46.7
Ws)81 *        Uttt    48 .55      49.30       49.93        50.71       5.n        5U.7         53.83        4.91        5.03
t    6011 O     51S    104.9         r.7         61.5        69.5        64.1        56M         53.3        47.9         42.
S)  3 GM  am           .1753       .11n         .1300       .o"         .0913       .8W         .0no         .0I          o



52 -                                                    ANuX 2-2
Page 3 of 3
C.          Slow Ve:ttlLt, Decline (VIM  * 1.00 BY 20701:
............................ ................................................-.--.....--.-... --...-.-....  -------..............
a.'6          9m          11311       11469       14610       '9354       I1*6        3439        am33        3303'        MO4
5.9           7m         t939         14063       13a          159or       1ow        31 3t131                3773        31t73
tOt4           630         nu           9t         101         13319       1IM0        13t10       3110        3499        3t
11.19          5345        335          7431        0910       1037        1343        1153        lam7        1091       3am3
30-34          4164         30"         403          MO         an         low43  0    13J77       1f373                   t
t5.O           337          424         '934          3         46            3         9m0        119119       11013      t'77
30.3'          35           331         30          4741        533         679           0e          1o1                   11803
31-50     t     37t        no           3120        3733   *     540                    a44   t       m         933         1
44.44           1914        31"         3400         M97         3151        435        133         6331         777         9154
.49             1s"        is"3           0r 24343               313         37         4173        0022        6135          o0
SQ-4            13"         151         13           104         311         3434       3173        310          471         s
11-1       9                1131        1334         1131        1731        1w?         312         396         35    * 44
0-.1             7            3          wr          I"          14?         1534        1t         2159         3n          39
3539            Su          40          7G          3             4         1134        13         1493         1a?         am35
M5.74           310          33          414         Su          634          m            o         9" 0        1ST         144
...            3            314         373         40          134         45          nr          o9          1019        list
MAL         49336         33           403                   WM          11103       1341       14053        113         3119'*
FSL#S
0.4            9IS        11211       13320        139         19031      23173                    3"          31910      s354n3
5.9            7737        9363       10312        13743       1SM33       lar         317        234"         373s331
10-14          63           nu           03         10439       13176       1s1s3       131        31  ts       2130         7 am7
11-to          S             3m         ?4"0        39          10317       11          15w3       18wo          09      t
0-.            43           I1I$        4111        R7           Mt         11s33       13313       11393       1103          334am
31.39           341         4113        1039         3969        7303        a"9        1005     17 131?        15363       17991
30-*            3             53        4404        4923         57          7M         am          993         132         15147
31-39           34           703        381         39            11         5m         3950        am           9594       11910
40-4            t            30         2611         3151        3           4%          530         30          33          933
(1.49           1343"                   319         2510         3051        SW         417         1499         *6          3151
5044            133         155         Is1a          0          3410       3M9         331   45                  13         6103
IS1*9           1036       t16          145          1703        1933        3"          23"         39          43          5115
60-*31               9ut                1133         1w          Iss         1019        3133       2M0G         3in         3
3-0              59T        7in          3            91         1101        139         1           190          3O          M9
70-74            394         4           559          6732        01          97n        11?         1340        1594         1s
is*            341          419         SIT         639           9          974       1133        145          t391        Iota
totA         50          19143       69s         36          lo9         1110        1t131       13054       193441      219
No" I3A3                47.9        47.1         4.3         44.3        13.6        41.7        40.1        33.3        33.S
"Aim 31l                15.3        13.9        12.1         10.9         9.r         0           I7.r        4.7         S.
"t10 03 mu. tIC.        3.23        3.33         3.58        3.34        3.41        3.31        3.34        3.16         30s
Mt SIMMUCI0 3 A31         .0          .0           .0          .0          .0          .6          .0           .0         .0
C391   It3              3.8         3.33          .S5        3.%         3.4t        3.31        3.24        3.16         3.05
boAs. 3tt5t1         6C7=          6.m         6.t0         6.500       3.131       5.          5.405       5.1         4.06
Om                     LOS         2.16         3.9         2.373       3.          2.492       2.393       3.31         Lt?t
at) * OM  WE           10.44       5.34         34.32       17.10       16.93       30.3        4.70         4.40       4.373
401S5  . Om  am        4*.55       49.20        49.9O       S07         51.75        37?        5.3         54.91       "5.03
ti  * gm  333          101.9        M3.         61.1         OA          34.1   s     4?         13.3        47.9        42.5
4) * OM  O3            .13          .13         .300         1A                     -w          .0119        .049        .0130
11"*"S Wsed luA .u1   9*o.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Population Factors and National Developments
1980              2000                2015
Indicators                      A and B        A           8       A            B
Annual Deficit in
Staple Food Production            2.1            11        8.2      25           10
Cereal Deficits 21                2.0            4.4       2.5        7.0      self
(million tons)                                                           sufficient
Demand for Fuelvood
(million cubic meters            62 ('85)      93         84       145           99
per year)
Potential Investment
Per Capita from                 103             73        82        27           40
Petroleum Revenues CS)
GDP per capita                  526 ('83)      513       572       536          782
(Naira)
Child Dependency Ratio          124 ('85)      124        97       127           66
(per 100 workers)
Primary School Enrollments       12.7           27.3      23.5      48.2       23.5
(millions)
Population at Highest Risk
of Morbidity & Mortality         39.6 ('85)    68.2       57.8     117.1        7.5
(women of childbearing age
and children under 5 years;
millions)
Urban Population                 16.9           48.4      43.6     101.9       70.6
(millions)
v A - High Fertility Continued
B - 3-Child per Woman Average by 2005
21 Assumes production increases by 2Z per year.
Sources The futures Group et al., The Effects of Population Factors on Social and
Economic Development,* April 1985.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 8
NIGERIAs NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Strategies for the Implementation of the Population Policyl
The strategies for implementation of the national population policy
should be voluntary and in accord with fundamental human rights of the
individuals.
One of the most important strategies for the implementation or the
focus of the population policy is to make family planning services easily
affordable, safe, and culturally acceptable. In order to ensure the
maximum success of the family planning programe, all relevant agencies,
both public and private, should be mobilized for the effective delivery of
the services. The health status of the population is crucial to human
survival and experience in this country and elsewhere indicates that
effective health measures and better living conditions directly affect
morbidity, mortality and fertility. To redu-e fertility rates, special and
favorable social and economic programmes ought to be tailored toward
involving women in the nation's development. National and community
programmes should make use of the potentials of young persons to cotitribute
to social and economic development. An aggressive population information,
educational and communication programme is prerequisite to the
implementation of this population policy.
1. Family Planning and Fertility Regulation
In recent times, the incidence of unwanted pregnancies, abortions,
abandoned babies and child abuse has greatly increased and now constitutes
a national social problem. Voluntary fertility regulation and organized
family planning have proved to be effective, preventive and low cost
measures to control such social problems. Also, family planning reduces
maternal and infant morbidity and mortality as well as stems rapid
population growth in the shortest possible time. Accelerated fertility
regulation and family planning programmes should be formulated and
implemented within the context of our health care and related systems. It
is necessary to adopt fertility regulation as a code of ethics.
1.1      Appropriate measures shall be taken to protect and support the
family which is the basic unit of society.
1.2      Legislation which protects the family and the institution of
marriage shall be enabled and promoted.
lExcerpts from Section 5 of National Policy on Population for
Development, Unity, Progress and Self-Reliance, Federal Republic of
Nigeria, 1988. The numbering scheme has been slightly modified to fit the
new context.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 8
1.3      In view of current low mean ages at first marriage for females,
national programmes, especially in education, shall aim at raising the age
at first marriage to at least 18 years.
1.4      The value of family planning and child spacing on the stability
and well-being of the family, shall be promoted and family planning
services shall be incorporated into maternal and child health services.
1.5      Government shall ensure the availability and accessibility of
fatily planning services to all couples and individuals seeking such
services at affordable prices on a voluntary basis.
1.6      Family planning services shall include services to sterile and
sub-fertile couples as well as individuals who want to have children to
achieve self-fulfillment.
1.7      National family planning programmes shall make available a variety
of methods of fertility regulation to ensure free and consecious choice by
all couples.
1.8      Family planning clinics and commercial distribution outlets shall
be established to include the utilization of ezisting health facilities and
community-based delivery systems in order to reach those communities,
couples and individuals who are currently not being served by the
conventional delivery systems.
1.9      Special attention shall be paid to educating and motivating the
population at grass-roots level on the health, social and demographic
values of family planning.
1.10     Wherever possible, family planning education shall be incorporated
in training programmes for women and adult persons.
1.11     Special emphasis in informational programmes shall be given to
reaching the male population with messages of social and economic
implications of excessive child bearing and the moral responsibility of
procreation.
1.12     Adequate resources and appropriate training shall be given to
family planning personnel to make family planning programmes more
responsive to local cultural values and individual couples' preferences.
1.13     Necessary efforts shall be made to improve planning, funding and
management for more effective implementation of maternal and child health
as well as family planning programmes.
1.14     The strategy shall be to link plans with budgets to consolidate
existing service capacities, to coordinate manpower planning and training,
to mobilize additional domestic and external resources and to improve cost
effectiveness, monitoring and evaluation of the family planning programse.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 8
2. Maternal and Child Health
Without any prejudice to the provisions of the National Health
Policy, the implementation of the National Health Prograrmes shall be
intensified to reduce the current high childhood and maternal morbidity and
mortality rates, especially in the rural and suburban areas, using the most
effective low cost strategies.
2.1      Existing health delivery systems shall be reviewed and the
implementation of primary health care as the strategy of providing health
for all shall be intensified. Maximum community participation in the
formulation and management of such services shall be promoted.
2.2      Special attention shall be given within the context of primary
health care to encourage breast feeding, the provision of adequate
nutrition, clean water, basic sanitation, immunizations, oral rehydration
therapy, birth spacing, fertility regulations and family planning services.
2.3      Health policies and programmes shall be integrated into other
development sectors such as education, agriculture, employment, urban,
rural and regional planning.
2.4      Measures shall be taken urgently to increase the level of
awareness on health and family planning attained by women as an end in
itself and because of its close link to child spacing and survival. All
available information shall be made easily accessible and disseminated
through-out the country.
2.5      For the sake of the health of mother and child, specific
programmes, including family planning services, shall be devised and put
into effect to reduce the incidence of high risk births which occur below
the age of 35 years, at intervals of less than two years and more than four
in number.
2.6      Research in traditional health care shall be intensified to
establish the scientific basis and enhance the utilization of the useful
aspects of such care for the provision of health services.
3. Role and Responsibilities of Men in Family Life
In our society, men are considered the head of the family and they
take far-reaching decisions including the family size, subsistence and
social relations. At this transition period from subsistence to industrial
economy, the average man bears greater paternalistic burden in caring for
the family. Special information and enlightenment programmes are necessary
to increase awareness of men as to the need of having the appropriate size
of family they can foster within their resources.
3.1      The patriarchal family system in the country shall be recognized



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 8
for stability of the home.
3.2      Appropriate information and education programmes shall be designed
and implemented to promote awareness by men of their responsibility for
adequate caring and for having appropriate family uses.
3.3      Men shall be enlightened on the promotion of health benefits of
marrying mature women above 18 years of age, spacing of births of children
by at least 2 years interval, having an optimum nv'mber of four children
from a spouse and the optimum age of 35 years for a spouse to end child
bearing.
3.4      Men shall be required to lawfully consummate and register
marriages with appropriate authorities.
3.5      To promote family self-reliance and prevent poverty, men shall be
encouraged to have limited number of wives and optimum number of children
they can foster within their resources. In addition, men shall be
discouraged from having children after the age of 60 years.
3.6      Families shall be dissuaded from giving away their daughters in
marriage before the age of 18 years.
3.7      Appropriate legislation shall be promulgated to discourage and
punish men who put underage females in the family way.
3.8      Appropriate legislation shall be promulgated to ensure that men
provide paternal support for any children they father.
4. Role and Status of Women in Development
Women of child bearing age constitute an important proportion of
the population and a great national reserve for development. At present,
there are various social and cultural barriers to their participation in
the nation's development. Early marriage, high bride price, domestic and
rural drudgery, discriminatory family treatment and old age insecurity are
some of the social injustices that afflict Nigerian womanhood. Low social
and economic status, marital instability and insecurity at old age are some
causes of high fertility. Involving women in the nation's development is
essential to reducing fertility rates. Special and favorable social and
economic programmes are needed for that purpose.
4.1      The role of women as mothers and workers shall be recognized in
all sectors of the economy and day-care centres for nursing mothers shall
be provided on a voluntary basis.
4.2      Programes to reduce the heavy burden of work of rural women shall
include the introduction of appropriate labour-saving technology in
agriculture, industry and domestic work such as the provision of potable
water, rural electrification and affordable readily available fuel.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-4
Pag 5 of 8
4.3      Programmes designed to foster women's economic independence shall
be strengthened, especially the establishment of domestic and village
crafts, agro-allied and small scale industries.
4.4      Programmes shall be introduced to guarantee equal opportunity
between the sexes in education, employment, housing and business.
4.5      Intensive action programmes aimed at improving and protecting the
legal rights and status of women shall be pursued. All forms of
discrimination against women shall be eliminated as provided for In the
International Conventions to which the nation is a signatory.
4.6      Education for vomen shall be promoted equally and special
population education and information programmes in the areas of fertility,
regulation of high risk pregnancies and health promotion shall be provided.
4.7      All employers of labour shall limit paid maternity benefits to
four pregnancies that have at least a two-year interval.
4.8      All employers of labour shall actively promote family planning as
a labour code and voluntary social contracts.
5. Children and Youth
Young persons under 18 years constitute the largest portion of the
population, a great national dependency burden and reserve of inadequately
used resource for development. It is imperative that national and
community programmes take special account of the potentials of young
persons to contribute positively to social and economic development.
5.1      Programes shall be developed to meet the needs of youth, taking
cognizance of the dominance of this group in the population and provide
adequate resources for social and economic opportunities to the majority of
this group.
5.2      Educational and vocational training facilities shall be expanded
to provide better preparation for an economically and socially more active
life for the youth of both sexes within the family and the society.
5.3      Special programmes shall be developed to reduce the high number of
school drop-outs who contribute to a rising rate of unemployment,
delinquency and crimes in urban and rural areas. Continuing educational
programmes for these groups shall focus on practical and technical training
that provide ample opportunities for gainful employment.
5.4      The education calendar shall be integrated into the nation's
agrarian timetable to enable children and youth to contribute usefully to
the nation's agricultural and socio-economic pursuits.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 6 o 8
5.5      Population and family life education shall be incorporated into
formal and vocational training to assist young people prepare themselves
for responsible parenthood.
5.6      Appropriate legislation shall be introduced to help improve the
rights of children and thereby help to control all forms of child
exploitation, neglect and abnie.
5.7      A national code of ethics shall be introduced to encourage male
youths to marry not earlier than 25 years and for female youths not earlier
than 18 years.
6. Population Education and Information
A large proportion of the nation's population, especially in rural
areas, has limited access to information, and a low level of literacy.
Hence, an action programme of population education and information
gathering and dissemination needs to be vigorously pursued to enlighten the
people on rapid population growth and its implications.
6.1      Appropriate mechanisms shall be developed for disseminating
available demographic information to policy makers, project officers,
researchers and the general public. Such information shall be summarized
and presented in forms that are appropriate and easily understood by all
sections of the population.
6.2      Population information networks and data banks shall be
established to provide an empirical base for project formulation,
implementation and evaluation.
6.3      Priority shall be given to training of specialists in population
information, and dissemination activities shall use all appropriate
channels of communication available to reach the majority of the population
effectively.
6.4      Appropriate machinery for sex and fertility education and
information dissemination programmes shall be established at all levels of
community activities.
6.5      Co-ordinating Committees on Population Information and Education
shall be established at all appropriate levels to ensure prompt provieLn
of sueh information and education in the public schools, in adult literacy
and education programmes, by radio, television, the press and all other
effective media.
7. Sgatial Distribution of the Population
The rate of urbanization in this country has greatly accelerated
leading to overcrowding, poor environmental sanitation, unemployment,



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 7 of 8
increased pressure on social and health infrastructures in all the major
urban centres across the nation. These urban centres have become the point
of attraction for migrants seeking adventures and livelihood. Effort needs
to be made to reverse this trend of urbanization.
7.1      Rural economies shall be improved and the people assisted in
developing social and economic facilities such as handicraft, small-scale
and agro-allied industries to stimulate balanced development.
7.2      Positive action shall be taken to make living conditions in rural
areas attractive and appropriate disincentive measures shall be taken to
discourage urban squatters.
7.3      A comprehensive urbanization policy shall be integrated into the
overall development planning process and shall aim, among other things, at
reducing the current high rate of migration to large urban centres,
developing medium-size towns and ensuring effective economic
interdependence between towns and villages.
7.4      Progressive development strategies shall be devised to stem the
current flow of young people from the rural areas to the urban centres.
Measures shall be taken to upgrade living conditions in the slum areas of
cities.
7.5      Special and appropriate measures shall be taken to regulate
protect and assist international immigrants and refugees, to safeguard
their property and respect their cultures.
S. Population Date Collection, Training and Research
Demographic information on the nation's population is poor and
inadequate for planning of socio-economic development. Reliable and timely
data is essential to systematic and scientific projections. National
experts on population should be integrated into national agencies
responsible for formulating and implementing population and development
policies, program_es and projects. Effort should be intensified to
generate more reliable, timely, and appropriate data.
8.1      One of the provisions of the national code of ethics shall be the
registration of birth, identity and death.
8.2      Priority shall be given to the lmplementation of existing laws,
improvement of vital registration systems and introduction of culturally
acceptable means and innovations which ensure timely processing, analysis
and dissemination of data.
8.3      Priority attention shall be accorded to all preparatory census
activities and population surveys on a regular basis so as to avoid
problems of controversy over census results.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 8 of 8
8.4      Efforts shall be devoted to achieving fuller and more timely
analysis and interpretation of census and survey data for economic and
social development planning.
8.5      Efforts shall be devoted to achieving fuller and more timely
analysis and interpretation of census and survey data for economic and
social development planning.
8.6      Periodic training workshops shall be conducted in the use of
demographic data on specific aspects of population for platnners, policy
makers, researchers and population programme officers.
8.7      Particular efforts shall be made tc, intensify social and action-
oriented research work.
8.8      Special research shall be undertaken into problems related to the
integration of women in the process of development.
8.9      Specific studies shall be undertaken on the appropriate method of
eliminating factors which inhibit women's economic, social and cultural
advancement.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Ni3eria's Pogulation Policy--Goals. Objectives and Targetsi/
Chapter 4 of the population policy gives the following goals,
objectives, and targets:
A.   Goals
The four goals of the popuiation policy are to: (1) improve living
standards and the quality of life. (2) promote health and welfare,
especially by prevention of premature deaths among mothers and children,
(3) reduce the rate of population growth through voluntary fertility
regulation, and (4) achieve more even distribution of population between
urban and rural areas.
B.  Obiectives
Seven objectives have been identified to permit achievement of the
above goals. These objectives are to: (1) proote widespread population
awareness in the shortest possible time, (2) provide everyone with the
necessary ixformation on the value of limiting the size of one's family,
(3) educate youth on population, sexual relationships, and family planning
prior to marriage, (4) provide easily accessible and affordable family
planning services to all couples, (5) assist childless or sub-fertile
couples in achieving their aspirations, (6) improve and regularize the
collection and analysis of demographic data, and (7) enhance conditions in
the rural areas as a means of countering rural-urban migration.
C.   Tarsets
A number of specific targets were, in turn, spelled out in connection
with implementation of the policy:
Target                               By 1995             By 2000
1.   Reduce proportion of women                By 502              By 802
marrying before age 18
2.   Reduce preganancies among mothers         By 502              By 90?
under 18 or over 35 years of age
3.   Reduce proportion of women bear-          By 5SO              By SOZ
ing more than 4 children
4.   Hake family planning services             To 50S               To 802
11 Extracted from National Policy on Population for Development, Unity,
Progress and Self-Reliance,' Federat Republic of Nigeria, 1988.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of a
available to women of child
bearing age
S.   Direct a significant proportion               -                To all
of family life education and
appropriate family planning
services to men
6.   Reduce total fertility rate from              -                To 4
present level of between 6 and 7
7.   Reduce the population growth rate         To 2.52              To 2a.O
from its present level of 3.3Z
8.   Reduce infant mortality                 To 50/1000            To 30/1000
9.   Reduce the crude death rate             To 10/1000             To 8/1000
10.  Provide family life education                 -                To all
and family planning information
and services to adolescents
11.  Provide basic amenities to rural          To 502               To 75Z
communities



- 64 -
AO4EX 2-0
P&aG 1 of 2
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROIECT
CPRs and Annual Program Costs, by Year, under Different Assumption.
1. Under tho Rapid Fertility ODcline with TFR of 4.0 by 2000
Year        Total      Married Women   RequTred Contra-          Nqumbe   Unit     Annual
FertilIty   Ago 15-42       captive Prewalnce      of Users  Cost      Cost
Rate         ('000)         (as U of married woman)  ('l00)    (8)     ('0C0)
ASSUTION A:
1987         4.7        11,310                S.10              1,117       50      S5,845.0
10"          0.40       18,934                9.60              1,672       48      89,900.2
1a80         0.22       190679                18.07             2,077       46      123,618.5
190          5.07       2,0240                17.40             8,53s       44      160,855.8
1t01         5.78       20,966               21.25              4,456       42      186,470.5
1002         5.49       21,716                25.08             5,430       40      219,526.7
1990         5.29       22,488                26.18             6,326       a8     243,319.2
1904         6.09       23,289               31.28              7,278       37     205,751.5
1995         4.90       24,119                84.83             6,280       35      260,601.5
1998         4.70       25,014                87.43             9,U62       83      800,08.8
1997         4.80       26,042               40.52              10,513      81      823,473.1
0108         4.83       26,906                43.13             11,606      20      J34,740.1
1000         4.17       27,908               45.74              12,08       27      343,016.5
2000         4.00       28,989                40.36             18,091      25      349,780.0
ASSUWPTION B:
1"7          6.7        18,310                6.10               1,117      50       55,845.0
1088         0.40       16,7"                 10.14              1,904      48       91,514.4
1989         0.22       19,240                14.15              2,728      40      125,681.6
1990         5.07       19,780                28.18              3,657      44      168,162.5
10I          5.73       20,255                22.07              4,471      42      196,145.0
1902         5.49       20,70                 26.00              5,403      40      218,202.1
1008         5.29       21,J41                29.2               6,232      8o      230,610.6
1904         5.00       21,008                32.30              7,004      37      259,203.0
1005         4.90       22,476                 5.5               7,0n       35     276,611.5
s006         4.70       28,100                88.60              8,030      8       292,145.0
1in7         4.50       28,730               41.79               0,9o       31      306,243.1
9108         4.83       24,800                44.41             10,631      29      812,441.8
100         4.17       25,0W6               47.01              11,778      27      817,102.7
2000         4.00.      25,740               40.56              12,762      25      310,042.5



- 65 -
AMX 2-4
Pose 2 of 2
2. Under the World Bank's otanderd Fertility deline Sceenrio
Y'ear      total      married Women   Required Contr-          Number  Untt       Annual
Fertiity   Age 1S-4       c ptiv Prve lne      eof Uer   Coot        Cot
Rate         ('VO)         (a* N of o  eared womn)  ('004)   (8)     ('SON)
ASSIWTZON A:
196"        0.7        0s,n1               6.10               1,117      50       55,848.0
196         6.61       18,984              7.52               1,426     4a        06,490.4
1989        6.52       19,5?0              6.05               1,52       40       80,s.9
190         6.43       20,244              10.3?              2,100      44       92,800.2
1991        6.34       20,968              11.0               2,473      42      104,60U.6
1992        6.24       21,ns               18.22              2,7n       40      115,026.1
s908        6.15       22,488              14.64              8,298      88      126,667.7
1s"4        6.0       28,290              16.0?              8,742      87      1a,620.9
19o5        5.97       24,119              17.49              4,219      8       146,081.9
if06        5.98       25,014              16.92              4,782       8.,   14,688.7
1907        S."        25,942              20.84              5,276      81      162,80.8
0108        5.n        26,905              21.C4              6,7qS      29      167,163.5
190"        5.Q4       27,00               22.74              ,4S       27      170,610.6
2000        5.56       20,088              23.04              6,927      25      178,102.5
ASUPTON 3:
1987        6.7        16,810               6.10              1,117      s0       6S,84.0
198         6.61       18,778               7.11              1,8$       40       64,102.7
1960        6.52       19,24S               8.12              1,568      46       72,156.9
1990        6.48       19,780               9.14              1,608      44       79,726.0
1991        6.84       20,265              10.lt              2,066      42       86,967.7
1902        6.24       20,70               11.1              2,821      40      90,724.6
1008        6.15       21,841              12.18              2,190      8s       09,950.0
1994        6.06       21,908              18.10              2,600      S7      106,577.9
1906        5.97       22,478              14.21              8,194       a5     110,558.1
100         6.68       28,100              1S.28                         as      114,068.7
1997        5.79       28,76               16.26              8,666      81      118,049.2
9198        5.71       24,888              17.04              4,151      29      119,660.0
1000        5.64       26,066              17.08              4,467      27      120,287.8
2C00        5.56       2,740               16.02              4,702      25      119,607.5
Aooumptions$
Uder Aaouptioe A, It to _ee1bMnd that ther WIll beIt.o abg. In  (L) proprtion
Married, (2) ContrScepiv, mix, eN  (8) Ouretion of p rea-prtas infecundabi Ilty.
Under Aeepti on IS, It to aeeumed tht: (1) Ceatreotl ve *ts xWil  Ihange Ia fav"r
of mor, effective methods, (2) Thee W111 b e a gdIt o d Ine to the proportion
merrid tr 0.0 to 470, end (8) buration of poo% pecta  infoedabi I ity mill
dereae tfer  11.1 to 6.8 months under rapid fertility doestin  CSeart* 1)
or frm U.1t.  9.8 esthe under th Bank stadard fertlIty deasine  cenerto 2).
Sources World Datn ambient., April 106



- 66 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Membership of the National Consultative Group on Population for Development
1.       In April 1990, the Minister of Health inaugurated the National
Consultative Group on Population for Development (NCGPD). It is
anticipated that the NCGPD will meet semi-annually. A special sub-
committee of the NCGPD will oversee the operation of the Population
Activities Fund.
2.       The fifty-five agencieslindividuals sitting on the NCGPD are:
(a)   Honourable Minister of Health--Chairman;
(b)   Honourable Ministers of population activities-related
Federal Ministries and Chief Executives of Extra-
Ministerial Departments or their representatives not
below the rank of Director:
(i) Agriculture;
(ii) Education (Nigerian Educational Research &
Development Council);
(iii) Budget and Planning;
(iv) Finance and Economic Development;
(v) Information;
(vi) Social Development, Youth and Sports;
(vii) Internal Affairs;
(viii) Justice;
(ix) National Population Commission;
(x) Nigerian Institute for Social and Economic
Research (NISER);
(xi) Department of Food, Roads and Rural
Infrastructure (DFRRI); and
(xii) Mass Mobilization for Economic Recovery and
Self-Reliance (MAMSER);
(c)   From one state in each of the four Health Zones in
rotation, representatives from the following State
Ministriess



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 2
(i) Health and Social Welfare;
(ii) Information and Cultures
(iii) Educations
(iv) Finance and Economic Developmentl
(v) Justice; and
(vi) The Governor's Office;
(d)   Non-Governmental Organizationst
(i) Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeriat
(ii) National Council for Population Activitiest
(iii) National Council of Women's Societies; and
(iv) Nigeria Labour Congress;
(e)   Religious Groups (one representative from each)i
(i.) Islamlc Groups
(ii) Roman Catholic Church; and
(iii) Protestant Churches:
(f)   Four representatives of Traditional Rulers;
(g)   Four individuals appointed on personal merit; and
(h)   Directors of the following Departments of the Federal
Ministry of Health:
(i) Population Activities (which department will
also serve as the Secretariat to the
Consultative Group);
(ii) Primary Health Car,% and
(iii) Planning, Research, and Statistics.
Sources Based on a communication from the Department of Population
Activities to a Bank Mission, February 1990.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
A Possible Framework for Development of Population
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research Activities
1.       The overall approach to monitoring, evaluation, and, to a lesser
extent, research activities still needs to be developed for the National
Population Programme. In general the following actions are required to
strengthen program monitoring and evaluation capacities:
(a)   Develop immediate capacities for quick detection of changes or
problems and feedback to policy and administrative leaders (to
some extent this will be done through the subproject for
development of a Sentinel Survey System);
(b)   Develop population research institutes or centers over time, so as
to build up the pool of local technical expertise, ensure its
availability for various program purposes, and provide additional
bases of technical support and of credible advocacy for population
activities. This represents a major rationale for the Population
Research Fund (PRF); and
(c)   Strengthen the monitoring and evaluation capacities of the Primary
Health Care (PHC) Department, National Population Commission
(NPC), Federal Office of Statistics (FOS), and other institutions
in collaboration with the Department of Population Activities
(DPA) and create firm linkages with the USAID-funded Family Health
Services (FHS) Project.
2.       As a result of preliminary discussions there has been tentative
agreement to the following actions and organizational responsibilities.
Once the broader analytical framework is agreed upon by the parties
interested in various facets of monitoring, evaluation, and reserarch, it
should become clearer exactly what the most appropriate institutional
framework should be. DPA needs to assume the lead in this process. To do
so may, in turn, require some technical support (e.g., from the Policy
Implementation Component of the FHS Project).
Responsible
Obiective                  Type of Activity        Institution(s)
(a)   To ensure FP services         -HH surveys                -FOS
are available, effective      -Clinic records            -MOHs
and affordable                -KAP studies               -NPC
-Biomedical research       -Universities,
DPA
(b)   To ensure that agencies       -Performance evaluation   -DPAIPAPA
meet expected targets



- 69 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 3
Responsible
Objective                  Ine of Activity         Institution(s)
(c)   To evaluate impacts at        -Surveys                   -NPC, FOS
aggregate and HH levels
-"Evaluation Labsa         -NPC,
using "sentinel            Universities/
samples'                   Institutes
-use of intensive          -NPC,
'model areas'             Universities/
Institutes
(d)   To assess specific            -focussed measurement      -DPA, NERDC,
objective achievements         studies, case studies,    NISER,
and studies of problem         admin. records studies,   Universities,
situations for program-        in subgroups or sub-       NPC
me improvements                areas
ie)   To ensure arrangement for    -development and review   -DPA
systematic collection/         of expected policy and
analysisluse of needed         program measurement
data                           goals and systems
-development of 'model'
program areas to test
adjust and demonstrate
such structures, includ-
ing methods to ensure
efficient, meaningful
data feed-back
(f)   To encourage community        -using indicators under-  -at state and
participation in policy        stood and meaningful to   local levels
and programs, including        local people (e.g.,        involving the
evaluation.                    number of high-risk        consultative
births that are occur-    groups and
ring, and are avoidable   local health
and can be reduced by      committees in
program efforts)           considering
evaluation
arrangements
-providing for feed-back
and discussion of find-
ings with local groups.
(g)   To ensure active involve-    -identifying expertise;   -DPAIPAFA
ment of national expert-       involving local experts
ise in populaticn program      in considering actual im-



- 70 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 3
Responsible
Obiective                 T?e of Activity          institution(s)
monitoring, evaluation,        mediate needst special
and research                   arrangements (consultan-
cles and institutional
contracts) to enlist
their continuing parti-
cipation in efficient
ways; workshops to ori-
ent researchers to problem
questions and policy and
program needs.
Acronyms Unique to This Annex:
FOS   -     Federal Office of Statistics
HH    -     Household
KAP   -     Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices Survey
MOHs  -     Ministries of Health
Sources IDA Staff, February 1990.



NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULAATIW  PROJECT
T1  NATIONAL POPULATION PROUAUEt ISSUES, GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSES, AD PROJECT ACTIOnS
ISSUES/CONTAINTS                                      T RESPONSE                             PROJECT ACTIONS  C CNUTIIMMES
THi FAR
A) SOCIAL, Ck=IftL A PO' 'TCAL
EW ME    T FOR THE P86' AME
1. Stro g .oci-ulturi suppors                 1. Polity gives rolatively littI.           1. tllor mpbhasi for Pepulatiom Roseerc  Fund (FN)
for large families.                            explicit reconitiom to this issu            will bo unerstanding socite-ulturel, ooetmic, etc.,
althog   t str ssos treiming stf           detrminats of frtility and fP me to guide policy
"Ad ethor effots to provde FP              and pror  modificatiet soad deelopment; packag  of
that are culturally smitive;               Phase I subprojoce places strong emsasis o  IEC
Work Plan dres out research needs          activities- an agree guideline is for *11 futre
aemewbat eore eplieitly.                   srvice delivey subproject to include JEC activities.
2. Ambivence amsong policy makers             2. Policy me" stron, explicit               2. Key adileces for limited lEC activities
and othw  leaders regrdlng seW for             appeal for support by all levels of        during thre-year gering up effort by FUDl
a strong program.                              leadership sad idetifies policy            will be veriou  ledeip grou;  duri   id
maers, etc., as key audiences              project reviwi, the adequcy of this effort will
for IEC; Work Plan Includes smi-           be em  ot IDA's cone.
annual consutation with leaders, 
senitizatiom workshbop. ,EC resarch
focussd on different leadership
11t-"  SWd d"l_pwt of
specitfc *strateges aN materials
to reach thbe.
S. Grat social sad cultural                   S. Policy, per 1. above, stres              S. Eatablisest of Population Activitie Fud (PAF)
diversity, which defies standard               ned for culturally senstive fP             parsite  local gov_rmeets, I_Se, etc. to design  e
solutions.                                     sevice  snd als noe  need for              subproejectsed recelv  funding mithis basic
co_multy participation In  am              frameork in policy Nd current wor  plan.
otbhr things, evaluation ot the
progrm a  refors In passlng
to nee for etructeres for progrm
coordiation .t local level;
Work Plsa lnclds a review
of calteral walue on fP and
sevrl eplicit ctions to
mobilize local ceamsitles l                                                           .0
the proeam.                                                                            a
* K



ISU /CEDR                                      40VEROENT RESPOS                                 PRO" AcnS a CONinTIAM ES
THUS FAR
4. Upcoming poiltical transition                4.  Polley doe  not, of course,             4. Stroes  on establishenat of broad-bwsed national
may threaten a mm snd stili                     address this Iosne directly, but             body, including religios and tradittonal
controver esl proram like                       does *tress the need for a broad             leaders and NGO, which condition was met before
population.                                     Inastitutlonal role In the progrm           negotiations, .111 help with institutionalitation
ond the estabishbmnt of a                   ot program to will the beavy emphasi on nearly all
prmoanet body for program planning          Phase I subproj ects or eatabishmaent of strong
and contideretion; Work Plan                Irstitutional bhse  for population work to difftrent
entalln specific assignm_t. to a            key sectorol agencies.
number of Federal agencles and
some NQOe nd gives broad endorse-
ment by other agenctes of the role
of the *cntral coordinating
body (OPA).
B)  CONw      OF Th POLICY
S.  Some target. to the polly                  S.  Pollcy doe  not addrs                   5. bur ag preparation Sank bhs provided Governm_nt.
(e.g.  achievement of TFRH4.O sad               queatioaa of how it, Including              with Its. compter program for target setting to
population growth rate a 2.0 by                 specitic targets, ti to be modi-            facilitate review of Implications of current
2000) are highly unrealistic and                tied as required, although the              snd alternativ  targets.
nearly lwitabl ftteflurs to meet                rolte of aoitoring and evaluation
them may discredit the program.                 in ro-orlentatlon of the proram
is diecuseed; Work Plan also does
not, understandably addres
questiea of adjusting target..
but it also doa not addres
critical queetioa of the level
of effort those target  "cld
rteire (see 7. belo).
. Lack of COAIderatie of possible               0.  Policy to sllent on tlor*s of           S. lank has raised this laue during project
program coets tn policy, wbhch                  coste per so, but doe  roefr to             prspatieson so part of the IssU or lfel of
nmong other thtngs, mneo the                    the ned to mobilse additional                 fort ad pr e ated Its own estiates of  "prog
cost-benetit spects of the program are          domestic And *xternal resources             costa in reaItion to the targets given in the
not examined in quantitative tenr.              for the fP *spects of the progro;           policy end unde  less ambitious tergots using t
Work Plan note noed to cost the             target getting program; Sank-spon ored sector
U                                    Work Plan itoelt, but don  not call          work in IS9  l addressin ce*t-ben  It Isse  t a   z
for overall anlyste of coet of               ov rnmnt's reqwet.                               oa z
program, etc.1



ISnSa/cOMIAINTMS                               GOVERNMIET RESPONSE                             PROJECT ACTMONS  Co(NSIIUJMT
TUS FAR
C)  EMERGIN PROGRA  ITSELF
7.  Incomplete definition ot a                  7. Policy lipies that F  ansd               7.  These and other strategic issues have bee  addreseed
strategic plan for implemtatlot                 rolated fertility reduction                  In lBank' dialouoe with Government; Bank Is propoing
especially with regrd to prioriti-              activities are priority, but as              that certain lower priority areas be excluded
sation of mctlto.  and levOl of                 noted In 0. above, tho level of             froe support by PAF; thio area .11  be address"d In
etforts retired.                                effort to achieve target  is not            aid-term review of project with special referenace  to
kreesed; l Work Plan similarly              allocation of PAF resources.
does not addrss thel  key
stetugie issue  althowgh efforts
to priorltizea intrventions ar
undrwy.
.  eknoneee  . o erall progra                  S. Policy *pells out mandate for DPA        B.  Establishmet of PAf, which I to be managed
coordinatjoa (e.g., little                      although It Is silent on critical           jolntly by SPA nd PAfA, will gretly  ncreame OPA'e 
Institut,oelIzed source of authority           lises of Its rolo reogard13g the             ability to coordinate the program; stmlarly, to the
for OPA oktside of policy Itself,               flow of fnds to agencies lmple-             extent that some donors are espected to make ther
weak donor coordination, absenc of              mentino the program   It ma*ndate           support available through PAf, it will mucb tncrease
coordlistioe  atructurs  at state-              OPA to minntain 11.1 so  with donors;       Governmet capacity to coordinat dmonr inputs; a
leve or bele)).                                 strucutre for coordinAtion at               condition of dtihremant for Phas  It euprojects to
*tate-level and below Is called for,        preparation by PAf of a pian for establishing
but is yet to be implemeted;                state-level population coordination and planning
Work Plan Is similarly sileat               mechanisms.
regardin  control of fund, but
does call for the *otablishment
of state population comitte_
(more permnwent structur   not
mentioned, but their developmnt
has bee pert of OPA's own
program l the pat).
9.  Need to malnlan  ierts ctorul               9.  Policy has very strong comiteat         9.  Estabis Omet of PAF gIvs wide flexibility for
mnotre of progras wbhic  omid be                to an interoectoral progrm;                 Interested agencies to coew forward with their
jopardlie  by placement of OPA                 Work Plan Is also bigbly inter-             propols; veting approval athority In a broadly u 
te s opewational ministry.                      setoral in ature, involving                 bsWed linterag y group (NCO) belpe ensure          to
nartly a dome  differt  os                  prrvatlo  of auiti-aectrai nture of progr". e m
In Its preparatioA ad, provided                                                                Lix
funding t forthaominge Ito execution.



OVEMOWET  RESPOF SE                             PROJECt ACTIONS A CoMDMONALITIES
IiW FAR
10. Monitortnag and anluation (lE)              10.  Policy has  aJor section devoted       10. Bank has  oiced concero over the pieceeal
otratogy/capacity are legging behind            to ME;  Work Plan has eeries of             approach to ME nd has prepared oen
other part  of the program.                     discrete ME activities, but do.             euggertions on the topic (Annex 2-8); attempts
not provide an overall strategy to          hav*  bee madde to have. set of agreed indicators
link thm and to foster appropriate          for achb Phase I subproject, but this hos aot been
ME content In Individual activittie.        fully successful; this leseu will be eddreeeld
during oarlj discurston with PAF managemet.
11. Limited coemlttmett to us                   11. Pollcy has strong ettemante             11. PAF wold include  e mal, but   rentd rre
of 1400 and prlvate sector                      aoui fsill utilizatilo  of the             for "we' subprojecte.
roesorc".                                       res"ures of NOOn ed  other private
bodies; Work Plan propose  some
explicit activities to make
contact with 1400 to disews their
role In the pr"ram, but the
I                                               level of financial $spport
is quite oidest.
12. Inadequate budgetary support                12. Policy is, me noted eboev,              12. In view t  tf nw       of this progams, the Bank
b.g. eves the les ambitious                      largoly silont about the required          anticipates certain difficulties to reaching adequate
fertility reduction targets                      leveI or sources and flow of fuds          l       of dbmstic funding for the porem for many
considered mare feastile by the                  for the progrm; Work Plan to               years to Com  aNd 1 tbereore propo sng to mike
B..  wold reqtre an anual                        similarly sliest on theea                  cocestonal funding  avallablo to cover the bighest
populatio  budget of roughly                     eattOers   ltboiag  It doe  conttai        percentag  costa permitted by preent tank politcies;
.100 militoo over the net                        many ;tional cost ftigure  for             to reduc  the2 brdoen on lower leves of Govermst
te yoars - See *annx 2-14).                      activities.                                aod 100., where the ability or willingnes to allocat
funds for poplatieo  Is expectOed to be loe  tbha  at the
Fdebral level  tbe Ban4' propoed share of flonacing
would bo highbr ad would he previded a smbventieo
from the Fedrl  .ovenent.
$eturot IDA staff, April 1W0
a  en
*v Ill
o i
. x-



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of S
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Provisional List of Types of Activities, Organized by StrategY.
that Would Be Eligible for PAP Funding
As confirmed at negotiations, the following are the acUivities, as
defined by specific strategies of the National Population Policy, that
would be initially eligible for submission to the Population Activities
Fund (PAP) as part of subproject proposals and that could be funded with
IDA's contributions to PAF, provided they meet other agreed criteria. The
numbering scheme that follows is taken from tte policy and has been used in
preparation of the initial three-year rolling population work plan, which
has been the major source of this list. Adjustments in this list may be
agreed from time to time as new rolling plans are prepared. For the full
statement of the corresponding entries in Part 5 of the policy itself. see
Annex 2-4.
5. Strategies for the Implementation of the Population Polky
5.1      Family Planning and Fertility Regulations
5.1.3    Activities to raise the age at first marriage;
5.1.4(a) Activities to promote better understanding of the value of family
planning (FP) on family well-being;
5.1.4(b) Activities to incorporate FP into maternal and child health (NCR)
services;
5.1.S    Activities to make voluntary FP services available to all couples
at affordable prices (except general efforts to expand the basic
health infrastructure);
5.1.6    Activities to assist sterile and sub-fertile couples to conceive;
5.1.7    Activities to make a variety of FP available and to ensure
informed choice by users;
5.1.8    Activities to broaden access to FP servicesicommodities through
community-based delivery systems and commercial distribution;
5.1.9    Activities to educate the population in local communities to the
values of PPs
5.1.10   Activities to ensure incorporation of PP into adult education and
training;
5.1.11   Activities to reach men with appropriate messages about FPs



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 5
5.1.12   Training and other activities to make PP services more responsive
to local cultural values and practices;
5.1.13   Activities to improve planning and management of NCH/FP programs;
and
5.1.14   Activities to improve FP programs through improved manpower
planning and training, through development of cost effective
approaches, and through monitoring and evaluation.
5.2      Maternal and Child Health:
5.2.2    Activities to provide education on basic PHC interventions linked
with FP; and
5.2.5    Activities that actively integrate measures to reduce high risk
pregnancies with FP.
5.3      Role and Responsibilities of Men in Family Life:
5.3.2    Activities to provide men with required education on their
responsibility for having an appropriate family size;
5.3.3    Activities to provide men with an adequate understanding of the
impact of age and frequency of child birth etc. on the health and
welfare of women and their children;
5.3.5    Activities to encourage men to limit family size to the number
they can adequately provide for; and
5.3.6    Activities that will educate families on the disadvantages of
alloving their daughters marriage at too young an age.
5.4      Role and Status of Women in Development:
5.4.6    Activities that integrate population, PP, or related content into
education and information programs oriented to the needs of woen;
5.4.7    Activities that promote wide availability of maternity leave, but
limiting it to the first four pregnancies; and
5.4.8    Activities to make PP information and services widely available to
women at or near their places of work.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 5
5.5      Children and Youths
5.5.2    Activities to facilitate the integration of population, family
life education, or FP information, as appropriate, into the
curricula of vocational or technical training institutes;
5.5.5    Activities to incorporate appropriate content on population,
family life, and responsible parenthood into all formal education
programs; and
5.5.7    Education and other activities to encourage delayed marriage.
5.6      Population Education and Information:
5.6.1    Activities to dissemination demographic and other population
information to policy makers, administrators, research, and the
general public in easily understood formats;
5.6.2    Activities to establish and foster use of population data banks;
5.6.3(a) Training and related activities to prepare specialists in
population education and information;
5.6.3(b) Activities to use any and all available channels of comnunicatlon
to convey population education and information;
5.6.4    Activities to set up and use appropriate machinery for sex/
fertility education and information at community level; and
5.6.5    Activities that would set up coordinating bodies in population
information and education and would enable them to make use of all
available channels--schools, adult education programs, and the
mass media.
5.8      Population Data Collection, Training and Researchs
5.8.1    Activities to strengthen and expand vital registration;
5.8.2    Activities to ensure timely processing, analysis, and
dissemination of vital statistics and related data;
5.8.3(b) Conduct of periodic demographic sample surveys and related data
collection activities between censuses;
5.8.4    Activities to ensure timely processing, analysis, and
dissemination of census and similar demographic data;
5.8.6    Workshops and other activities to promote the utilization and
application to planning etc. of census and similar demographic



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 5
data; and
5.8.7    Research and related activities on socio-cultural aspects of
population and operations research on population programs.
6. Institutional and Organizational Structure for Policy Implementation
6.1      Private and Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs):
6.1.1    Activities to promote the involvement of NOOs and other private
organizations in the population program;
6.1.2    Activities to encourage NGOs to contribute in a coordinated
fashion to the implementation of the population program;
6.1.3    Activities to promote wide public participation, especially at the
community level, in the design, implementation, and evaluation of
the population program; and
6.1.4    Activities to encourage technical cooperation and sharing of
information with other countries regarding the development of
population policies and the implementation of population programs.
6.2      Department of Population Activities (DPA), Similar Bodies at State
Level, etc.s
6.2.1    Activities to harness the resources of and foster closer
cooperation between the public and private sectors in the
Implementation of the population program;
6.2.2(a) Activities to promote adequate liaison among all levels of
government and with NGOs with regard to population and development
linkages;
6.2.2(b) Activities to monitor the effects of the national population
program;
6.2.2(c) Activities to facilitate adequate planning and coordination of the
population program at all levels;
6.2.2(d) Monitoring and coordination of the flow of needed materials and
the appropriate management thereof throughout the system;
6.2.2(e) Periodic meetings and other activities to facilitate coordination
among implementing agencies at all levels;
6.2.3    Provision of required resources to permit DPA and related bodies
to perform the above tasks; and



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 5
6.2.4    Activities to permit the effective and efficient functioning of
the National Consultative Group on Population for Development, its
various subcommittees, and its secretariat.
7. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.1(a)   Monitoring and evaluation of the extent to which PP services and
information are readily available;
7.1(b)   Monitoring and evaluation of the extent to which the available FP
services andlor information are safe, effective, acceptable, and
affordable;
7.2      Monitoring and evaluation of activities by each sectoral agency to
help assess the extent the policy objectives are being met;
7.3      Assessment of the effectiveness of the program at the aggregate
level in terms of demographic impact etc. and at the household
level in terms, for instance, of the utilization of services and
impact on fertility;
7.4      Assessment of the extent to which the fertility reduction targets
of the policy are being achieved;
7.5      Creation or strengthening of systems for providing appropriate
management information system within the context of program and
program-related activities;
7.6      Development of innovative approaches to the evaluation of program
activities at the commity level and to the utilization of
incentives to foster broad participation in the program;
7.7      Activities to mobilize all national experts in population to
evaluate and reorient the national population program; and
7.8      Conduct of specific impact research on population activities.
8. Leadership
8.2      Activities that will promote the understanding of, support for,
and participation in various facets of the population program by
leaders and leadership groups at every level.
Sources Extracted from Government's 1990-92 Population Work Plan, March
1990.



sNIM1A K%411NN. NR*.ATIO OJtilT
Cemparalv, P,i Is of Pte  I bherojecte
u    * do             golgIcg  JeerUe                                                                                          lice of               Ioalib.l aae                          Three.?..
1. Iot841.             FlIp f  at S             sapasai  of NOW 1    cWivitila            U Sld2 1 tIC                       Total  elliose          FPailpH ll"e,h
of    ie   l       SinSos. oSC              at. esmosi  le 14w1l thnu.                 Ms* ens por                       of cord Los              Division- 4 fedecal
ICpt..,AW. fatresethemd rm_saeal "a                                00late: sr lS                      to,       5.4           ma"$ RC Ot f eof ;                         ".7es
Fa l .iep,   hablittaikA  t               Afe I. ye, we                      aillles; actal          22 otao FP cowodiatars'
facilitee. sad poeeval.ao                                                    tat  * e still          office.s; 22 01 Welth
owptsa. %ramassrt. eNd                                                       to he Got               59ices
eapliet laeraad   acwlf
gib 0"&GSG    Lo  for
develept eS eiofail
.prm6lea               Imalt  dueatlaa          Waite ztilmts  laledud                  slon atlit.ISse           1           SA iu1proiect         h"*I* Education oranch.
Ft t               a   * Sc, mb  neonaaa fV relatd _a                                  is 11 tlS _s aep ls               I abov                   4 Federal nasa Sc offici;
Sha_ th 948ce      b4.. AFM                 loa. *atituda"i,                               s .  Jor peat ee  LOAm aaje  foam                       frioa IseSenv4  saith                   84.6
Wom                                         ane dObjeciwe l*ate etieathe              as U0 LO VaW psi                                            Ideto, Cnte, rIhed                     ao
v. gas heath adneatien                    Suhproeject, I ena                                          I Iwti  ta .ni. to be
siaehrutsra                                                                                           eseler*|d; U  eutes fS
off ice; 1OA Weath Offices
.  ft.rp               b tstJ Ssvic             Pl ision of tlechical trainas.              iltiallJ aie  served             Vt peesitie tAU          Oo. of Obesterhiaa ah
Coot,e. far        & Trasalg Set..          s_i.ilel_S. _ad roosrbr with              by tahlns hagfitala lb              eotk                    Sgeeolou at. tacliae
Ftapredwme"e        wl,  ad fo"              ei  te eentraepivo le.,wiea.               _,. t1d,, ilaidui,irel hoiteDs Ut0  r val4t.is
ibelth              tachieg blostitsoI      beuiae o9  aide  ffoa* and                 sod Zd Rn; aeateelb a..                                    of Shades. Vidugri  sad
fasllisa of  DWI-       Irstoun af Isfsrliiitg  ad                  ddllal hepetais is                                        Nigeria NWd as le  t      o, ea   ae
slow                    ather cnpoduelie ptshsie.                  each samne                                                 thivaraily
partsewlarlwp as the fitallar
aed asceadeug lawsie of heath
4. PFali               Sue. of &Salmi rt,eethsing the lfoaetl_a                           soee act.Vlle  "tis aide.           it pooesble                  1_tabil at ot fPp. baef. a
fblIIs* ^tlb    A.lSIc   & pubic            eas,o eGo 0 1e i to sn ima take           other. Is 1ll esphais tAU.         to oetmate               C.Ichizea   BroA  la fSlj
am ft.ilateiaU    IbliAteomeA. Fedas  pulic aSianu eOW0t1i,t   Is                    sad met ises. efforts tstonisiag A docusstatles enpec-                                                24a
Niiatigr of Inferstise  supperS et populttio  ad family            asow Ut L"o as Subprojecta                                 ties at Natioal iat.itue" of
ploning aisad at aeiose targt             I sad I                                                    PbiSc 1sf. (Mad...); Iraisiog
adiences. .epwscitg vanies. lador-                                                                   at UaLSA  ed Mecemhr Stae previsono-
.blp mi-me.j aleg with the  uae,ari                                                                  Most Sal. at tel. S Tecbioa.lej
pllilc                                                                                               anteilat dtloUepeest. at. a
sithbrs state TV Stat.iao. ec.
"i^|~~~ 21** 
£ Z
4 m
X
o 
N



s     X*                                 I   8                                       ANNEX 3-3
E J l X l  ^   g  .  |   |                                   ~~~~~~Page 2 of?2
i !i                i           ii  i
+a ]i                ' 7 3  3i
ii ,        l                  i3    
*}  4.- tg          IIx - 



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 17
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of the Appraisal of a Subgro2ect on
Integration of Family Planning into Maternal and Child Health
Family Health Division, Federal Ministry of Health
A. Backaround
1.        Although death rates in Nigeria have been declining due to
modernization, the fertility rate has remained high. This has resulted in
rapid population growth, currently estimated at 3.12, which has several
important negative consequences on socioeconomic development. One such
consequence is the likely constrained growth in GNP; hence, per capita
income would grow only by a little more than 12 annually. Of equal
importance is the impact of sustained high fertility on health.
2.        It has been well documented that the reproductive pattern of
many Nigerians is one that has been associated with adverse health
consequences. Maternal mortality accounts for about 20-502 of deaths among
Nigerian women of reproductive age. In some rural areas, SOX of the women
who start childbearing at the age of 15 or 16 have died from fertility
related causes before reaching 50 (Sai). Based cr. surveys and data from
hospitals and health centers, it has been estimai-ed that for every 100,000
births, 200-600 women die. These rates are 100-500 times higher than those
that obtain in developed countries. They may in actual fact even
underestimate the problem, since they are based on data from institutional
settings and therefore represent the experience of only a minority of
women.
3.        Pregnancies among adolescents, women over 35, and women who have
had many previous births, as well as birth intervals of less than two
years, are more likely to involve life threatening complications. Nigeria
has one of the highest levels of early childbearing in the world. It is
the norm in many Nigerian societies to marry young. Recent surveys in
northern Nigeria show that 432 of girls aged 14 were married. Ten percent
of women of reproductive age reported that they had their first child
before the age of 14, and nearly one in five infants born to mothers aged
17 or under die during the perinatal period (Ladipo, Omu). A major problem
is that very young mothers have not finished growing. Thus, the young
mother's pelvis is relatively small and pregnancy related complications,
including obstructed labor, vesico-vaginal fistula, and cephalo-pelvic
disproportion, are common.
4.        Hemorrhage is much more common in elderly women with many
children and the overall risks of serious complications and maternal deaths
increase steeply after the third or fourth child birth (Maine et &I.). In
Nigeria, grandmultiparous women (those who have had five or more
pregnancies) are responsible for 17-212 of all births (Ladipo). At the
University Hospital in Benin City, women having their fifth or subsequent



- 83 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 17
delivery account for 55 of maternal deaths but only 172 of all deliveries
(Omu).
5.        When contraceptive services are not easily available, women
resort to other methods to avoid unwanted childbearing. In Nigeria, it is
estimated that over 300,000 pregnancies end up in abortion per annum
(Ladipo). In Benin City over 602 of women who have abortions are
adolescents (Omu).
6.        To address the above health and related problems, the Federal
Government has adopted two very important policiess the National Health
Policy in 1987 and the National Population Policy (NPP) in 1988.
Constraints and Problems
7.        Despite these policies and related activities, there are still
serious constraints. The contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) is still very
low: estimated at about six percent, two-thirds of which consists of
traditional methods. One of the targets in the NPP is to reduce the
currently high total fertility rate of 6.2 to 4.0 by the year 2000. Using
a model devised by the Population Council, it has been possible to
calculate the implications of this target in terms of the required CPRS
the CPR would need to climb from the current level of about 62 to over 45?
of all married women to achieve this ambitious target. The model also
generates cost estimates for achieving such a rapid increase in
contraceptive use, which are also indicative of the level of effort
required. It has been documented that a couple year of protection (CYP)
costs between US$30-SO per year. The cost of achieving the target would be
in the order of US$200 million per year. This figure is far above the
US$80 million that major donors have promised to provide over the next five
years. Bence, if adequate financial arrangements are not made, lack of
financial resources will become a real constraint to achievement of this
target.
8.        Antther reason for the low CPR stems from poor program
management. Until now not enough attention has been paid to providing
management and technical capability to a cc.*e of managers within the
Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) to enable them to direct and manage the
Population/PP Programme themselves. Hany of the past FP activities have to
a large extent been managed by donor agencies and have not been directly
managed by PMOH.
9.        Expansion of PP activities has also been hampered by lack of
appropriate means of transportation and communication. Consequently, the
supervision of PP service providers and follow up of PP clients are both
limited. There is a tendency for the Community Health Extension Workers
(CHEWs) to become clinic-based because of lack of transportation. Lack of
communication at all levels also contributes to poor program management and
performance.
10.       There is need to develop manpower--both qualitatively and
quantitatively--to manage the Population/P" Programme. Although over the
years over 2,000 health workers have been trained in PP, most of those



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 17
trained are concentrated either in hospitals or at state headquarters.
Many of those who are actually providing the services lack specific skills
in dealing with family planning cases, e.g., skills in motivation and
counselling, surgical contraception, insertion of intra-uterine
contraceptive devices (IUDs), and managing PP services.
11.       General hospitals are often staffed by general purpose medical
officers without training in FP and who are consequently unable to provide
the needed back-up. In addition, these practitioners often have a high
turnover rate, which does not augur well for continuity of care.
12.       Inadequate infrastructure constitutes an additional constraint.
In most states it is only in urban centers that strong attempts are made to
provide PP services. Where such services exist, the space allocated for
privacy is inadequate. General hospitals do not have the necessary
infrastructure to provide voluntary surgical contraception in a way that is
acceptable to potential users.
13.       It is only in the last couple of years that many facilities
providing PP services have been equipped with standard FP equipment, such
as examination couches, pelvic examination instruments, and appropriate
lighting systems for physical examinations. However, adequately equipped
facilities are still in the minority. In Plateau State for example, only
about 25Z of the PP service points are adequately supplied with such
equipment.
The Family Health Division (PHD), Department of Primary Health Care (PMCA
14.       PHD in the Department of PHC (PNOH) will be responsible for
implementation of this subproject. FMOH stresses implementation of PlC
starting with the grassroots so as to ensure that activities improve the
lot of the comunnity, prevent episodes of illness before they become
hospital cases, and ensure community participation. FHD was established in
1987 with the mandate to provide policy guidance and strategic support to
the state and local governments to strengthen and implement MCH, including
PP. The coordination, monitoring, and evaluation mechanisms for these
programs are being developed by FHD. PHD's responsibilities include
overall supervision of MCH/FP services, both institution- and community-
based, and in-service education in support of these services. FHD is
staffed by 18 persons with various backgrounds in health and nutrition as
well as PP.
Relationships between PHD and states, LGAs, and districts
15.       PHD's relationship with states, local government administrations
(LGAs), and districts is derived from its mandate stated above, which
authorizes it to facilitate the implementation of MCH/FP activities at all
levels. The staffing pattern at each level of administration is structured
in such a way that it can, in principle, provide back-up services to the
next lower level.
Rationale for PHD's Involvement in the National Population Programme



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 17
16.       PHD is the public sector division that has been given the
mandate to make FP services accessible and available to the population,
especially those living in semi-urban and rural areas. This mandate
includes the responsibility to structure the system and further mobilize
human resources for the implementation of the MCHIFP Programme. PHD
provides a natural base for the promotion of MCH/PP information and
services for the public.
FHD's Current Population/FP Activities and Sources of Funding
17.       Although MCH/FP services have been provided in the country for
many years, it was not until 1987 that the Government first identified
itself solidly with populationlFP activities. It consolidated the existing
services and created PHD within the PHC Department. This move should be
seen as significant as it filled a vacuum that hitherto existed in the
populationlFP field. It also hes provided Government with the chance to
build up a core of population/FP program managers, which will enable
Nigeria to take control of its own population program.
18.       As a new division, FHD is still in the process of building up
its capabilities. Its current activities involve recruiting staff,
providing orientation courses for staff, and developing the necessary
mechanisms and instruments for monitoring and coordinating MCHIFP services.
Because FHD is still in the formative stages, external bodies such as
USAID's cooperating agencies have had to execute programs themselves,
tending simply to invite FHD as a participant in these programs. To date,
PHD's main sources of funding have been the Federal Government and UNPPA.
FHD's Linkages with Other Agencies
19.       A ministerial Subcommittee on MCHI/PP and Women in Health was
inaugurated by the Hon. Minister of Health in 1989. It is chaired by PHD.
The subcommittee affords participating agencies the opportunity to discuss
and share their strategic plans to ensure that their inputs do not overlap.
All international agencies involved in FP have also been invited to
participate in the subcommittee's deliberations.
20.       Currently, PHD is .participating in PP programs being executed by
the Pathfinder Pund and UNPPA. The Pathfinder Fund is responsible for the
Public Sector Component of the USAID-funded Family Health Services (FHS)
project. PHS provides oral contraceptives, IUDs, and barrier methods. P1D
is discussing with the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception
(AVSC) a project proposal whereby sterilization will be provided in four
comprehensive PHC centers, one in each of the four health zones. PHD has
been involved with AFRICARE's program to provide clinical equipment for the
national PP program. Finally, UNFPA helps FHD financially and technically
in the execution of projects that seek to strengthen FP services. UNFPA
also provides the national FP Programme with injectables as well as some
oral contraceptives.
Process of Preparation of the Subprolect



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 17
21.       Commissioning, supervising, and coordinating preparation of the
original subproject proposal was the responsibility of FPD in cooperation
with the Department of Population Activities (DPA). Two local management
firms were appointed by the PMOH in consultation with UNFPA and the World
Bank to assist with the development of the original proposal, and they, in
turn, mobilized a number of MCM and family planning specialists, primarily
from various universities in different regions of the country. A Task
Force consisting of FHD staff was set up to oversee the activities.
Overall responsibility for directing the work rested with the Chief
Consultant/Deputy Director of the PHC Department and head of FHD.
22.       The preparation team visited four LGAs, one in each of the four
health zones of the Federation. These LAs were in Cross River, Oyo,
Kaduna, and Plateau states; Badagry LGA in Lagos State was also visited.
Examples of both well-developed and poorly run PP services were seen.
During the site visits state and LGA health officials were interviewed.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
Suboroject Objectives
23.       The goal of this subproject is to increase the social well-being
of semi-urban and rural Nigerians, especially in the area of family health,
by promoting systematic FP practices within the context of MCH. The
subproject will accomplish this by increasing and strengthening the
management and technical capacity of FHD and its state-level counterparts
to respond better to the MCHIPP needs of LGAs and by enabling the LGAs, in
turn, to extend coverage of MCH/FP services from the central administrative
level of the LGA through to the district and village levels.
24.       The specific objectives of the subproject ares
(a)  To provide support for an expansion of MCHIFP activities in 22
underserved, model PHC LGAs with a population of about 5.5
million, thereby increasing the number of families receiving FP
information and services;
(b) To strengthen FHD at national and zonti levels (i.e., the zonal
PHC coordinators' offices) to entable it to manage the national
MCHIPP Programme and to increase the management and technical
capacity of FHD staff, thereby permitting better execution of
its mandate, which includes program planning at the national
level, provision of guidelines for MCH/FP services, monitoring
and coordinating of FP services at all levels, provision of in-
service education, and review of FP project proposals from
states, LGAs, and women's groups on behalf of the Population
Activities Fund (PAF);
(c) To strengthen the 1CH/FP offices in the states' PHC departments
tc enable them to better manage CHM/PP services by increasing
the management and technical capacity of the staff thereby
permitting better execution of their mandate, which includes



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 17
program planning at state level; provision of technical and
managerial assistance to village, district and central levels of
LGAs; orderly execution of MCHIFP programs; monitoring and
coordination of MCH/FP services at state levell provision of in-
service education; and support for LGAs and women's groups in
the development of project proposals for funding through PAP;
and
(d) To establish FP pilot activities consisting of community-based
health and FP (CBH&FP) programs in 22 LGAs. These programs are
intended tot
ti) Demonstrate to other LGAs and states how MCH/1 P services
should be implemented; and
(ii) Provide opportunities for MCH/FP staff to obtain experience
in managing FF services in order eventually to be able to
spearhead expansion of MCH/PP services throughout the
country.
Relationship between Subproiect and National Population Policy/Proaramme
25.       This subproject seeks to address the major issue in the National
Population Policy, namely, the need for fertility reduction. In addition,
a review of the Work Plan on the Implementation of Population Programmes
indicates that this subproject has taken into account the detailed
activities outlined under Strategy 5.1, Family Planning and Fertility
Regulation. Specifically, the following activities are particular relevant
to this subproject:
Ca) 5.1.04 (a)--The value of Family Planning and Child Spacing on
the stability and well being of the family shall be promoted;
Cb) 5.1.04 (b) (Nos. 2, 4 i - vii) and 5.1.05 (b) (No. 9)--
Government shall ensure the availability of famlly planning
services to all couples and individuals seeking such services at
affordable prices on a voluntary basis;
(c) 5.1.06 (a & b) (Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6)--Family planning services shall
include services to sterile and sub-fertile couples as well as
individuals who want to have children to achieve self-
fulfillment;
(d) 5.2.5--For the sake of the health of the mother and child
specific programmes, including family planning services, shall
be devised and put into effect to reduce the incidence of high
risk births which occur below the age of 18 and over the age of
35 years, at intervals of less than two years and more than four
in number; and
(e)  5.2.4--Measures shall be taken urgently to increase the level of
awareness on health Rnd family planning attained by women as an
end in itself and because of its close link to child spacing and



- 88 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 17
survival. All available information shall be made easily
accessible and disseminated throughout the country.
Description of Activities to be Carried Out under the Subproiect
26.       Scope and phasing.  Geographically the subproject will cover 22
LGAs, one in each of the 21 states of the Federation plus the Federal
Capital Territory. The subproject wilz he carried out over three years
with about one-third of the LGAs being brought into the scheme each year.
A list of these 22 LGAs is attached to this annex.
27.       Components.  Activities to be carried out as part of this
subproject can be grouped into four componentss (a) strengthening the
management and administrative capability of FHD and of the four zonal PEC
offices under FMOH, (b) strengthening the management of institution-based
MCHIFP at state and LGA level, (c) establishment and management of CBU&FP
programs in 22 selected LGAs, and (d) establishment of an effective MCHIFP
in-service education capacity.
28.       Strengthening the maragement and administration capabilit_  of
FHD. For FHD to execute its responsibilities effectively, it is necessary
to identify areas of responsibility and assign personnel to each of them to
focus on its effective development. Three clear-cut areas of
responsibility in this regard ares
(a)  Strengthening management of institution-based MCH|FP services;
(b) Establishment and management of CBH&FP programs (initially in 22
LGAs); and
(c) Establishment of and staff development for in-service education
with special reference to refresher courses in MCHIFP for all
cadres MCH/FP workers 11. This would also include provision of
l/Details on the four cadres specified for purposes of this subproject are
briefly as follows:
Cadre I: Medical Officers based in comprehensive PHC centers, who
will be trained in surgical contraception and back-up referral
services (1 per LGA);
Cadre II: Nurselmidwives, who will be able to insert IUDs, manage
clinics, and supervise field staff (5 per LGA);
Cadre III: Community Health Extension Workers (CHEWs), (10 per LGA)
who will be trained to provide all forms of temporary contraception,
including injectables; and
Cadre IV: Community-Based Health and Family Planning (CBH&FP)
Workers, (150 per LGA) i.e., volunteers, traditional bi.rth
attendants, etc., who will provide non-prescriptive IP methods.



- 89 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 8 of 17
guidelines and assistance in training of commiunty-based
workers.
For purposes of administration these areas of responsibility shall be
referred to as sections. This division of labor will make it easier to
identify areas needing strengthening and incremental staff.
29.       For strengthening the management and administration capability
of FHD, long-term training in pertinent public health disciplines will be
provided for three staff members, and short-term training in PP management,
for 15 staff members. Workshops integrating MCH and PP will be organized
for health personnel involved in delivering MCI/PP services. To facilitate
coordination at all level3 and communication among staff, management
meetings will be organized for staff to develop strategic plans, and
provision will be made for supervisory and support visits to LGAs.
30.       Specific inputs to be provided in order to strengthen FHD and
the zonal PHC offices are as follows:
(a) Training aad human resource development, including supervision
(which in all cases will emphasize management of coumunity-level
activities):
(i) Long-term training for three persons (e.g., Masters in
Public Health or in Health Sciences);
(ii) Short-term training (i.e., about six weeks) in FP or
population program management;
(iii)  Provision for study tours to visit successful PP programs
in Africa for 12 persons, each of about two weeks duration
(four per year over three years);
(iv) Provision for local concultants to provide specialized
inputs or substitute for staff on training (36 person-
months);
(v) Supervisory and support visits to LGAs in order to assist
in establishing new MCH/FP outlets in 110 (5 s 22) health
facilities phased over three years at the rate of 40, 35,
and 35 each year;
(vi) Close collaboration with the Health Education Branch of the
PHC Department, which is being strengthened through another
subproject, in developing appropriate educational materials
for MCH/FP.
(b) Workshops on Integration of FP into MCH at national and zonal
levels. Health personnel from the PHC Department and
administrators from states and LGAs will be invited, totalling
about 240. This series will mark the launching of the MCHIFP
Programme;



- 90 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 9 of 17
(c)  Provision of three temporary facilities ("portakabins') to
accomuodate 20 people or the refurbishment of about three
offices;
(d) Provision of office equipment for FUD and four zonal offices--
for PHDs one word processor plus software, two typewriters, one
photocopier, and one duplicating machines for the four zonal
officess one typewriter and one duplicating machine each.
(e)  Provision of two four-wheel drive vehicles;
(f)  Provision of per diem and travel allowances for workshops,
supervisory visits, and various operating costs.
31.       Strengthening management of institution-based MCN/FP.  This
component will also entail strengthening of the offices of State MeNI/P
Coordinators to provide support in training, management and supervision for
village and district 21 levels of LGAs. A total of 220 health workers (10
per state) with family planning training background will be given
additional skills in FP logistics, management, and supervision to be
responsible for management and supervision of institution-based MCRIPP
services. In addition, 22 medical officers and 110 nurse-midwives will be
trained in various aspects of FP such as voluntary surgical sterilization,
insertions of IUDs, and clinical and barrier methods of PP in order to be
responsible for management and delivery of institutional-based FP services.
32.       Twenty-two model PHC LGAs, one per state, are to be selected for
participation in this subproject. Five health facilities, one of which
should be a comprehensive PHC center, will be identified in each LGA. In
all, 110 health facilities will be involved. Refurbishment of facilities
will be undertaken where needed. Eight LGAs (i.e., a total of 40
facilities) will participate in the first year; for the second year and
again for the third year, seven LGAs will participate (i.e. a total of 35
facilities each year).
33.       The following inputs will be provided under this components
(a) Training at the state level:
(i) To serve as supervisors and managers of institution-based
MCHR/FP services, 220 health workers with PP training
background (10 per state) will receive four weeks' training
in FP logistics, clinic management and supervision (all to
be trained in the first year);
(ii) Institutional training for the following cadres as PP
service providerst
2/A district is a subdivision of an LGA and consists of several villages.



- 91 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 10 of 17
(1)  Cadre Is a medical officer (MO) from each
comprehensive PHC center (one per LGA); four weeks'
training in FP management, including surgical
contraception techAiques; 22 MOs trained in two
courses over the tirst six months. At the end of the
training, participants will be able to conduct
sterilizations, insert IUDs, manage FP complications,
and manage clients with systemic illnesses who wish to
be on PP methods;
(2)  Cadre II: five FP providers per LGA; six weeks'
training in PP clinic management including insertion
of IUDs; 110 nurselmidwives trained over two years--
three courses in the first year and two courses in the
second year. At the end of the training, participants
will be able to insert IUDs, initiate all FP methods,
and manage PP clinics;
(iii) Refresher courses: four one-week workshops per year on
integration of MCH/FP issues for state, LGA, and district
FP coordinators and supervisors (60 persons per workshop
per health zone for four workshops a year over three years
- 720 participants);
(iv) In-service education for other levels of staffs for
midwives in-service education will be provided in maternal
care and PP [the content of in-service training and the
training schedule need further discussion);
(b) Servicess
(i) Integration of FP into MCH: identification of five PHC
facilities, including one comprehensive PHC center, in each
of the 22 selected LGAs totalling 110 outlets and
integration of PP into existing MCH services at each.
(ii) Two levels of family planning care can be identified at
LGAs:
(1)  The first line of support and back-up for the CBH&PP
workers (Cadres III & IV) is the institution-based
MCHIPP services at the PHC center, where clients can
be given a physical examination as well as all
temporary PP methods including IUDs;
(2)  The second line of support and back-up for Cadres IV,
III, and TT is the institution-based MCH/FP services
at the comprehensive PHC center, where all FP methods
including sterilization can be obtained. Clients with
systemic illnesses wishing to be on a method can be
attended as well as those with any complications. It
is proposed that to support the voluntary
sterilization activities at the Comprehensive PIM



- 92 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 11 of 17
Center, a separate project proposal be developed with
AVSC to enable FHD to focus on all issues involved in
offering this method.
(iii) Staffing patternss tat comprehensive PHC centers, at
institution-based MCHIPP centers, and at village level are
still to be discussed];
(iv) Management and supervision:
(1) The FHD is currently developing various support
systems for the MCHIFP program with assistance from
USAID. These include: a supervisory system; strategic
and financial planning; clinical service procedures;
and various components of the management information
system. These institutional resources will be applied
in the management of the services;
(2) Management meetings involving state, LGA, and district
MCHIiP coordinators, supervisors, aid senior staff
members will be conducted in each health zone (60 per
meeting x 4 health zones). Staff will share
experiences and work on strategic plans, field
problems, and solutions;
(3) Provision for State MCHIFP coordinators to conduct
supervisory and support visits to LGAs and to assist
LGAs in establishing the 110 new MCHIFP outlets;
(4) Provision for per diem and travel allowances for
supervision duties and attendance at workshops;
(5) Supervision chain: the front-line supervisors of the
CBH&FP workers will be the CHEWs, of which 440 will be
trained under this subproject. Each CHEW will
supervise the work of seven or eight CBH&PP workers.
For administration purposes all of the CBH&FP workers
reporting to one CHEW will be known as a group, and
therefore there will be 440 groups within the CBH&P
program;
(6) To enable CHEWs to work more efficiently, it is
intended that they be provided with bicycles or
motorbikes;
(7) CHEWs will be supported by LGA PP supervisors 31.
Forty-four LGA FP supervisors (two per LGA) will be
prepared under this subproject. Each LGA PP
I/The title of LGA PP Supervisor is acquired through promotion. An LOA PP
Supervisor has been trained in PP and has acquired experience in delivering
PP services.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 12 of 17
supervisor will be responsible for about 10 CHEWs.
Each LGA FP supervisor will also be given a bicycle or
a motorbike. LGA FP supervisors vill be responsible
to the State FP Coordinators, who in turn will be
answerable to FHD;
(8) It has been agreed in principle that each FP service
provider will be given targets for acceptors to work
towards. The details remain to be worked out.
(v) Referral chain: mechanisms will be devised so that a
client at any level who wishes to obtain a method not
available at that level can be referred to the appropriate
level of care;
(vi) Cost recovery: the sale of contraceptives is not uniform.
It was agreed that to be able to measure the impact of this
subproject uniformly, contraceptives will be sold at the
same price in every participating state. Mechanisms for
cost recovery will be developed later;
5c) Equipment and supplies:
(i) At state level: office equipment for 22 states: one
typewriter and one duplicating machine for the office of
each State PP Coordinator; and
(ii) At LGA level for institution-based MCH/FPs PP equipment
and supplies for the 110 model NCH/FP outlets (a detailed
list has been prepared);
(d) Refurbishment of service facilitiess in collaboration with FED,
state MCEIFP coordinators will assist LGAs to identify health
facilitiei needing refurbishing among the selected 110 LGA
facilities. After LGAs obtain permission to undertake
refurbishment, funds will be released on the basis of an agreed
schedule; and
(e) Various operating costs.
34.       Other operational issues remain to be discussed.  Among them are
the need to issue directives to the health services requesting that all
patients requesting PP services should be accommodated; that PP clients
presenting side effects should be taken care of and not turned away; that
health workers who have been trained in FP should be utilized for PP
service delivery; and that health workers should be aware of the existing
referral system in order to assist clients. The issue of the adequacy of
contraceptives supplies also has to be discussed further. Finally, it
appears that one important cadre--State Registered Nurses--has been left
out of the training schem proposed above and this must be discussed
further.



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 13 of 17
35.       Establishment of communitZ-based health and family planning
(CBH&FP) services. This component is an extension of MCHJPP services into
the community. Each participating LGA will be encouraged to recruit
volunteers, traditional birth attendants (TBAs), women's groups, and
village health workers (VHWI) (where they already exist) to be trained as
CBH&FP workers. Each participating LGA is expected to train about 144
CBH&FP workers under thie subproject for a total of 3,168 CBH&FP workers.
They will be trained over two years, with half (1,584) being trained ea'h
year. Training will be conducted through the combined efforts of the state
trainers and the CHEWs, assisted by the In-Service Education Section of the
PHD. CBH&P workers will be supervised by CHEWs (see above on the
"supervision chain").
36.       A number of training activities 41 will be financed under this
component of the subproject, primarily at the LGA level, as follows:
(a) Six staff members of FHD with PP training background will be
trained in training of community-based workers and in conducting
refresher courses in NCRIPP. They will be responsible for
assistingiconducting refresher courses for all MCHIPP staff and
training of CHEWs and CBH&FP workers at LGA level;
(b) Prom state/LWA/district staff with PP training background, 220
will be trained as trainers of community-based workers. They
will be responsible for continuous and on-going training of
CHEWs and CBH&FP workers in their respective LOAs. They will
train CHEWs and then together with CHEWs train CBH&FP workers;
(c) Cadre IIIs 440 CHEWs will be trained for three weeks in PP
communication skills and in initiation and delivery of PP
clinical methods, including injectables. Each LGA will train 20
CHEWs. Eight courses will be conducted per year phased over two
years;
(d) Cadre IV: 3,168 VHWs, TBAs, etc. will be trainfd in CBHO&P,
including the operation of revo,-,lng funds, fo<: three weeks (144
per LGA over two years). Training will be in 'P communication
skills and initiation and delivery of non-prescriptive PP
methods;
Ce) There will be on-going refresher courses for both Cadres III &
IV.
37.       As a result of the above training, the following PP services
will be obtainable at the village level in each LWAs
(a) Cadre III workers, i.e., CHEWs, will be able to motivate clients
for all PP methods as well as to initiate and deliver oral
41A detailed training schedule for the subproject has been prepared as part
of the overall work plan.



- 95 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 14 of 17
contraceptives, injectables, and barrier methods as part of
MCH/FP services in the field5 and
(b) Cadre IV workers, i.e., CBW&FP workers, will be able to motivate
clients for all FP methods as well as to initiate and deliver
oral contraceptives and barrier methods as part of MCH/FP
services in the field.
It is proposed that for MCHIPP services to have a quick impact at the LGA
level, the training curricula of both Cadres III & IV should be revised to
strengthen coununication skillls emphasis should be laid on motivating for
IUD and sterilization for multiparous mothers; the concept of spacing for
THREE YEARS instead of two should be introduced: and for Cadre III workers
to be more productive, they should be taught to provide injectables in the
field as part of MCHIFP services.
38.       With regard to management and supervision, the PHD section
responsible for management of the CB9&FP program will need to ensure that a
plan for implementation of both training and service delivery is in effect.
This section will monitor the services and ensure that separate quarterly
reports are issued by states and that the results are fed back to field
personnel. The CBH&FP Section will itself issue annual reports on the
program for distribution to field personnel. To support .ield supervision,
the subproject will provide bicycles/motorbikes to 440 CHEWs and to 44 LGA
PP Supervisors.
39.       Establishment of and staff development for the In-Service
Education Section. The PHD is relatively new and is staffed by health
personnel with backgrounds in various discipltnes related to MCHi/PP. To
enable effective coordination and execution of its work, in-service
education is needed to keep the staff abreast of current issues in MRC/FP.
With the adoption of the population policy, the demand for refresher
courses and workshops on MCHI/FP is escalating. Some of the FED staff need
to be trained in the special skills requlred so that they can respond
meaningfully to these demands.
40.       A core group of six staff members will be assigned
responsibility to develop the In-Service Education Section. This section
will be responsible for spearheading integration of PP training into
curricula of both health professionals and paramedicals. It will be
involved in developing and reviewing curricula and in creating guidelines
for training in PP. It will guide MCHIPP managers at the state level to
collaborate with the Health Education Branch in developing educational
materials for both clients and service providers. It will also be
responsible for identifying the training needs of FED itself and for
developing a hsman resource development plan for the division.
41.       The following inputs will be required to support the development
of the In-Service Education Sections
(a) Training of staff in Cadre II in management and logistics and in
training skills (TOT);



- 96 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 15 of 17
(b)  Training manuals, flip charts, anatomy posters, posters on VP
methods, pelvic models (22), breast models (22), and materials
to develop various audio-visual aids; and
(c)  Audio-visual equipment with necessary accessories, including
film projectors (22), slide projectors (22), overhead projectors
(22), and watching screens (66).
C. SubDroiect Management and Coordination
42.       The ultimate responsibility for the subproject lies with the
Federal Minister of Health, who has designated officers to develop and
implement this and related programs. Thus responsibility for the
Integration of PP into MCH, i.e., MCH/PP as an element of PHC, has been
assigned to FED in the PHC Department. The PHC Department is headed by the
Director and FHD by a Chief Consultant/Deputy Director (see organigram).
With special reference to management and coordination, the responsibilities
of the PHD will be to carry out the followings
(a)  Assist State VP Coordinators to develop their work plans;
(b) Initiate the development of guidelines for PP services and
promote their utilization;
(c)  Obtain and analyze PP statistics in conjunction with the
Monitoring and Evaluation Division of the department, DPA, and
MOH's Department of Planning, Research and Statistics and then
take appropriate managerial action;
(d)  Initiate seminars to determine reporting formats;
(e)  Receive, review, collate, and edit progress reports from State
VP Coordinators and issue annual reports;
(f)  Initiate national workshopslseminars on various facets of PP
services in conjunction with the state MCHIPP offices;
(g)  Ensure that each FHD staff member assigned to supervision of PP
services spends at least one-third of her or his time on
supervision and support in the statest
(h)  Guide states and LGAs to collaborate with the Health Education
Branch in development of health and family planning education
materials; and
Ci) Provide annual reports regularly to DPA.
43.       Current and incremental staff requirements for subproject have
been discussed. Of the 20 existing staff in FED, 18 can be made available
to the three sections involved in subproject implementation. It is assumed
that they would be deployed evenly as given in the chart below. In each of
the three years during which the subproject will be under implementation,



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 16 of 17
additional staff will be added. The total incrementa'. staff requirement
vill be 54 (this number is required to bring the strength of each section
up to 22, which corresponds to the number of states). This large increment
of staff is justified by the fact that it is anticipated that the
successful implementation of the subproject vill stimulate other LGAs to
request assistance to develop their MCH/FP services. This anticipated
expansion of the services will need to be supported by a substantial
expansion in PHD's capacity.
Sections         1990    1991192          1992193         1993194
Clinical Services      6      + (6)           + (6)           + (6)
CBH&FP                6       + (6)           + (6)           + (6)
In-service Training   6       + (6)           + (6)           + (6)
Monitoring and evaluation
44.       One of the methods that will be used to evaluate the subproject
vill be Sentinel Monitoring Surveys, which will be finan.ed through a
separate subproject being implemented by the National Population Commission
(NPC). Enumeration points will be ^hosev in some of the L6As participating
in the MCHMPI subproject, and in them a sample of women will be selected in
order to monitor their fertility behavior. It is proposed to have about
600 to 700 women in the sample; they will be interviewed at set intervals,
perhaps every six months, over a three-year period. It is anticipated that
results from these surveys will provide continuous feedback to program
managers and policy-makers on fertility behavior and on family planning
usage. This methodology enables even small changes in fertility to be
readily detected.
45.       For family planning services, specific indicators to be used to
monitor the performance of the subproject will include: new acceptors,
continuing users, and couple-years of protection. After the L6As have been
selected, FHD will calculate anticipated couple years of protection to be
achieved by each LGA with assistance from the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit of the PHC Department. Then, to calculate the actual couple-years of
protection achieved, service data will be used. Every PP provider will
record cases seen at each session. These will be collated monthly in each
facility and submitted through the LGA FP Supervisor to the State PP
Coordinator, who will transmit the data for the entire state to the Zonal
PHC Coordinator. From there, the service statistics will be forwarded to
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the PHC Department, whose
responsibility it is to collate and analyze the service data and to send
copies to FED. PHD, in turn, will send a copy to DPA. These service
statistics will in future be reflected in the national progress report of
FHD and be sent back as feedback to field staff. Other means of evaluation
that will be used are regular progress reports and a supervisory checklist
for assessing staff performance.
Subproiect Procurement



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 17 of 17
46.       Procurement will be instituted by the PHDIPHC through the normal
ministerial processes.
Arrangements for Coordination
47.       One of the required arrangements for coordination with other
agencies' related activities will be in relation to the sentinel monitoring
surveys, which will be conducted by the NPC. Another anticipated
arrangement for coordination will be with the Health Education Branch.
through the subproject on Promotion of Family Planning through Health
Education. The Health Education Branch and FMD will work together in the
same LOAs, synchronizing their activities so that the education component
uaid.ted for family planning services can be provided on a timely basis.
D. Anticipated Follow-on Requirements
48.       It is anticipated that after completion of this subproject, the
22 LGAs participating in this subproject may ask for the services to be
expanded to other areas within the same LGAs that are not yet covered.
Other LGAs, which vould have observed the health benefits that the
subproject has brought to the people, may come forward for assistance from
FHD to develop project proposals for development or expansion of MCHIFP
services through assistance from PAP. Religious as well as women's
organizations may also come forward for similar assistance from FED to
enable them to make use of the facilities offered by PAP. Some
organizations in the LOAs may just ask for limited aspects of the package,
such as further training.
Sources Family Health Division and IDA staff, March 1990.



{flX,-tt.-   -   ..a stu   2 i-   . 4
.;I,0. ii{5  oE U           *t2!  j  ji'  [   11, 
5~~~ *21 ii
Xe  a                             
U    O 0fe
7aou  Swzaaa5



ACTIVITIES                                  vI                    vit 2                    va
p    t  p   q      42 1                        4        p   p2 Ip
Otrlateot  otf2 PUCP   aott for I days
evr pop for 8 yes
TRAD0 AT STAM LEVEL
Trnlasa Cadre III - 440
Exat.o..   Worikra (a wko coarse)(20 a 20)          s      x                            Xs                         Xs
Traisla  cod"   IV - als
(2 Wm e,.")                                        xm   xx    xVt    xx   us    xx  isM  Xs          us      xx   V      iM
(114/lA/  RS)
TM's  a a   lw. Vil  eab.ee   to tral  Cadro IV Il
respective LOU
To have expanded MO/PI  ctivitl. to reach  ml-urba  a  rural aree" not yt seevd
savCF  JANAOMt
0
Coadat _eaaemmt metig  loe liXgX State               mm     UK    XK  xI   VI   IXs         Xs   us  Xu    us    xI    SXS
FP/AA/Pitriet FP C.ordinatore a   Supervisors,
health new. (0 per asilig a 4)
FH  and Stat Coordlators provide b s_rwisery 
vltit. to lA, assist LAM ldtify feelltles
soodiag refrildbmAt A sotbl Isi am. /FP 
outle In 110 facilities Phased owr a o 40, So, to
NHND l4Serice section work closely with IE Dlv       ms     xx  xm    xx   As    us         xx   m                                        4 a
Is davolopiso  ppriat. edctloal astoils                                                                                                       0
Procure Veicles  a eipmet as deati   Ined ta prject Xs
Superwlsory vielt.,  tlosml Workshops 
Seminar$ ad valeous op"rsalg cost..
Producto of various training _rasle (os-going)
Procursstb of a Per"Itabise and relurblehlas
of MHC Zocal otfle s    MD o fice".
Ooft.r;ng and Evelvations (co every yer
for 3 yeers)



- 101 -
Attachment to Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 4
SubproJect on Integration of Family Plannina into Maternal & Child Health:
Local Government Areas (LGAs) to Be Covered & Their Phasina
Zones                   States                   LGAs
I. Year One:
A                      Imo                     Mbano
Benue                   Idah
B                     Ogun                     Ifo
Oyo                     Ife Central
C                     Sokoto                   Kaura Namoda
Kwara                   Oyun
D                     Plateau                  Barkin-Ladi
Kano                    Jahun
II. Year Two:
A                     Akwa Ibom                Ikot-Ekpene
B                     Bendel                   Etsako
Lagos                   Ikorodu
c                     Abuja                    Garki
Niger                   Rafi
D                     Bauchi                   Akko
Kaduna                  Zaria
III. Year Three
A                     Anambra                  Oji River
Cross River             Odukpanl
Rivers                  Port Harcourt
B                     Ondo                     Idanre-Ifedore
C                     Katsina                  Kankia
o                     Borno                    Konduga
Gongola                 Gombi



- 102 -
Attachment to Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 4
DMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE TO EXPAND AND STRENGTHEN
THE PROVISION OF INTEGRATED FAMILY PLANNING TEROU
MATERNAL CHILD HEALTH SERVICES ITTEIN THE
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SYSTEM AT THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT LEVEL
DATE     |             ITEM              IRESPONSUILITY
Year 1   Would have trained 1 200       PHC Division
different cadres of health    NCHIFP
workers.
Q I      Procurement of equipment,
vehicles.
Q 2      Printed various training
manuals.
Year 2
2         Headquarters in the zonal      PHC  Division
offices established.           MCH/FP
Q  4      60 PHCs  outlet
refurbished.
Year  3   Evaluation conducted and        PHC Division
reports disseminated.          MCBIPP



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 10
NIGERIAs NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of the Appraisal of a Subproiect on
Promotion of Family Planning through Health Education
Health Education Branch, Primary Health Care Department
Federal Ministry of Health
A. Background and Rationale
Constraints, Problems and Issues
1.       The Health Education Branch (BEB) of the Federal Ministry of
Health (F1OH), along with its state-level counterparts, is the principal
facility through phich the health sector develops and produces messages and
materials to inform and educate the public. Consistent with the overall
emphasis on primary health care (PHC) in the national health strategy, the
HEB is charged with education on the following health issues and problemss
(a)   Prevailiag health problems and methods of prevention;
(b)   Promotion of food supply and proper nutrition;
(c)   Adequate supply of safe water and basic sanitationg
(d)   Maternal and child health care, including famlly planning;
Ce)   Immunization against major infectious diseases;
(f)   Prevention and control of locally endemic diseases;
(g)   Appropriate treatment of common diseases and injuries; and
(h)   Appropriate use of essential drugs and supplies.
2.       Although it is widely agreed in Nigeria that PHC is the most
important responsibility of the health sector, health education, a major
element of PHC, is only vaguely understood as a concept or in the
requirements for its effective delivery. HEB is largely underdeveloped,
understaffed, and underfunded; e.g., only two of four approved sections are
operative. Although the state health education units vary in staffing from
one to twelve, most have only one trained health educator.
3.       Equipment needed for training and public information activities is
for the most part outdated, worn out, or missing. Lack of transportation
prevents the staff from mounting field campaigns and inadequate funding
precludes the development of materials with which to support them.
4.       Visits by the subproject preparation consultant to four states
revealed that although on paper the health education units are viable, in



- 104 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 10
practice the staff is generally minimal, equipment is missing or
inoperative, and working space dilapidated and inhospitable.
5.       Likewise, in none of the four LGAs visited was there a solid
institutional structure for health education. In the LGAs used as PHC
models (or as pilot areas by UNICEF) there is more familiarity with the
issues of health delivery and greater financial support. In the UNICEF
covered areas, for example, village and district committees assist in
information, education and mobilization in support of health activities
such as immunizations, oral rehydration, and epidemic control.
6.       It is unlikely, given the present situation, in particular the
lack of staff and financial resources, that HEB and its counterpart units
at the state level can meet the challenges posed by the National Population
Policy.
Description of HEB and Related Health Education Bodies
7.       The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) is made up of eight
departments, one of which is the Primary Health Care Department. In turn,
the Health Education Branch, along with the branch responsible for
collaboration with NGOs, constitutes one of three divisions of the PHC
Department. The other two divisions in the department are responsible for
health services and manpower development and for family health and
essential drugs. The PBC Department has a key obligation within the
Federal Government to achieve a level of health that will enable all
Nigerians to be socially and economically productive. It is also expected
to ensure that all citizens are provided with comprehensive promotive,
curative, and rehabilitative health care. Notwithstanding this ambitious
mandate, health education is not in practice accorded the status of the
other major elements of PHC.
8.       Of significance to the subproject is the fact that of the four
sections that constitute HEB, the Community Health Section and the
Publications and Mass Communication Section are only nominally operative
while the School Health Section and the Research, Evaluation and Training
Section are dormant. In total there are 18 senior professional staff and
about 24 support staff. The Branch has no administrative officers or
accountants and no library or librarians.
9.       There is no zonal structure for health education even though
approval was granted some ten years ago to create four such units headed by
Assistant Chief Health Education Officers. Subsequently FMOH established
PHC coordinating offices in each of the four health zones, but none has a
health educator on the staff.
Relationship of HEB with States and Local Government Administration (LGAs)
10.      Without a viable field structure, including health education
officers for outreach, collaboration and coordination activities in states
and LGAs, the relationships between the three tiers of government is very



- 105 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 10
weak. Activities that have suffered because of this includes
(a) Assisting in information and data collection at the state levell
(b)   Promoting state and local government involvement in development,
pretesting, and distribution of health education materials;
(c)   Promoting, monitoring, and evaluating health education activities;
and
(d)   Promoting needs identification, planning and executing of in-
service training at state and local government levels.
HEBE's Involvement in the National Population Programme
21.      This subproject directly relates to two other subprojects in the
PMO0, namely, strengthening local government family planning services in
the context of maternal and child health/PHC, and establishing up to four
reproductive health centers at federal teaching hospitals on a zonal basis.
Together, these three efforts represent the Ministry's main contribution to
implementation of the national population policy during the first phase.
12.      The following activities to be carried out under the subproject
are in direct support of the National Population Programme as described in
sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and 5.6 of the policys
(a)   Dissemination of information on the health benefits of the
National Population Programme and the effective use of
contraceptives;
(b)   Support for the dissemination of information on reproductive
health, including information on sexually transmitted diseases
(e.g., AIDS);
(c)   Preparation of materials (posters, leaflets, handouts, cassettes,
films, etc.);
td)   Preparation of technical training and counseling materials;
(e)   Development of prototypes for adaptation by state, zonal, or
language areas; and
(f)   Identification of resources for strengthening health education
delivery, including training.
EBE's Current Population/Family Planning Activities and Their Funding
13.      The current involvement in population/family planning is minimal
due to lack of funding and essential infrastructure. The Federal staff has
worked with other departments within the Ministry, UNICEF, and other
agencies and organizations on activities related to certain priority health



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 10
interventions, such as immunizations, oral rehydration therapy, and public
information on drugs and AIDS. Since PHC includes family planning, health
education has at least acknowledged its relationship to populationlfamily
planning. HEALTHCOM, a USAID-funded initiative, and Population
Communication Services, another USAID grantee, provide some support to the
Federal HEB and to some state health education units.
14.      Visits to states indicate that there is growing interest in and
support for family planning. In rare cases posters and simple IEC
materials are in evidence.
Process of Subprolect Proposal Preparation
15.      The subproject proposal was prepared by a consultant who was a
former senior official in the Ministry of Education. He worked closely
with the Read of the Federal HEB and key members of her staff. In addition
to discussions with relevant officials in FMOH and Lagos University
Teaching Hospital, the consultant, along with HEB staff, visited four
selected state ministries of health, one from each health zone, one LGA in
each state, and the PHC Zonal Coordinators in lbadan and Bauchi.
Questionnaires were administered and interviews held with relevant staff.
B. Obiectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
Subprolect Obiectives
16.      A number of objectives have been identified by the  3EB for this
subproject as follows:
(a) To improve the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of the
community with regard to family planning, including development of
needed community support for family planning;
(b) To provide citizens with the knowledge to appreciate the benefit
of child spacing and smaller families for the health of mothers
and children;
(c) To assist citizens to know the basic family planning guidelines
of:
- all births to women 18-35 years of age,
- four childrep per woman,
- birth spacing of at least two years;
(d) To ensure that family planning acceptors receive adequate
information to make informed selection of methods and how to use
them;
(e) To ensure provision of contraceptive information and services to
80S of all new mothers in the areas to be initially served by the
subproject;



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 10
(f) To promote increased leadership commitment using traditional and
modern channels of communication;
(g)   To educate all citizens about AIDS and other sexually transmitted
diseases;
(h) To provide specific information on sterility and infertility; and
(i)   To ensure that cultural and religious beliefs, local technologies,
and taboos important to health are preserved and utilized.
17.      The major target groups/beneficiaries identified during the design
of the subproject are:
(a)   Clients needing and using family planning;
(b)   Multiple leadership groups whose understanding and consensus is
needed for the policy to gain wide acceptance and for the program
to succeed; and
gc)   The general public.
Relationship between Suburoiect and National Policy/Program Strategy
18.      The subproject is conceived as a major element of infrastructure
support for the strengthening of population/family planning activities at
Federal, state, and local levels necessary, practicable and appropriate for
achieving the goals of the National Population Policy. Its design
encompasses significant multi-sectoral institutional development along with
comprehensive IEC delivery with special reference to one LOA in each state
to be selected jointly with the Family Health Division (FED) of the PHC
Department, which is responsible for Subproject 1 on Integration of Family
Planning into Maternal and Child Health (MCH). In the implementation of
the subproject, special attention will be given to strengthening the
capacity of the public sector to play a central role through sustained
long-term development of institutional capacities in support of the
National Population Programme. With special reference to the current
three-year Plan of Implementation for the National Population Programme,
this subproject relates to the following activities:
(a) 5.1.04.a--The value of family planning and child spacing on the
stability and well-being of the family shall be promoted;
(b)   5.1.04.b--Family Planning Services shall be incorporated into
maternal and child health servicess
(c)   5.1.05. a & b--Government shall ensure the availability of family
planning services to all couples and individuals seeking such
services at affordable prices on a voluntary basis;



- 108 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 10
(d)   5.1.05.c--All couples and individuals shall get family planning
services at affordable prices on a voluntary basis;
(e) 5.1.07--National Family Planning Programs shall make available a
variety of methods of fertility regulation to ensure free and
conscious choice by all couples;
(f)   5.1.08--Family Planning clinics and commercial distribution
outlets shall be established in existing health facilities and
commnity-based delivery services in order to reach under-served
couples and individuals;
(g)   5.1.09--Special attention shall be paid to educating and
motivating the population at grassroots level on the health,
social, and demographic values of family planning;
(h)   5.l.10--Where ever possible family planning education shall be
incorporated In training programs for women and adult persons;
(i)   5.2.2--Special attention shall be given within the context of PHC
to encourage breastfeeding, the provision of adequate nutrition,
clean water, basic sanitation, immunisation, oral rehydration
therapy, birth-spacing, fertility regulation and family planning
services;
(j)   5.2.4--Measures be taken urgently to increase the level of
awareness on health and family planning attained by women as an
end In itself and because of its close link to child spacing and
survival. All available information shall be made easily
accessible and disseminated throughout the country;
(k)   5.4.6--Education for Women shall be promoted equally and special
Population Education and Information Programmes in the Areas of
Fertility, Regulation and High Risk Pregnancies and Health
Promotion shall be provided; and
(1) 5.3.2--Appropriate information and education programmes shall be
designed and implemented to promote awareness by men of their
responsibility for adequate caring and having appropriate family
sizes.
Activities To Be Carried Out under the Subprolect
19.      The activities of the subproject include the following:
(a)   Strenthening of the Federal Health Education Branch.  A major
comonent of the subproject is intended to develop HEB according
to its original design which, when implemented, would both raise
its status within the PHC Department and position it for major
service within the National Population Programme. Major elements
of strengthening includes (i) staffing, funding, and other



- 109 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 7 of 10
essential support for five sections: Community Health, School
Health, Administration, Publication/Mass Coununication, and
Research/Evaluation/Training; and (ii) printing, photographic, and
audio-visual supplies and equipment.
(b)   Establishment of health education capacity in the four PHC Zonal
Offices. The subproject will establish four zonal offices
originally approved by federal authorities and endorsed by the
states. These offices are intended to assist in state-level
data/information collection and dissemination; involve states in
development, pretesting, and distribution of materials; facilitate
monitoring; and assist with the execution of in-service training
at state and LGA levels. Support will includes (i) staffing--
health education officers (grades 12, 13 and 14), graphic
artist/illustrators, photographers and drivers; and (ii)
equipment--audio-visual, photographic, office equipment, and
vehicles.
(c)   Establishment of trainint centers in existing national
Institutions. In order to meet the anticipated need for health
educators under the NPP and the expanding national PHC program, a
training center will be established in a key northern university
and the existing Africa Regional Health Education Centre (ARHEC)
at the University of Ibadan will be strengthened.
(d)   Monitoring, evaluation, and research.  The subproject includes
support for a monitoring and evaluation network to be located in
the HEB but linked to DPA, NPC and other CAs. Support is Included
for baseline studies, lAP surveys and interpretation of results
for training and IEC strategy.
(e)   Training.  In addition to the establishment of health education
training capacity ("c' above), the subproject will provide support
for the following types of specific training activities:
(i) Pre-service training for new HEB and zonal center staff;
(ii) Study tours for HEB staff;
('ii) Workshops for HEB staff on IEC strategy development;
(iv) Workshops for state health education staff on use of new
materials;
(v) Train-the-trainer workshops for state and LGA health
educatiou staff on family planning IEC;
(vi) Workshops for tutors in schools of health technology,
nursing, and midwifery;
(vii) Workshops for state and national media personnelg



- 110 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 8 of 10
(viii) Orientation Workshops for other health staff, physicians,
teachers, and social workers; and
(ix) Workshops for selected primary and secondary school teachers
on instructional materials.
(f)   Production of various IRC materials and conduct of IEC activities.
While primarily intended to support institutional and human
resource development during this first three years, the subproject
will also support development and utilization of some IEC
materials. Among these will be materials on male responsibility
and on encouraging the raising of the age at marriage for women to
18, along with a health education newsletter. In addition, the
subproject will finance the use of traditional folk media in the
22 pilot LGAs.
(g)   Plannina of school health education.  The subproject will foster
joint planning of school health education activities with NEMMC,
UNICEF, and state health and education officials.
C. Subyroject Management and Coordination
Responsible for Management of the Subgroiect
20.      The strengthened Federal HEB is the focal point for management of
overall implementation. The head of the Branch will be provided with
additional high level staff both in technical health education and in
administrative and accounting support. This, plus adequate financial
resources to effectively implement the subproject, should qualify the unit
for status as a full fledged division with greater decision making
latitude. The establishment of four zonal offices will facilitate
management of the subproject as it relates to state and local government
levels. HEB envisions a national Implementation network to facilitate
coordination and monitoring of implementation activities. The DPA is
recognised as the key agency in this network.
Main Steps in Subproiect Implementation
21.      Given the underdevelopment of the HEB, the absence of zonal
facilities and the inadequate status of state health education units, the
first actions under the subproject must be directed at correcting these
problems. Thus, staffing and in-service and pre-service training are given
Initial priority in the attached work plan. Also essential are baseline
studies to establish guidelines for IEC activities.
22.      Since much needed strengthening of state facilities and LGA
resources are not included in the subproject, efforts should be made to
elicit proposals for such infrastructure development even before the
current subproject is completed. These proposals would be prepared for



- 111 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 9 of 10
submission to the Population Activ-..es Fund (PAP).
Monitoring and Evaluation
23.      HEB and the PHC zonal offices will establish mechanisms and
procedures for monitoring activities of the subproject by the following
actionss
(a)   Creation of a team for monitoring and coordination of the
participating sections and units;
(b)   Locating responsibility for monitoring in the Research,
Evaluation, sad Traiaing Section of REBE
(c)   Establishing channels of information flow within the Branch, the
state units, LGAs, and other collaborating agencies through the
DPA as the national coordinating body:
(d)   Regularly requesting data and it formation from states and LGAs in
respect to implementation activities;
(e)   Structured meetings with state and LGA officers to examine the
status of project implementation;
sf)   Analysis of documentationlinformation followed by interpretation
and feedback to states and LGAs; and
(g)   Use of mass media to inform target groups of progress toward
meeting the goals of the NPP.
Subproject Procurement
24.      Procurement will be the responsibility of the existing facilities
serving the several departments within the Ministry of Wealth. Exploration
of combining procurement requirements of other participating agencies in
such areas as audio-visual, printing, and photographic equipment and
supplies will be made.
Accounting and Disbursements
25.      Since the  EEB has no current capability in accounting and
administration, the requirements of the subproject will need to be handled
in the short run by the parent department, Primary Health Care, and by
FMOH's Department of Finance and Supplies. Vhen WEB is fully staffed
certain responsibilities will be shifted.
Coordination of Activities with Other CAs and DPA
26.      The national network for IEC implementation, monitoring and
evaluation described above constitutes the HEB's provision for
coordination. The ZEC Task Forces already established at the national



- 112 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 10 of 10
level and projected by DPA for the state level are the operational units
specifically responsible for all informationleducation related activities.
D. Follow-on Reauirements
27.      Clearly, the establishment of infrastructure and institutional
development are the priority requirements of the subproject. Staffing,
training and logistical demands will overshadow the development and
implementation of IEC campaigns and other activities in the short run.
Even with an ideal structure at Federal and zonal level, it would be
infeasible to mount effective local activities until at least a limated
degree of capability exists at state and particularly at LGA levels.
28.      Assuming effective development of an adequate three-tiered system,
the follow-on requirements of the subproject will be substantial. They
include major further contributions to materials development and
distribution, mass media use, and the full range of requirements involved
in effective Interpersonal and group methods of information and education.
Sources IDA staff with Health Education Branch, October 1989 and March
1990.



-113 -
Attachment to Anniex 3-5
Page 1 ot 5
0                           
SR$    Wg                   
U                            
=a  0    ;  S   #   "             "        "       "    "  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~
g  }   g         "               ""                       "       "  N
a                     l 1             1 ij I111               11     i   
*    #6         _     Z_   



ACTrVIIES                                                                        1 2                      8 a
-  Sbh dmelop.t of  eC materIals, tes, a       a      I         a     a       S
sad brasIMt as appriate for dlatribe-
ti_ s t statss Ijtstitets  and the
comittes
Assess metwrisie elr.sd  deveope sd desigas
- MC packag" frc mbiler          1 sa genes,
-tee_ emtmsoetl
- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
_ - henlm  sadg     SCmt    led  s.                                                                                               I
(t)  11iy pw1|"g vat~ I-sflm
Cl) Psati plssa walehrs sad
(ii) Sp.dt.l metod pepbiete for ta&o-bms
OetermIt,  _eed ec r.qsiromse_o fc fehe preojest
soppet esiniestlee  towup"N  for sempies                 .
~ I.
_ Survep of f_l   plasela gI oeeoted
*t zd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
- Hetth data coIllootle os hesth oftsetios
astiities
-bevelopast.ii eaofes's repessitbltity a x     x 
- Train por1o-of to teab c _p  ad        x     a 
tbe ma*S..



- 115 -
ActachasuC to Ames 3-S
Page 3 of 5
&~~~~~~~ N
N                         "    t
&                "    "~~~~~~
0  #               "    #                         #~~~N 
U  N                    u    u                         N 
#4                      "    #       
Ur &  X      #           sN      
U                            
tE~~~~~~  II                                                -- . -      ||l
I ~~ :12  .                            1    I



AlCTIVI                                                        Vs I                 ye 2                    11 a
qp    Q2    p          p       t    p          Ip    02    1
- Hold NC workshp for ot_os/L   x  #e-                                                    x      x      x        * 
"at cou8t*Sttf fo@ptim   W  of the
m  tEC mteeiele
- Cedt t   deopet (tff trainia g                 s         s               
and de _lop.e ectvltilce o*rlewtetal   of
off staff)
E. Development of F1E tonml offl.
- Cmmo the estabishmen t oftEI  al   x              t   x                 s       s       a         
office. withis the PKC co-ordimetlog
offies
- Acire "    up        for tho   sal offiew   s ,  a  a   a        a 
F.  Aceitaeme to State
- Provid  t.hicai/rnp     for  's          a     a      s         a       a       a       a       a       s
ealth 6dloain Unite for eff.tive
projet activities
4. Project Mealtorla SW  i10vatlei
-  wv.lop    tmas for asuiteriag NC thrust a     a      a
on  yarterip or holt  eriy besta, 
- Forao appropriate  atioal odarde                                                        a      a 
to health ed.ooties pratice adW
co-odinaeoal stabe,. health eduction
- Co_dic oid-lom ai  dof-subprojost                                a      a      a         a             x
ovastlo  Io
- boi.seaatboes of ivvluatlee rport



- 117 -
Attacbment to Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 5
DNPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ON STSRETNGENING
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY TO PROMOTE FAMILY
PLANNING THROUGH HEALTH EDUCATION UNIT.
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH
DATE                  ITTEM              IURESPONSIBILITY
Year 1
Quarters
2nd       Strengthened Health Education  Health Education
Branch at Federal level.       Division
Staff training and
Provision of equipment.
4th       Assessed IEC materials         Health Education
for public education.          Division.
on going monitoring
Year 2
Quarters
3rd       Production of FIP materials    Health Education
through appropriate            Division.
technology completed.
4th       Development of Zonal           Health Education
Health Education offices
completed.
Year 3
2nd       Final evaluation and           Health Education.
dissemination of findings.



- 118 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 11
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of the Appraisal of a Subproject in Support
of Four Tertiary Centres for Reproductive Health (TCRHs)
Department of Hospital Services and Training.t FMOH
A. Backaround
Constraints, Problems and Issues
1.        Nigeria has made great strides in the decades following
independence in 1960 in improving its health system. Its efforts have led
to the establishment of hundreds of health facilities, including 14
teaching hospitals, and the training of thousands of health workers.
Recently Nigeria's initiatives culminated in the adoption of two major
mutually reinforcing policies, namelys the National Policy on Population
for Development Unity and Self-Reliance (NPP) and the National Health
Policy (NIP).
2.        The NPP, which was adopted on 4 February 1988, has set ambitious
goals to be achieved by a multi-sectoral population program. One of the
objectives of the NPP is to achieve lower population growth through
reduction of birth rates by voluntary fertility regulation methods. The
goal of the NHP (October 1988) is to enable all Nigerians achieve a level
of health that will permit them to lead socially and economically
productive lives. Paced with shrinking resources, the Government has
recognized that progress towards the goal of 'Health for all Nigerians,
requires a streamlined, cooperative approach. The NHP stresses the need
for an integrated, pyramidal health system. According to the NHP,
'Federal, State, Local Government Authorities (LGAs) shall support, in a
coordinated manner, a three-tier system of health care. Essential features
of the system shall be its comprehensive nature, multi-sectoral inputs,
community involvement and collaboration with non-governmental providers of
health care... The national health care system is built on the basis of
the three-tier responsibilities of the Federal, State and Local
Governments.'
3.        With overall responsibility for the health sector, the Federal
Ministry of Health (FMOH) sets national health policies and program
guidelines. PMOB also monitors state and local government health programs
for compliance. In addition, FHOH trains medical doctors, sets standards
for all health workers, operates tertiary health facilities, controls
communicable diseases, and supplies drugs and vaccines.
4.        Efforts made by Nigeria in health and other sectors have had a
significant impact on well-being of Nigerians. Life expectancy at birth,
which was 39 years in 1960, has risen to around 51. The crude death rate
has dropped from about 27 per 1,000 persons in the sixties to 13-16 at
present. Despite undeniable successes, overall health conditions in
Nigeria remain at low levels compared with countries at similar levels of
economic development. For instarnce, in 1987, the infant mortality rate



- 119 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 11
(1MR) was higher in Nigeria (105 per 1000 live births) than in Ghana (90),
Kenya (72) or Liberia (87). Despite all the impressive and undeniable
efforts made by Nigeria to develop its health manpower and infrastructure,
no more than 352 of Nigerians have ready access to modern health care.
5.        High morbidity and mortality accompany child birth in Nigeria.
Reproduction related mortality accounts for about 20 to 502 of all deaths
among Nigerian women of reproductive age. There is a wide range of
reproductive problems, some of which require specialist care and
management. These problems includes (a) complications of pregnancy,
especially of teenage pregnancy, (b) complications from some traditional
practices, (c) complications arising from abortions, td) infertility. (e)
and complications from the use of contraceptives. Nigeria has one of the
highest levels of early child bearing in the world. Recent surveys shown
that 10 per cent of women of reproductive age had their first child by the
age of 14. This explains the high incidence of complications associated
with early child bearing such as cephalo-pelvic disproportions and vesico-
vaginal fistula.
6.        Traditional practices, such as female circumcision and the
absorption of oxytocic plants, further increase morbidity and risks during
pregnancy and delivery. Female circumcision is widespread among some
groups in Nigeria, with prevalence rates of 80 or higher reported in some
areas. Health risks include urinary tract infection, chronic pelvic
inflammation, retention cysts, difficulty in delivery and infertility.
7.        Septic abortion is another major problem especially among urban
adolescents. In present day Nigeria, traditional sexual abstinence and
intensive breastfeeding as means of fertility control are being abandoned
and not being replaced with effective contraceptive methods. Consequently,
more and more pregnancies end up in abortion. The annual number of
abortions in Nigeria is currently estimated to be over 300,000 (Ladipo).
Finally, infertility is becoming a problem for both men and women in
Nigeria, and pelvic inflammatory disease due to sexually transmitted
diseases probably accounts for more than half of all infertility.
8.        The management and care of health problems, including
reproductive problems, require a pyramidal system of health services. The
idea is to provide most services at the primary health care level. There
is a need for selective referral of difficult cases from primary health
care facilities to higher level facilities which are fewer in number, but
provide more sophisticated services. As a result, they are also more
expensive to operate.
9.        At the present time, however, the referral system is not well
established in Nigeria, particularly for family planning (FP) programs.
Many secondary and tertiary care facilities are unable to provide quality
clinical back-up services for the expanding FP programs. District/general
hospitals, for instance, are manned by general purpose medical officers who
lack technical and managerial skills required for performing contraceptive
procedures such as surgical contraception and treating reproductive
complications. In turn, teaching hospitals (THs) have the responsibility
of handling cases referred to them from secondary level health facilities.



- 120 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 11
In addition to providing tertiary care, THe are expected to conduct
research, assist PFOH in setting national service standards and programs
guidelines, and train doctors and other health professionals in advanced
medical procedures. The level and quality of services, training and
retraining being provided differs from one teaching hospital to the other,
however, because of the uneven distribution of human, financial and
material resources.                               0
10.       To achieve the objectives stated in the NPP and NHP and to
address the critical reproductive health problems in the country, the
Nigerian Government has decided to handle health problems in the country
on a zonal basis. The Government has opted for initial establishment of
one Tertiary Reproductive Health Centre (TRHC) in each of the four health
zones of the Federation. Out of the 14 THs, four have therefore been
identified for the implementation of the proposed sub-project, namely: the
University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH), the University of Maiduguri
Teaching Hospital (UMTH), the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital,
Zaria (ABUTH), and the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu
(UNTH).  In addition to providing a link between primary and tertiary
services, secondary health services in one general hospital in each state
of the Federation and Federal Capital Territory will be strengthened. The
activities of these 22 general hospitals and four teaching hospitals will
be overseen and coordinated, respectively, by the Departments of Hospital
Services and Training (DHTS) and Population Activities (DPA) in FMOH.
Description of FMOH and the Four THs
11.       The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)  s divided into eight
departments.  Two of these, DHST and DPA, are pivotal for this subproject.
DHST is responsible for overseeing the activities of all hospitals in the
Federation, including general and teaching hospitals.  DPA is responsible
for coordination of the various inter-related activities designed to ensure
the successful implementation of the NPP.
12.       University College Hospital, Ibadan (UCH).  UCH was established
in 1948 at Adeoyo Hospital, Ibadan. It moved to its present site in 1957.
The UCH Obstetrics and Gynaecology (Ob/Gyn) Department can be described as
the best and the most advanced in Nigeria. Most practicing gynecologists
in the country passed through this department, either as undergraduate or
postgraduate students. Currently, the department has three units with
specialized clinics, namely: a fertility research unit, comprising of
contraceptive and infertility clinics; a gynecological oncology unit; and a
perinatal medicine/high risk pregnancy unit. Each of these units has at
least three Ob/Gyn specialists on its staff. UCH is well known for its
training programs, research, and services to the community.
13.       UCH has always had a dynamic undergraduate training program, and
its postgraduate training has produced virtually all the doctors with the
X.R.C.O.G. Diploma in Nigeria. In 1979, the Ob/Gyn Department got involved
in training graduates for the Nigerian Postgraduate Medical College and the
West African College of Surgeons Specialist Diploma. Twenty-nine have been
trained under these schemes and are now serving as specialists both within
and outside Nigeria. UCH has pioneered research in reproductive health



- 121 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 11
including cancer management. UCH operates regular Ob/Gyn clinics in the
following areass antenatal, screening, postnatal, gynecological
consultation, and family planning. There is also a sexually transmitted
diseases clinic, which is run jointly by several departments.
14.       Over the years, UCH has been the referral centre for Ob/Gyn
patients needing tertiary care from elsewhere in Nigeria and even from
other West African countries. The department has been able to cope with
this influx of patients partly because it has 130 inpatient beds made up of
84 obstetric beds and 46 gynecological beds. Similarly, UCH has an
extensive complex to support the above-mentioned Ob/Gyn clinics, which
consists of the following facilitiess (a) 12 consulting rooms with patient
waiting bays, (b) patient preparatory rooms for blood pressure measurement,
weighing and urinalysis, (c) family planning counselling rooms, (d) four
IUD insertion rooms, (d) a minor gynecological procedure room, (e) an
operating theatre complex, (f) a radio-immunoassay laboratory, (g) a
seminology room, (h) a general biochemistry/hematology laboratory, (i) a
cervical cytology room, (j) two seminar rooms, (k) an administrative
office, and (1) an unutilized ultrasound room.
15.       University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu.  UNTH was
founded in the early sixties and it was the second university teaching
hospital in Nigeria. Although the University has been in existence for
almost thirty years, three major factors have militated against its Ob/Gyn
Department making significant impact on reproductive health problems in its
area. The first factor was the Nigerian Civil War, which interrupted its
development. The second factor is that the hospital is functioning from
buildings of what had been a general hospital. The third factor has been
the Department's difficulty in recruiting senior consultant staff. This
last-mentioned obstacle has now been overcome and currently the Department
has about eleven very senior consultants. The Department has one
specialized clinic, a family planning clinic. Research output in the
University has been mainly clinical due to a large patient attendance.
This has had a positive impact on the clinical training program for both
undergraduate and postgraduate students. The main research areas at UNTl's
Ob/Gyn Department have been selected aspects of maternity services and
infertility.
16.       Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria.  ABUTH
was established almost thirty years ago from what had been the Zaria
General Hospital. The Ob/Gyn Department has made tremendous progress and
has engaged in useful research on maternity, services especially in the
areas of maternal care monitoring, eclampsia, teenage pregnancy and
traditional aspects of obstetrics and gynaecology.
17.       University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH).  UMTH is the
newest of the four hospitals involved in this subproject. While it is
housed in new buildings and structures, UMTH is extremely short-staffed.
There are two rudimentary family planning clinics and a high risk pregnancy
clinic. There are no laboratories in the unit and UMTHl's experience in
research, training, and teaching is very limited.



- 122 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 5 of 11
The THs' Relationship with States and LOAs
18.       While there is no administrative relationship between Federal
Teaching Hospitals and the states and LGAs in which they are located, the
four THs under this subproject all act as reference centres for difficult
obstetric and gynecological cases in their immediate environments, and, as
far as fertility regulation is concerned, they have various relations vith
the state health authorities and local government primary health care
centers with the exception of UMTU. It is pertinent to mention that UCR
has gone a step further in their Fertility Regulation Program by involving
voluntary village health workers, market women and factory workers. With
regard to the flow of basic statistics on family planning, the 1989 PP
coordinators workshop held in Kaduna requested all general and teaching
hospitals to send their monthly PP statistics to State PP Coordinators (for
onward transmittal to Zonal PHC Coordinators and thence to the Family
Health Division at FMOH headquarters).
The Current Involvement of THs in PP
19.       Each of the four selected THs is currently involved in the
provision of PP services. PP activities started at UCH in 1965. Between
1970 and 1988, there were 38,017 contraceptive acceptors excluding condom
users. The methods chosen are as follows: IUD (712), oral contraceptives
(OC) (212), injectables (3.5t), sterilization (3.42), Norplant (0.12), and
others (0.62). For 1986, female sterilization statistics were as follows:
18 interval mini-laparotomy, 59 post-partum mini-laparotomy, and 114
laparoscopic sterilizations. Vasectomy is also available although there
are very few acceptors. In the ABUTH Fertility Regulation Unit, 1,233
women accepted various forms of PP (excluding condoms) in 1988. Out of
these, 173 had voluntary surgical contraception either through mini-
laparotomy or laparoscopic sterilization. Oral contraceptives, implants
and injectables are commonly chosen by women visiting the unit. UNTH is
also active in VP. Between 1986 and 1988, there were 3,126 contraceptive
acceptors (excluding condom users). The two most comonly chosen PP
methods are OCs and IUDs. There were only twelve female surgical
sterilizations. The Fertility Unit at UMTH recruited 1,648 PP acceptors in
1988 (excluding condom users), Out of these, 13 had voluntary surgical
contraception, all through mini-laparotomy.
20.       Various training activities have been implemented in the four
THe included in this subproject. UCH, which is the most active in this
regard, provides training through various PP courses for health providers
from many parts of Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa. Six different courses
related to FP are available at UCH. Like UCH, UNTI and ABUTH are
recognised centres for training post-graduate students in Ob/Gyn for either
the West African College of Surgeons Diploma or the Nigerian Post-Medical
College Diploma. They have well-established training centers for fertility
regulation for doctors, nurses and other paramedical personnel. As far as
research is concerned, UCH has pioneered several types of research in
reproductive health, including operational research In FP and cancer



- 123 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 6 of 11
management. In 1988 alone, 18 research studies on fertility were carried
out at UCH.
Linkages between the THs and National and International Agencies
21.       The UCH Fertility Unit has had extensive experience in working
with various international agencies. WHO designated the hospital as the
first collaborating centre for clinical research in human reproduction in
Africa. In 1965, the Population Council (New York) and the Pathfinder Fund
(Boston) assisted UCH in introducing the first university-based family
planning service delivery in Nigeria. Since then, many other agencies have
assisted in financing projects carried out by the UCH Fertility Unit.
Currently, UCH has active collaboration with the Center for Population and
Family Health at Columbia University in promotion of community-based health
and family planning.
Process of Subproject Preparation
22.       The eagerness to implement NPP and NHP effectively and
efficiently has led FMOH to devote tremendous efforts for finding
appropriate solutions to reproductive health problems. In 1988, PMOH
approved a study by Nigerian consultants with a grant from UNFPA. In 1989,
the African Health Consultancy Services (AHCS), a Nigerian consultancy
firm, was commissioned to look into four selected THs and recommend what
they need in order to tackle reproductive health problems. AHCS
consultants visited all four THs. Core staff of AHCS engaged in personal
interviews and participated various review meetings leading to the final
draft. Numerous individuals and groups, including staff of FMOH and the
World Bank, were contacted during the period of the preparation of the
proposal. During Appraisal, in mid-1989, a three-year vork plan was agreed
between PMOH and the Bank based on the final report presented by ARCS.
B. ObJectives and Main Strategies of the Subgroiect
Subproject Objectives and Scope
23.       Subproiect obiectives.  The goal or overall objective of the
subproject is to support the NPP by ensuring that a wide range of PP
methods and services, including surgical contraception, are easily
accessible to couples and individuals. To contribute to this, the
subproject will: (a) strengthen the capacity of PFOH's DHST so as to enable
the department to supervise, support and stimulate the establishment of
Secondary and Tertiary Reproductive Health Centres, and (b) strengthen and
expand the capacity of four THs for training, research, and tertiary care
in the domain of reproductive health as a means of backstopping FP and
related services at the primary and secondary level.
24.       Subproject scope.  The subproject will be implemented in four
selected TBs, namely, UCH, Ibadan; UMTH, Mlaiduguri; UNTH, EnuguS and ABUT!,
Zaria. These THs were identified on the basis of four criteria:
geographical spread (one in each health zone), their interest in
participating in the program, their current involvement in FP programs, and



- 124 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 7 of 11
their willingness to establish relationships with other hospitals in the
sones, including other teaching hospitals.
Relation between This Subprolect and NPP
25.       The goals of the NPP are to: (a) improve the standards of living
and the quality of life of the people of Nigeria. (b) promote their health
and welfare, especially through preventing premature death and illness
among high risk groups of mothers and children, (c) achieve lower
population growth, through reduction of birth rates by voluntary fertility
regulation methods that are compatible with the attainment of economic and
social goals of the nation, and (d) achieve a more even distribution of
population between urban and rural areas. The establishment of four TRHCs
will assist Nigeria's progress towards the above mentioned goals. The
proposed sub-project will help reduce some of the constraints mentioned in
paras 5-7. This project seeks to address the major issue in the National
Population Policy, namely the need for fertility reduction. In addition, a
review of the Work Plan of Population Programs indicates that this
subproject has taken into account the detailed activities outlined under
strategy 5.1, Family Planning and Fertility Regulation. Specifically, the
following activities are of particular relevance to this subprojects
(a) 5.1.04 (b) (Nos. 2,4 l-viii) and 5.1.05 (b) (No. 9) -- Government
shall ensure the availability of family planning services to all
couples and individuals seeking such services at affordable prices on
a voluntary basis;
(b) 5.1.06 (a&b) (Nos. 3,4,5,6) -- Family planning services shall
include services to sterile and sub-fertile couples as well as
individuals who want to have children to achieve self-fulfillment;
strengthen the health centers by providing equipment and supplies,
drugs to enable them to investigate, diagnose, and treat as
appropriate.
26.       Through the implementation of the subproject, more secondary and
tertiary health care centers will be manned by doctors and other health
workers who have technical and managerial skills in reproductive health
required to handle cases referred to them from lower level health
facilities. A wider range of FP methods and services (including surgical
contraception) will be made easily accessible to a larger number of couples
and individuals. Improved prevention and management of complications
arising from the use of PP will alleviate individuals' fears with regard to
fertility control methods and contribute to increasing the contraceptive
prevalence rate (CPR). Operational research activities that will be
undertaken under the subproject will assist Nigeria to improve FP service
standards and guidelines and to adopt strategies that are more acceptable
and affordable to Nigerians. The project will also have an impact on the
whole of Nigeria's health system by strengthening the links between the
three levels of the system.



- 125 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 8 of 11
Subproject Activities
27.       Strengthening-institutional cspacity at the Federal level.  DHST
is the department charged in the FMOH with the responsibility of overseeing
the activities of all public sector hospitals in the Federation. The
subproject will finance a photocopier, a computer, a vehicle, per diem and
travel allowances, and workshops, including a subproject launch workshop.
Provision will also be made for incremental operating costs incurred by
DHST in the implementation of the subproject. The project will finance
feasibility studies on establishment or expansion of secondary and tertiary
reproductive health centers in other hospitals. Studies will be financed
and an evaluation conducted on strengths and weaknesses of other hospitals
for providing back-up services required by the expanding FP program.
28.       Strentthening and expanding the four TH Fertility Units.  To
enable UCH, UMH, UNTH and ABUTH to perform the agreed training, research
and service activities, the subproject will provide the assistance detailed
below. The number of incremental staff given below are still provisional,
but will be firmed up in discussions with DHST prior to Effectiveness.
29.       At UCH, Ibadan, the project will support the expansion of a
Reproductive Health Centre comprising the following units: Family Planning,
Infertility, and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD). Specifically, the
subproject will build a new lecture theatre to accommodate at least sixty
students. Expansion of the physical facilities will include provision for
two cubicles for IUD insertion, a computer room, and a large store. The
subproject will also provide the center with teaching materials, office and
medical equipment, and a vehicle. As far as human resource development is
concerned, three more Ob/Gyn specialists will be recruited to cope with
increased demand for training and research. The subproject will also
support overseas fellowships in infertility management and advance
contraceptive technology for eight senior staff. The nursing staff will be
strengthened by shifting the present part-time nurses in the clinic to
full-time, bringing the total number of nurses to 35. The project will
also provide for the recruitment of two social workers, two computer
operators, one computer statistician, one computer analyst and one
librarian.
30.       At UNTH, Enugu, while waiting for the completion of the new
teaching hospital, the subproject will help create a center temporarily
limited to family planning. The two buildings earmarked in Enugu for PP
purposes will be rehabilitated to house their center temporarily. The
provisional center will provide space fort a patients' waiting area to
accommodate SO clients; four PP counseling rooms; four rooms for
consultation and IUD insertion; a minor surgical procedure room for tubal
ligation and vasectomy; a room for semiology and cervical cytology; a room
for general biochemistry and for the hematology laboratory; an ultra-sound
room; an administrative office; a store; a computer room; and a lecture
theatre to accommodate 25 students. The subproject will provide the center
with appropriate equipment. The subproject will also help address the need
for adequate staffing levels at the center, especially the incremental
staff required by the Fertility Unit.



- 126 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 9 of 11
31.       At ABU, Zaria, while waiting for the completion of the new
teaching hospital, which is under construction at Srika, the subproject
would strengthen the fertility regulation clinic currently operating in
2aria. To address the shortage of space, the subproject will provide
mobile, prefabricated space for consultations and IUD insertions,
seminology, cervical cytology, ultrasound, as well as a store and computer
room. The subproject will also provide vehicles, equipment, fellowships,
and support for operating costs for three years and will finance
incremental staff required by the unit.
32.       At the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, the project
will help create a center comprising of three units, namely, Family
Planning, Infertility, and STD. To that end, the physical facilities of
the hospital will be extended to provide space for the followings a waiting
room to accommodate 50 people; 12 consulting rooms; four counselling rooms;
four cubicles for IUD insertion; two rooms for minor gynecological
procedures; a standard operating theatre complex; a room to accommodate
radio-immuno-assay, seminology, cervical cytology, biochemistry and
hematology laboratories; a lecture room (to accomnodate 50 students), two
seminar rooms; two administrative offices; two stores; a computer room; and
a library. The project will provide the center with appropriate equipment.
To improve training, research and service delivery in fertility, staff will
be strengthened both in quantitative and qualitative terms. The subproject
will increase the staff to three Ob/Gyn specialists, nine residents (senior
and junior), 27 nursing staff, and six administrative staff including one
computer analyst. Special financial efforts would be made to attract
professional staff to take up and keep jobs at this center. The project
will finance the recruitment of two retired staff within and outside
Nigeria to come and set up the center and staff exchange between Maiduguri
and other universities (both within and outside Nigeria) will be arranged.
C. Subprolect Management and Coordination
Overall Responsibility
33.       While most activities undertaken under the subproject will occur
in the TEs, the responsibility for overall coordination will rest with
FMH, as the Federal agency charged with overall responsibility for the
health sector. Therefore, the ultimate person responsible for the
subproject is the Federal Minister of Health. DHST would have direct
responsibility for ensuring the implementation of the subproject activities
by each of the four selected THs.
Responsibilities of DHST
34.       In addition to ensuring overall coordination of the subproject
on behalf of the Federal Minister of Health, DHST--and more specifically
one of the two Deputy Directors of DUST--will serve as the focal point for
PMOH's efforts to stimulate and facilitate the establishment of Secondary
and Tertiary Reproductive Health Centres in general and teaching hospitals.
It will secure technical and financial assistance to hospitals from
national and international agencies. To that end, DUST will arrange



- 127 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 10 of 11
meetings and seminars, commission feasibility studies, and stimulate
exchange of information among hospitals. DHST will establish detailed
guidelines for establishing and monitoring Reproductive Health Centres.
With assistance from FMOH staff or consultants, DHST will confirm
compliance with legal requirements, monitor procurement, review progress
and financial returns submitted by the THs. Specific outputs from DUST
with regard to the subproject have been agreed.
Responsibilities of the Four THs
35.       While subproject activities will be undertaken in the
Departments of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, responsibility for project
implementation in each TH will rest with the Chief Medical Director (CMD)
of the TH. Hence the official ultimately responsible to the FMOH is the
CMD. An OblGyn specialist will be identified by the CMD and appointed as
Director of the Fertility Unit in each TH where such a position does not
already exist. The director of the unit will be given the responsibility
for day-to-day implementation of activities at the Reproductive Health
Centre. Expected outputs from the implementation of the subproject by each
of the THs have been drawn up and agreed.
Current and Incremental Staff Requirements for Sybproject Implementation
36.       The current and incremental staff requirements for subproject
implementation have been drawn up. No additional staff will be required at
DHST. In order for the four proposed Tertiary Reproductive Health Centers
to adequately fulfill their threefold functions--as research, specialist
back-up service, and training centres--there is a need to employ more
staff. UCH will increase the number of specialists on its staff at the
Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology from 12 to 15. In the other
selected TIs, additional posts for specialists will be created as followss
four at Enugu, five at Zaria, and six at Maiduguri. It will also be
necessary to recruit other categories of professionals such as residents,
nurses, social workers, computer operators, and statisticians.
Main Steps in Subproject Implementation
37.       The subproject will be implemented over a period of three years.
Because of uneven strengths of the four THs, there will be a differential
pace in implementation by the individual hospitals. An overall three-year
implementation plan is attached.
Subproiect Monitoring and Reporting
38.       Subproiect monitoring.  To monitor the performance of the
subproject, actual inputs will be compared to planned inputs and actual
outputs to planned outputs in each major category of activities. A list of
indicators will be established jointly by DHST and participating hospitals
and agreed prior to Effectiveness.



- 128 -
ANNUK 3-6
Page 11 of 11
39.       Reporting Arrangements.  As recomuended In the Fifth PP
Coordinators Workshop, each TH will send its monthly PP report to the PP
coordinator for the state in which it Is located. In addition, within
three months of the end of the fiscal year each of the four centers will
submit an annual progress and financial report to DUST for review,
consolidation, and onward transmittal to DPA with a copy to the Bank.
D. Next Steps
40.       This subproject is expected to improve the capacity of TBH  to
contribute to the expansion of family health services, including VP,
through Nigeria. The subproject will also allow PFMO to test and evaluate
the feasability of similar initiatives in other THs. The promotion and
extension of PP activities throughout the Federation will increase the need
for many more highly specialized reproductive health centers. After the
first three years, some of the first four THs may be requested to further
increase their capacity to provide highly specialized care and training.
Sourcet Department of Hospital Services and Training and IDA staff, March
1990.



- 129 -
Attachment to Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 5
Ö---------
----- --------
-I  --- :1---   -       - C   - --
hi  Ii         ;I------------
- I----------- ---
-       ~---  ---   - -- --
I__I_____                   __
_____   _____     _____
________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 130 -
Attachment to Annex 3-6
Page 2 of S
T-- ---- ---- -------------------Ö--------Ö-----
I1 aT U~~~~~~~~~~s~~~~~~~"~"~
------ - ------Ö----- ------------------ ---
-----------------------------------
;I -1                 
I- ------------------------ ------------------------
i <              a         s      z   a    X~~~~~~a    a
|~~~~~~~~~~ a:
c-- -- - -       --- --aea-- - -- -           --- --- --- - a
as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8 4,    i!j]  !45{    wtß!lllgl 1i  El3'1   01  3i'   '



- 131 -
Attachment to Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 5
.
a        --      - -Ö-a-a-  - ----- - - - -
I :1  ._ _ __ _  __  _  __  _  __  _  __  _  __  _
-  --   --  ---  --- ---  a      - - a- ---- --
-  --Öa----              a a - - a -- - -- - --- --
*            :       ;                 s    e~* 
- -i a a Ö   ---- a a a a -  a      - a a a a a    -aa   a a a-
-I  ---  Öa---            a      - - - - -aa--aaaa-aa 
Is ',1               s                     1
ÖÖ|a a| a -   
o |   j~~~~~~~ I                             I I    ________
" 3       I  4      aaa  -                      a     a    a  -  a
g!   | E    *          _        _    _    _ _I    _    _ I 
alEi .1   1t                 9 a           
f1st    taji   1ll111, ji!



- 132 -
Attachment to Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 3
I--T-"---|----
I     l1 
T----------
3-T--Y---|----
1!:  *1 
1   :1 1
-T------ ----
I   :I.---    -----
----------
1   :1   U----
----1------
----     ----



- 133 -
Attachment to Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 5
LufPLDINATON SCMUL FOR SECOARY
REflOD=TCV  REALT! CARE  ESEAlCE CUTZZ
ZN FOUR. flEMAL UN?VERSZTY TZA.CWMZ  ROSPZTALS
IN NZGfl A
DATE     I             Z?D(             IRES?OVNSZBIZLZ
Year I
Q  3     Strengthened capability of
4     Strengthened research  nd
training centers at the
4 Teaching  ospitals.           D1 ST
Year I
1    Trained Medical and Wursin
Personnel, in KCEIF1/STDIAAS
Q  4    Upgraded Hospital facilities.   D U S T
Year 3
1    Trained doetors. nurses
and technicians.



- 134 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page I of 10
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of the Appraisal of a Subproject on
Public Enlightenment on Population
External Publicity and Public Enlightenment Department,
Federal Ministry of Information (FMOI)
A. Background and Rationale
Constraints, Problems, and Issues
1.       With 250 ethnic groups, some 60 different languages (none of which
can be understood by everyone), a tradition of competition between ethnic,
religious, and regional populations, and one of the world's higher growth
rates exacerbated by an unremitting desire for more children, Nigeria
represents an unusual challenge in terms of effecting behavioral change in
regard to population issues.
2.       Present fertility levels and family size preference are the
consequence of historical, cultural, religious, and other socio-economic
factors and practices. While traditional versions of child spacing and
family planning exist and need, where appropriate, to be reinforced, in
other ways introduction of modern family planning practices involves
changes in norms and practices. As such, it is a process that need to be
undertaken sensitively. Essential changes in knowledge, attitudes, and
behavior are outcomes of effective information, education, and
communication activities, coordinated where appropriate with necessary
services. They involving the design, delivery, and evaluation of messages
through well-managed and credible structures and institutions. A high
level of cooperation and coordination among message sources is important.
Description of FMOIs Its Mandate, Structure, Staffing and Field Operations
3.       The Federal Ministry of Information (FMOI) is responsible for
keeping Nigerians informed on current events both domestic and
international, government policies and activities, and socio-economic
issues affecting the general welfare. FMOI also seeks to stimulate public
participation in development through various development communication and
public information programs.
4.       PMOI performs its functions through eight departments as well as
through parastatals that it supervises, such as the Nigerian Television
Authority (NTA), the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), and the
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). FMOI also has priority access to the two
government owned or controlled newspapers--the "New Nigerian" and "The
Daily Times.'
S.       Activities under this subproject will be implemented by the
Department of Public Enlightenment and State Liaison, which plays a central



- 135 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 10
role in FMOI's development communication efforts. With support from the
subproject, the department intends to establish a Population Information
and Communication Branch headed by an assistant director. The department
maintains resident information officers in other ministries at the federal
level and Federal Information Officers in 64 Information Centers and
Subcenters dispersed across the 21 states and the Federal Capital
Territory. Responsibilities of these centers and subcenters includes
(a)   Conduct of field publicity campaigns;
(b)   Distribution of publicity on federal government activities;
(c) Use of audio-visual materials to inform and educate the public on
government policies and activities; and
(d)   Provision of feedback to appropriate authorities for evaluation
and necessary action.
Typical equipment available to field staff are public address vans, cine
vans, cine boats (in riverine areas), utility cars, projectors, and
recorder/players, although these resources are often inoperative.
6.       Cooperation between the staff of these Federal Information Centers
and Subcenters and their counterparts in state information divisions,
although recognized as important, is not routine. Staff of the Federal
Centers and Subcenters are also expected to provide information support to
other federal ministries in their state level activities but often lack the
resources to be effective. State information divisions, which are
typically organized into domestic information, graphic arts, and film
units, carry out information support activities for state development
programs. Some states have field offices at the zonal level and a few even
have such offices at the LGA level.
7.       A third system of information dissemination inaugurated in 1987
under the President's Office is the Directorate of Social Mobilization
(MAMSER), which is also known as Mass Mobilization for Self-Reliance,
Social Justice and Economic Recovery. Its objective is the mobilization of
the people for all kinds of socio-economic and political activity. MAMSER
maintains staff at all three levels of government and operates
independently of both federal and state information systems.
Rationale for PMOI Involvement in the National Population Programme
8.       The national population policy gives priority attention to
population information/education/communication (IEC), devoting a full
section to the strategies needed for effective implementation.  Emphasis is
given to dissemination of demographic information to policy makers, project
officers, researchers and the public; establishment of population
information networks and data banks; training of information specialists;
dissemination of population related information, utilizing all available
channels; provision of sex and fertility information and education; and



- 136 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 10
establishment of coordinating committees to ensure the consistency of
messages through all channels.
9.       The Honorable Minister of Health, in his foreword to the policy,
stressed IEC stating, "Among the notable features of the Nigerian approach
is respect for the right of each couple to determine voluntarily the number
and spacing of their children. Such an approach requires a vigorous,
broadly-based national programme of information, education, and
communication, focussed on specific target groups, such as men or children
or youth."
10.      This subproject commits FMOI to supporting the foregoing
objectives and strategies through creation of an institutional framework to
promote awareness of population issues on a massive national scale, so as
to bring about a favorable climate for increasing the acceptability of
family planning, popularizing smaller family norms, and helping generate
decreases in fertility. The subproject will strengthen the capability of
the FMOI to assume leadership and coordination of national IEC efforts and
enhance its linkages with relevant state and local government structures as
well as training institutions and the mass media.
11.      The strategy for Vr; interventions at state and local level
involves use of federal ant. state media, public advertising and publicity
targeted to selected leadership groups and the general public. The
subproject proposal recognizes the key collaborative roles of the education
and health sectors as well as the central coordination responsibility of
the Department of Population Activities (DPA) in the Federal Ministry of
Health (FMOH).
Preparation of the Subproject
12.      This subproject is one of seven key components selected by the
government for priority funding by the World Bank. The preparation of five
of these proposals was carried out through a technical assistance grant
from UNFPA. The proposal entitled "Strengthening the Federal Ministry of
Information in Building Consensus and Awareness for the Population
Programme' was prepared by the Director of Development and Management
Consultants, Lagos, who is widely known both within Nigeria and
internationally as an expert in development communication and was, before
establishing his own consultancy group, the Director of the Institute of
Mass Communication at the University. of Lagos.
13.      A review committee was established by FMOI to evaluate the
proposal in terms of its consistency with overall ministry goals,
procedures, and policies. Members of the committee were the Deputy
Director, Department of External Publicity and Public Enlightenment,
chairman; the Chief Public Information Officer who had overseen the
preparation work, secretary; the Deputy Director, Films Services
Department; and the Deputy Director, Public Enlightenment.



- 137 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 10
B. Obiectives and Main strateties of the Subproiect
Subproiect Obiectives
14.      The long range goal of the subproject is "to help in strengthening
the Federal Ministry of Information --to enable it to deliver a public
awareness programme and knowledge gain materials on family planning and
population issues at urban and rural levels to selected target audiences as
well as the general public.*
15.      Intermediate goals are stated for four major areas of activitys
training, research and production of materials, documentation, and
community based activities.
(a)   Training objectivess
(i) To develop a healthy and positive attitude toward the
national population policy and family planning among policy
makers, program implementors, and administrators and media
practitioners; and
(ii) To raise the level of awareness of opinion leaders both in
government and in the private sector on the National
Population Policy and family planning issues.
(b)   Objectives related to research and development of media and
instructional materials:
(i) To provide instructional materials in population IEC to the
training activities of collaborating universities and other
training institutions;
(ii) To provide opportunity for the design and development of
campaign messages for population communication in the
Nigerian cultural milieu.
(iii) To conduct KAP studies at the beginning of the effort and at
different points of time through the life span of the
proposed subproject, as a baseline for monitoring and
development; and
(iv) To develop, pretest, and disseminate IEC materials to target
audiences.
(c)   Documentation objectives:
(i) To create a resource base for researchers interested in
population and family planning, as well as related fields,
through collection of print and audio-visual materials,
artifacts, etc.;



- 138 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 10
(ii) To provide documentation support to the participating
training institutions, as well as information support for
the development of relevant IEC materials; and
(iii) To disseminate on a regular basis current data on population
and family planning (including demographic statistics and
population communication materials) to scholars, policy
makers, program administrators and media practitioners.
(d)   Objectives related to community-based activitiess
(i) To provide a field-base for testing population communication
messages and campaign design strategies for both rural and
urban audiences;
(ii) To facilitate an integrated and coordinated community
program that would ensure appropriate linkages between
service delivery and IEC; and
(iii) To develop appropriate radio and television programs with
emphasis on the National Population Policy, family health,
family welfare and family planning issues.
Relationshi2 of Subproiect to the National Population Policy and Prosram
16.      This subproject recognizes that the National Population Programme
is a response by government to serious problems, actual and potential,
related to the imbalance between national resources and population growth
and to the health and welfare of mothers and their children. These
problems are expected to be aggravated unless the current population growth
rate of 3.2Z is drastically reduced. Such reduction must be a consequence
of voluntary decisions by couples to limit the number and frequency of
childbirth through use of contraceptive methods. Specifically, the
activities under this subproject are congruent with the following
activities spelled out in the current three-year Plan of Implementation for
the National Population Programme:
(a)   5.6 (Noo. 3,4,5,6,7,8 & 9)--A large proportion of the Nation's
Population especially in rural areas has limited access of
information and a low level of literacy. Hence, an Active
Programme of Population Education and Information Dissemination
needs to be vigorously pursued to enlighten the people on rapid
population growth and its implications; and
(b)   5.6.1 (b) No. 3--Appropriate Mechanisms shall be developed for
disseminating available demographic information to Policy Makers,
Project Officers, Researchers, and the General public. Such
information shall be summarized and presented in forms that are
appropriate and easily understood by all sections of the
population.



- 139 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 10
17.      It is recognized by FMO1  that to achieve this kind of attitude
change on a sustained basis in the majority of the population, it is
necessary to consider information delivery as a "social binding' process
between government and the people. In this process people are seen as
active participants with a legitimate need to understand and to know what
government is proposing and a right to express their reservations and
anxieties, which need to be allayed, for the achievement of successful
change programs. 8uilding confidence in government policies and programs
in the minds of the public requires a style of communication that attempts
to meet the people 'more than half way.' Not only must it clearly identify
their self-interest and the relevance of the proposed action to their
needs, but it must also involve them in planning and implementing measures
for promoting communal well-being. In the context of the National
Population Programme this implies a massive social mobilization effort such
as has perhaps never been attempted before in Nigeria. The underlying
purpose of the subproject therefore is to assist the FMOI to put in place a
credible structure for public information, stressing institution building
and training.
Activities Carried Out under the Subproiect
18.      Strengthening of selected training and research institutions.  To
help strengthen selected training and research institutes to support a
national population IEC effort, the subproject will undertake the following
activities:
(a)   Two existing institutions with demonstrated expertise in
communication theory and practice (tentatively the University of
Lagos and the Anambra State University of Science and Technology)
plus the National Institute of Public Information (NIPI) at
Kaduna, which is the training of arm of FMOI, will be assisted in
refurbishing facilities; staff development; and provision of
teaching and research equipment, transportation, and
documentation; and
(b)   Selected staff of these training institutions will be offered
international study tours, along with staff members of the F1T0's
new Population Information and Communication Branch and selected
staff of state information ministries.
19.      Training and orientation of key staff, officials, and
influentials. The subproject will undertake the following training and
orientation activities:
(a)   Fifty trainees who are mass communication graduates will be
supported in a one-year masters degree program in population and
development support communication;
(b) Fifty non-mass communication graduates will be supported in a one-
year program leading to a diploma in population communication;



- 140 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 7 of 10
(c)   Sixty middle-level information officers, including photographers,
artists, and folk performers, will receive an intensive one-month
-ourse in population communication leading to a certificate. The
,:ourse will be repeated twice a year during the subproject; and
(d)   Three-day seminars and workshops designed to generate awareness
and positive attitudes toward the population policy and family
planning activit$es among government officials, publishers,
editors, broadcasting executives, religious leaders and
advertising executives will be provided to 1,000 participants.
20.      Research and development of media and instructional materials.  To
facilitate the necessary underlying research and subsequent development of
instructional materials for the above training and for public IEC
materials, the subproject will support the following activitiess
(a)   To the extent they are not adequately being undertaken by other
groups, RAP studies will be conducted at the beginning and near
the end of the subproject to measure knowledge and attitude needs
and subsequent gains;
(b)   Reference materials, including research results, will be compiled
In support of the training activities described above; and
(c)   Two focal points for materials development will be developed--one
at PMOI headquarters and another in conjunction with a northern
television production center, perhaps in Sokoto State. Materials
will also be developed by the participating training institutions,
state ministries of information, and radio and television
organizations. The training institutes will play a special role
in helping develop overall plans and strategies for production,
distribution, and evaluation of IEC messages and materials.
21.      Documentation.  An important resource needed for the IEC program
is documentation on IEC strategies that have worked elsewhere, prototype
IEC materials, etc. For this reason the subproject will support the
following activitiess
(a)   Two documentation centers, one at National Institute of Public
Information (NIPI) and one in the south-east zone, will be
established;
(b)   Research data on populationifamily planning as well as IEC print
and audio visual materials will be assembled by these centers; and
(c)   Research reports and data will be analyzed and interpreted for
policy making and program planning.
22.      Community-based activities.  It is intended that FMOI, through
this subproject, will take the lead in piloting the notion of village
development volunteers. They would be supervised by general purpose



- 141 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 8 of 10
Information Officers at the LGA level. Initially this idea will be tested
in one LGA in each of the 21 states and in the Federal Capital Territory.
The details, including the number of village development volunteers to be
recruited and trained during this pilot phase, are still being worked out.
23.      Establishment of a Population Information and Communication Branch
(PICB) in FMOI. PIC8 will be created within the Department of Public
Enlightenment and State Liaison and will be responsible for planning,
designing, and implementing communication strategies and materials
production; formative research; and monitoring and evaluation. It is
intended eventually to have a staff of 34, which will be built up over the
three years of the subproject. PICB will be headed by a new assistant
director.
C. Subproiect Management and Coordination
Responsibility for Management of the Subproject
24.      Overall management of subproject activities will be the
responsibility of the Director, Department of Public Enlightenment and
State Liaison. It is expected that much of the responsibility will be
delegated to the Deputy Director. Once PICB is established within the
Department, day-to-day management of the subproject will be its
responsibility.
25.      The implementation of population communication activities by PNOI
will entail the same institutional and staff support as various sectoral
programs. Consequently elements of the federal structure such as the Films
and Photographic Divisions and others will collaborate with PICB. Since
NTA and FRCN are parastatals, special arrangements for their participation
will need to be worked out.
26.      PICB will utilize existing ministry protocols for developing
relationships and activities with the Federal Information Centers in the
states as well as with state ministries of information, parastatals, and
non-government organizations at state and local levels.
27.      Essential to effective management of the subproject will be the
regular interaction between PICB and the IEC Advisory Committee established
by DPA. Coordination with the separate, but closely related activities
being undertaken under two other subprojects by the Health Education
Division of F140H and the Nigerian Educational Research and Development
Council will be a crucial management concern.
Current and Incremental Staff Requirements
28.      Prompt and effective establishment of PICB is of key importance to
the success of the subproject. The necessary staff are to be deployed from
elsewhere in the Department of Public Enlightenment and State Liaison,
other PMOI departments, and various parastatals. It is intended that 21



- 142 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 9 of 10
staff will be mobilized for PICB in year one of the subproject, to be
joined by 13 additional staff in year three.
29.      The National Institute of Public Information (NIPI) at Kaduna will
play a key role in IEC training. Current training staff consists of four
full-time and eight part-time lecturers. Additional trainers for
specialized subjects are recruited from other units within the Ministry.
It is expected that four additional full-time and eight additional part-
time training staff plus support staff will be required by this subproject,
but a needs assessment is underway to determine the specific number and
types of additional staff required.
30.      In addition to NIPI, it is planned that some incremental staff
will be mobilized for the other major institutions being developed under
the subprojectt the university-based training center, the population
information documentation center, and the materials development center.
Subproiect Implementation
31.      The attached work program for the first three years describes the
initiation and scheduling of implementation. Establishment of PICB and of
the other key support institutions are major priorities, along with
training of all levels of staff. Nonetheless, since the institutional
developme_n aspects of the subproject will be very demanding, they have
been phased out over the three-year implementation period. Although the
subproject includes substantial support for use of the mass media and
community level IEC activities, their initiation will generally be delayed
until the core institutional development and training components are
reasonably advanced.
Monitoring and Evaluation
32.      The following input/output indicators will be used to measure
progress in the work programs
(a)   The number of persons trained--by ministry, media/training
institution, job position, etc.;
(b)   The number of IEC materials produced and distributed, their costs,
effectiveness, etc.;
(c)   The number of radio/TV programs produced and aired, quality,
reception, etc.;
(d)   The number and kind of documentation materials collected, analyzed
and disseminated; and
(e)   The exposure by target audience(s) to population/family planning
messages; evidence of knowledge gain and attitude change as
measured through baseline and follow-up surveys.



- 143 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 10 of 10
Subproject Procurement
33.      Existing 1M0I procurement mechanisms will be used for most
procurement. To the extent possible, procurement for the involved
university, NIPI and other parastatals, etc. will be combined.
Accounting and Disbursement
34.      All entities participating in subproject implementation have the
capability of accounting and disbursement or access to such services
through their relationship to a larger agencylorganization. The role of
PMOI in assuming some of these responsibilities on behalf of related groups
is still being discussed.
Coordination with other CAs and Relationship with DPA
35.      Coordination of implementation between FHOI and other bodies
within the information sector will be carried out through the National
Council of Information, whose Technical Committee meets annually.
Responsibility for coordination with other CAs involved in the population
program rests with DPA, the principal means being the IEC Advisory
Committee being set up at Federal level. Eventually similar coordination
mechanisms are to be set up at the state level as well.
D. Anticipated Follow-on Requirements after Implementation of Subproiect
36.     FMOI has the potential of providing leadership as well as
coordinating important basic IEC infrastructures. The subproject seeks to
strengthen both the institutional base and inter-institutional linkages to
facilitate a national structure for delivering effective development
oriented and population-related IEC services. Of special importance is the
role of FMOI, as a federal agency, to help institute information activities
at the LGA level where there is no formal structure for public information
activities.  Although pMI regularly engages in information development and
dissemination, its role in this subprojc.- is more that of a catalyst,
designer, and manager of the information apparatus, one which facilitates
message creation and diffusion through relay points in a network. The
subproject places great emphasis on institution building and training so
that sustainable structures required for the future will be in place.
37.      Even though the subproject recognizes the importance of utilizing
existing infrastructure to sensitize various target groups concerning
population/family planning, the main thrust during this three-year period
is aimed at building a system and a network. After this groundwork for
long-range implementation has been laid, subsequent subprojects will be
prepared by POI and/or its various partner agencies to enable them to
utilize this institutional base for a much intensified IEC effort.
Sources IDA staff with Department of Public Enlightenwent and State
Liaison, October 1989 and March 1990.



)lIOERIAa NATIWf. PPULATION PROJECT
PIbic Ealiht4ueet on Populatlo.-Wo.r Ptla
ACTIVUIITEVI WE!                                                                     t                          i
*1    42   *5    44       QI   42   *5   Q4          *1   *2   08    4
1. *rieatatiao werhehep for AlE! Directern      a
VW Chief leem.tlee offlees ce
loIon lEt
2. Eatebishmee t n Popelaitlet luf.atiomes a
Ceameulcatkes lreech to FunE
Seolol_e of staff                         3
staff swout "Woene/
S. Sri.ett.l iuewsoes for PUS! pXfa.al                a 
stuff                                                                                                                                               -&
4. Serleetat sorhahepe for media prof.eeloeMe
los t  wosops for Fedral tmfoa                    x      S
atfto" to                                               X
*.    a worhho  for Ststis Slrectere a" #d
elsoAetr sad Chief rsformetlse Officers           x      S                                                                                    a  
*. bet se       pefor Le_  l Ooversmt 
6   olaemte Mo  l iera at NIP!       l ai ote
Offlc ~ ~ a 1*I NW t
0. Roedl .oa        .for Local Oarmst
Coell Casese ad Secreories0
9.  tralslegtof t1ralsorse rlsheg  for WV, 
Mij, Telavisles Collep Staff, FM  Treioles
to. Tra2Slsg of trale  worLalp  for uaivorty          a      S
Cad pelltecAIC Mss cesmueioe st1aff



ACnTtmIs                                                W1                        vat                         w a
. qt        q2-    44       41 4t2    5    q f               42 F       4l
11. oIb_s tele  selltie.o tee PUS! 51.5
maistuee sad 4 oa$ tasa  lntiloe                             3        3 ,,
I2. Stall *eu e tor   att et Fednal aid sat&
isiftelee, ad coll_ e 1tia  istitetioe.                                u I      x
it. Develegmst f totrech, ap..tpethb of uII           a   *t                             a 
IaIlghtwAmst divistes of FWI a  s   erS
fo tot iSC wic .it,,sa too l..l.d pwiseti..
i,totmitiem
14. Felt mmdl prod      e werhebp  sa" pfot                  a x
mmmasee threoh UAUUijL..a O.v.ramaka
is. Tirlalao  *t of villa. ltomtioa  wo                                   a u    x
at Uri
10. Sb.volSiSi n SUppoteo  2 tt     01 R lt4tlsl3      x     a   x         3   s         x      u                                                       5
1?. bst6b. d, nliops, prodt"tom, sd                                   3 3        3      3      3     3      3             x
ta_misleele ot pilot 'bilemOvoll  s 5TA
oebAotk ma ado 'eem. sottee' *o PUCK
01 out * 1" "
g.Imobitsbae.i deveopoment suPp6ort tot             3                           3      3     3                          3
traisiag  Amto      NWM   to sable them too
dwvelop oireisilsp mmdust treiogsig
baa folr aelml EC aiviiS.
ig.  Utoriel psSpfltsiesa,,bliatioO md                          3                           I      3      3      *      g                          f
distribeie ls of pelatiem sall leti sd
MOltW  pebi istalea
go.  c.tallhmib Na suppot to N"l 0I                                                                                                                  f
21. TraSIOSi  Felk0sbi1.                                     3   3         3      3      5 s          3      3      U      3
12.                                                               a Oe1  a                                   3



- 146 -
Attachment to Annex 3-7
Page 3 of 3
IIGLEMEHTATIOI SCHEDULE FOR ST}EIGNC
THE FDERAL MNSTY OF INFOUNASTON
IN BUILDING CONSENSUS AND AWARENESS FOR .TUE
POPULATION PROGAM
DATSE   I            ITEM              jRZSPONSIBILITY
Yearl                                   |
Q  9    llstablisbment of Population   I
Information & Coumununication I   1)0
Branch
I                              I
IConducted workshops P10       |
lofficials and LGA - opinion   I   E1I
Leaders.                      1
I                              I
Year 2    1
IDeveloped Documentation          i 1O0
Q 2      ICenters.
II
I 
Q 4      lInstitutional Building for    |   FMOI
INlPI, tWILAG & ASTC!
icompleted.
Year 3
Q  1     IDevelopment, Production        I
land Transmission of TV        I   1M0I
land Radio drama series.       l
l                              l
l                              l



- 147 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 9
NIGEIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of Joint Appraisal of Subvroiect on
Population/Family Life Education through Primary Schools
Population Education Department,
Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC)
A. Rationale and Background
Constraints, Problems, and Issues
1.        This subproject reflects a significant change in government
attitude resulting from (a) an inability to provide the people with the
necessities of life due to rapid population growth, (b) the lack of social
and demographic data on which to base planning and decision making, and (c)
realization of the need for policy and program measures to effectively
integrate population issues into national development plans.
2.        The National Population Policy (NPP) stresses creation of
awareness among citizens of the effects of rapid population growth,
provision of information and education on reasonable family size, education
of young people on sexual relationships, fertility regulation, family
planning, and responsible parenthood, making family planning services and
information readily available and improvement in rural living conditions as
a means of slowing rural migration.
3.        Since 1981 PMOE, through the Nigerian Educational Research and
Development Council (NERDC), has written instructional materials, developed
curricula, produced teaching/learning materials, and begun the process of
training master trainers and classroom teachers. More recently the program
has been expanded to include family life education. Population/Family Life
Education is currently being taught in pilot schools in 20 states of the
Federation. In addition to its in-school activities, NERDC serves out-of-
school youth and provides population related information to the general
public.
4.        The population education program is now positioned for major
implementation based on its sound preparation over the last several years.
Description of NERDC
5.        The population education program is being implemented by NERDC
through the Department of Population Education (see attached organigram).
The Executive Secretary of NERDC administers a federal level staff of 13
senior and 13 support personnel, and was advised by an international
consultant till 1989. Desk officers for each state (and Abuja) link NIRDO
with the states and help implement population education in the field.
6.        State Population Education Committees (SPECs) representing the
ministries of Education, Information, and Health, as well as institutions
of higher learning, mass media, and women's organizations, also assist



- 148 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 9
NERDC in program implementation, monitoring of school activities,
distribution of teachingilearning materials, and liaison with Local
Governments. The Chief Education Officer (CEO) at the LOA Education
Department is responsible for coordination all Population Education
activities at the Local Government level.
Involvement in the National Population Programme
7.        FMOE, through NERDC, has been committed to education of school
children and out-of-school youth in the implication of population changes
since 1981, in collaboration with UNESCO and UNFPA. Major activities bave
Included textbook review, curriculum development, materials development and
teacher training, public awareness, research, and information and
documentation.
8.        The NERDC's new Governing Council has approved plans to
implement classroom activities in selected secondary schools as well as at
the primary school level. The primary school effort will cover Local
Government Areas (LGAs) in which PHC has some reasonable presence. In
direct response to the goals of the NPP, NERDC has begun incorporating
family life education as a component of population education into school
curricula, expanding educational training for both men and women, promoting
improved status of women and providing information and education aimed at
motivating men to assume responsibility for small family size and
responsible parenthood.
Current Po9ulationlFamily Life Education Activities and Their Sources of
Funding
9.        Current materials development, revision, and testing,
preparation of master teachers, classroom teacher training, population
education research, and public information activities are funded by UMNPA
through UNESCO, which has also provided an international advisor. USAID is
currently assisting with the integration of family life educat .on into
school curricula at secondary school level through the Center for
Development and Population Activities (CEDPA).
Preparation of the Subproject Proposal
10.       The subproject proposal, submitted to DPA in June 1989, was
prepared by the staff of the Population Education Department with the
assistance of the UNESCO Adviser and staff of other departments of NERDC.
The process was facilitated by the reporting requirements imposed by UNESCO
and UNFPA, which resulted in detailed documentation of program development
since 1981. Bank input to the process has been reflected through project
identification activities both in the population and education sectors.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproiect
Subpro3ect Obiectives
11.       The subproject objectives build on a hierarchy of objectives and
goals that have guided program development since 1981. They include (a)



- 149 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 9
long term goals, (b) immediate objectives, (c) secondary school objectives,
which vill be reviewed and adapted for primary school, and (d) program
Implementation objectives.
12.       Long-term goals support government population goals included in
the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-1985) and the National Policy on
Education (1981) designed to make the content of general education more
responsive to the socio-economic needs of individuals and the country.
13.       Immediate Objectives in the context of population education
includet
(a) Identification of both in-school and out-of-school needs and
problems;
(b) Analysis of existing curriculum materials, syllabi, and teaching
and learning materials, and development of guidelines for
appropriate content and modes of introducing change in various
curricula;
(c) Contributions through public information to greater awareness
and knowledge of population changes and their implications;
(d) Development of desirable attitudes and behaviors concerning
population issues among teachers, students, and citizens at
large, leading to rational decisions affecting the quality of
their lives;
(e) Development of appropriate curriculum materials;
(f)  Incorporation ;f population concepts into pre-service and in-
service teacher training;
(g) Preparation of master teachers; and
(h) Development of relevant teaching/learning materials, a
newsletter, sourcebooks, and audio-visual materials for both
classroom teaching and public enlightenment.
14.       Objectives specific to secondary school students that will be
reviewed and adopted for primary schools include the ability to:
(a) Recognize implications of population growth for the availability
of education, health services, water, and housing;
(b) Relate the size of the family to availability of food and other
facilities and to family productivity;
(c) Explain how household and national population status affects
demand and consumption of goods and services;



150 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 4 of 9
(d) Recognize how population growth, constraints on resource
development, and family consumption levels have affected the
economy and quality of life;
(e) Compare the balance between population and resources in Nigeria
with that in other countries;
(f) Understand the importance of food self-sufficiency and
implications of food imports; and
(g) Appreciate the uses of population data and develop a sense of
responsibility for census and vital statistics activities.
15.       Population Education Programme implementation objectives
include:
(a) Institutionalization of population education at all levels of
the educational system;
(b) Assistance to individuals in defining their own population
related problems, understanding the causes and consequences of
population changes, and evaluating alternatives actions they and
their communities can take to enhance the quality of life; and
(c) Complementing other population related programs aimed at
Improving individual, family, and national quality of life.
16.       Five short-term objectives relate specifically to the subproject
and its implementation over the next three years. They are tot
(a) Strengthen LGA level implementation of population educations
(b) Develop population education curriculum for primary schools;
(c) Develop, produce, and distribute instructional materials for
primary schools;
(d) Train teachers and other personnel at the LGA level for their
roles in introduction of population education into primary
schools; and
(e) Monitor and evaluate effective implementation of the subproject
at the LGA level.
Relationship between Subproiect and National Population Policy/Proramme
17.       The subproject clearly reflects a redirection of population
goals in response to the strategies of the national population policy
which, for example, states that "national and community programmes should
make use of the potentials of young persons to contribute to social and
economic development." Separate sections dealing with the role and
responsLbilities of men in family life, the role and status of women in
development, children and youth, and population education and information



- 151 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 5 of 9
each include recommended strategies directly reflected in the subproject.
18.       With special reference to the current three-year Plan of
Implementation for the National Population Programme, this subproject
reflects the following main activities spelled out theres
(a)  5.5.5--Population/Family Life Education shall be incorporated
into formal and vocational training to assist young people to
prepare themselves for responsible parenthood8
(b)  5.4.6--Education for women shall be promoted equally and special
population education and information programme in the areas of
fertility regulation... and health promotion shall be provided.
(c)  5.3.2--Appropriate mechanisms shall be developed for
disseminating available demographic information to policy
makers, project officers, researchers, and the general public.
Activities to be Carried Out under the Subproject
19.       Major activities to be carried out under the subproject during
the three years it will be under implementation are summarized as followst
(a)  Strengthening of LGA level implementation through:
gi) Conducting two meetings yearly of CEOs in LGAs where
population education/family life education is being
implemented;
(ii) LGA level meetings once a year of the CEO and Headmasters
of schools where population education is being taught; and
(iii) Two visits annually by the LGA Population Education
Coordinator, i.e., the CEO, to all schools offering
population education.
(b) Curriculum development as followst
(i) By year one to have developed Pop/FLE curriculum for
primary schools in four subjects; and
(ii) By year two to have printed 16,000 copies of Pop/iLE
curriculum for primary schools.
(c) Instructional materials development, production and distribution
including:
(i) By year one to have developed teachers guides, self-
learning modules, teaching charts, and pupils' text/work
book for primary schools; and



- 152 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 6 of 9
(11) Printing by year one of 16,000 copies of teachers guides,
30,000 copies of the self-learning modules, 13,000 sets of
the teaching charts, and 400,000 pupils' text/workbook.
(d) Training of teachers and other personnel includings
(i) Refresher training for 110 existing teacher trainers by
year two;
(it) Selection and training of 4,520 classroom teachers by year
two and another 4,520 by year three;
(iii) One-day orientation training for 1,130 headmasters by year
two and another 1,130 by year three; and
(iv) Training of Population Education Department staff as
follows:
(1) Higher degree training of three senior officers by
year two/three; and
(2) Refresher training in implementation, management,
monitoring, and evaluation for 22 state desk officers
by year one.
(e) Monitoring and evaluation activities as followss
(i) Two-days training in monitoring and evaluation for 113
Local Government CEOs to be conducted by year two;
(ii) Monitoring visits by five senior national officers in
February, May, August, and November each year to states and
LOAs and to selected schools where population education is
being taught;
(iii) Two visits each year to assigned states/LGAs by NERDC State
Desk Officers;
(iv) Annual evaluation surveys of effectiveness of population
education teaching;
(v) In-depth evaluation of program implementation by the sub-
committee on evaluation by the third year; and
(vi) Twice a year administrative and implementation reports by
CEOs.
(f) Establishment of the National Population Education Center at
Abuja.
20.       The main inputs required for the subproject are as follows:



- 153 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 7 of 9
(a) Strengthening of LGA level implementations travel, maintenance,
and meeting costs;
(b) Development, production, and distribution of instructional
materials: workshop costs; payments to artists, writers and
editors; and costs of materials production;
(c) Training of teachers and other personnel; workshop and seminar
costs, travel, and advanced degree training costs.
(d) Monitoring and evaluations travel, subsistence costs, and costs
of evaluation surveys; and
(e) Vehicles and maintenances four vehicles and their maintenance
costs.
(f) National Population Center: comprehensive design, construction,
and equipment costs.
C. Subproiect ManaRement and Coordination
Responsibility for Management of the Subproiect
21.       The Executive Secretary of NERDC has overall responsibility for
implementation of the subproject, but he will delegate day-to-day
responsibility to the Head of the Population Education Department. A desk
officer resident in NERDC is assigned to each state and is responsible for
maintaining liaison between relevant Federal, State and LGA officers.
Since each LGA Education Department is the channel to local schools, the
CEO is responsible for implementation at that level.
Incremental Staff Reauirements
22.       Incremental staff requirements for the subproject are related to
the development of the National Population Education Centre and are as
follows:
POSITION NAME                              NUMBER REQUIRED
Assistant Director of Education                     1
Chief Education Research Officer                    2
Assistant Chief Educ. Res. Officer                  2
Principal Education Research Officer                4
Senior Education Research Officer/
Senior Administrative Officer                       4
Education Research Officer                          3



154 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 8 of 9
Public Relations Officer                            1
Writers                                             2
Audio-Visual (AV) Technician                        1
Audio-Visual (AV) Operator                          I
Photographer                                        I
Graphic Artist                                      1
Clerk Typists                                       4
Messengers                                          2
Duplication Machine Operator                        1
Library Assistant                                   1
Technical Adviser                                   1
Steps in Sgbproiect Im_lementation
23.       The attached work *lan provides a quarter-by-quarter profile of
Implementation. It shows that development, production, and distribution of
materials and teacher training are given priority in the schedule.
Procedures for monitoring and evaluation will be established early and
systematically conducted. Establishment of the National Center is
scheduled for early in year two through the middle of year three.
Arrangements for Monitoring and Evaluation
24.       The Population Education Department will conduct a one-day
workshop on monitoring for CEOs early in year two. Monitoring of school
level activities by Population Education Department staff and State Desk
Officers will begin in the middle of year two and continue throughout.
Program evaluation by the Population Education Department staff and the
subcommittee on research and evaluation will be carried out annually.
Subproiect Procurement
25.       Procurement of equipment, supplies, and vehic.es will be
arranged on behalf of the Population Education Department by the NERDC
Tenders Board, which will also be responsible for construction of the new
center.
Subproject Accounting and Disbursement
26.       Accounting and disbursement under the subproject will be the
responsibility of the relevant units in NERDC.



- 155 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 9 of 9
Coordination with Other Collaborating Agencies and DPA
27.       Vhen NERW (formerly NERC) assumed responsibility for population
education, a National Population Education Committee was formed. Similar
to its counterpart committees at state level, it includes representatives
of other ministries as well as non-government groups such as the National
Council of Women's Organizations, and more recently the Planned Parenthood
Federation of Nigeria and the National Council for Population Activities.
Given the increasing emphasis on family life education, the latter two
organizations provide important input. Overall the National Committee
plays a strong role in coordinating NERDC population education activities
with those of related agencies.
28.       With establisbment of the Department of Population Activities
(DPA), NERDC has systematically participated in all planning and strategy
development activities organized by DPA for the purpose of implementing the
national population policy.
D. Anticipated Follow-On Requirements
29.       Population/family life education materials are to be developed
and produced for testing in the primary schools, of which there are 35,000
serving some 1X million students in Nigeria. Since funding from other
donors does not appear likely to be sufficient to support major program
Implementation, not only will Bank assistance be necessary in the short
term, but essential for expansion beyond current program parameters. Funds
from the Bank will be used for pilot implementation of the program at
primary school level. A total of about 2,260 schools and 9,040 teachers
and 1.6 million students would be reached during the three years of
Implementation.
Sources Population Education Department, Nigerian Educational Research and
Development Council, Nay 1990.



NI4EIA: NaTINAL POPULATION PROJECT
Populstloo/Fmtly Life Edrntion throug  Primary bcho.Is - lo Plan
ACTIVrES                                                     V   1R 2                                     YR 8
A. Strag&1eelmg of LOA Lool
Wlzdetlon
1. CEO quarterly ue                           x      x     x      x  I       x      x     x  a       x      a      s
2. istlag with Noadasre.                      a                       x                       x
S. meltortao Visit.                                  s            a           x            x         a            a
B. IJstrut     l moterists .,.lo.o..
Van Production A Diateltbtoe
1. bovlopt of ISltwtioel materi al
A. Noattoe  Pop. Ed... Currlul..           a             a     x                                                                            t
bovelogi-Ma
8. T    _&eh.r'O  l<b                      x      x      x     a
C. Pupil* Toat/Workb"oo                    x      x      a     a
D. Stf-le.rnlig Modules                    a      x      s     s
S. ToblhagOrts                            a      ss  x        a x
* S
2. Pristing VW   Produton of maril                                                                                                           3
o  a
A. Natloonl Popietlo. Ed.a. curriculm                    a     x                                                                         V.
for Peimry Schools                                                                                                                    g
B. TaacWr"  Gulde                                        a                     .
C. Pqp%lI' Toab/.ulibook                                 a     a



- 157 -
Attachment to Annex 348
Page 2 of 3
I~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e  l# 
i  a;   "      "                                 n              "                    n IZ   "
3.                                     N                    N          N   N       
#4                         i    ! | a              j1 1   
E   Q   S   $   <   '    Q    o   "        a    <*  N   N          
.4                                 N         *                  N             



- 158 -
Attachment to Annex 3-8
Page 3 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCEEDULE TO tNCORPORATE POPULATION/
FAKMILY PL^UiCNG EDUCATION TNTO PRIMARY SCEOOLS CURRICCULA
rMGERMAN EDUCATIONAL RESEARCN & DEVELOP)ENT COUNCIL (NEXDC)
-------------------------------.__-----_----_--------------- __-__---
DATE   I                  ITE                  jRESPONSISZLITY
Ö- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Year I   |1.  Result of research survey
Q 4      12.  Development of Draft of Curriculum  |
based on research results.               NERDC
13. Outcomes of CEOs and Xeadmasters
orientation.                        |
Year 2   11. Final form of population educatlon
;   4urricuLum for primary school.      I
Q 2      12. Draft of Iustructional Materials
- Teachers Guide
3    - Pupil Text/Workbook
I    - charts .                               UERDC
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
13. Visit to Population Education
Center, Abuja
Q 3      1I. Final form of Instructional Materials]
-    - Teachers Guide                   |
- Pupil Text/Workbook
-     . Charts
12. Outcome of Teacher Training         I     URDC
13. Draft of self-learlnag modules
14. Result of monitoring and
wevaluation visits.
Year 3   11. Outcome  of training.
Q 1.     12. Printed foar for instructiovAl
materials.                          I
I                            I ~~~~~~~~~~EDC
13. Result of formative Impact evaluationj
I                                       I
14. Commissioning of Population
Education Center.
I                             |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Q  3     1. Outcome of classroom teaching
12. Visit to school.
a. Results of final evaluation.         I



- 159 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 9
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of Appraisal of Subproiect on
Monitoring of the National Population Programme Impact through
a Sentinel Survey System
Planning and Reserach Department, National Population Commission (NPC)
A.   Background
1.        Constraints, problems and issues subproiect will address.  The
national policy document on population stresses the important role of
monitoring, evaluation and research to the overall success of policy
implementation. Especially crucial for this purpose will be systems to
provide continuous and timely feedback to policy makers and program
officers regarding population and family planning patterns, trends and
effects. Such assessment should especially be applied purposefully in
areas where policy and program impacts can be most expected. This will
enhance planning, give positive feedback to encourage more policy support,
and identify problems so that needed program adjustments can be made. The
subproject on sentinel surveys to be financed under the proposed Bank-
funded National Population Project has therefore been designed to respond
to this need. This subproject will complement more conventional, on-going
data collection activities, such as the National Demographic and Health
Survey, the forthcoming 1991 national population census, service statistics
and other data collection instruments.
2.        Description of collaborating agency (CA). The National
Population Commission (NPC), which has the mandate to collect, process and
analyze population data in the country, will be responsible for the
Implementation of the subproject. The commission is made up of eight
departments (see attached organigram). The governing body of the
commission is made up of the Chairman, seven commissioners, the Director
and a secretary. The commissioners are the *politicalladministrative'
heads of the departments, and deputy directors are the technical heads.
The implementation of this subproject will be handled by the Planning and
Research Department. (The structure and details of the subproject
management are discussed in Section C.)
3.        The NPC has offices in all 21 state capitals (including Abuja),
with an Assistant Director as the head of each. The State offices have the
direct supervisory and implementation responsibility for NPC's activities
at the Stats and Local Government level. The composition and number of
staff at these offices vary significantly from State to State. However,
the more populous States, such Oyo, Kano, Sokoto, Imo and Anambra, have
sufficiently large complements of field staff and office personnel.
4.        CA's relationships with states and local government
administrations. Although NPC offices in most states are located close the
state ministries, they are independent of the state apparatus, responsible
directly to the head office at the Federal level. Data collected at state
and local government levels are first collated at state offices and then



- 160 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 9
transmitted to the Federal office for processing and anslysis. As little
or no capacity exists at the state level for data processing and analysis,
there is apparently no direct flow of information from the state offices to
the state administration. Currently, however, NPC stLte offices utilize
state and local goveroment facilities in their data collection exercises,
and in the case of the on-going pilot vital registration system, attempts
are being made to coordinate their efforts with those of the local
goverNment administrations. Most of the data collection points for the
Vital Registration System are located at local government administration
offices. Moreover, the heads of NPC state offices are encourage to get
involve in State level population matters, many of them serving on various
committees and providing advice and guidance on matters relating to
population. Furthermore, efforts are underway to decentralize the
Commission, creating zonal offices in the each of the seven administrative
zones created by NPC, with the capability to process and analyze data
collected at the state and local government levels. It is expected that
the decentralization effort will forge greater linkages with both levels of
administration.
5.        Rationale for CA's Involvement in the National Population
Program. In light of the mandate given it by the Federal government as the
key agency responsible for population data collection, NPC is perhaps the
best placed agency to implement this subproject. Moreover, NPC
successfully implemented the Pilot Sentinel Survey, which formed the basis
for the development of the proposed subproject. Although most of the staff
of the Planning and Research Department are relatively new, there is
evidence of strong commitment to the implementation of this subproject,
which was independently prepared by the staff of the department. During
appraisal of the subproject, the deputy director of the department, the
assistant director and all unit chiefs participated at every meeting,
demonstrating keen interest in ensuring the success of the exercise.
6.        CA's current populationlfamily planning activities and sources
of funding. The NPC is currently gearing up for the forthcoming National
Population Census scheduled for late 1991. The mapping exercise is about
completed, following which pre-tests and a pilot census will be undertaken.
The Commission has been responsible for a number of demographic surveys,
such as the World Fertility Survey and the National Demographic Sample
Survey. However, owing to the anticipated demand on NPC's resources during
the forthcoming census, the Commission has limited all other data
collection exercises to the minimum. Only two key two data collection
exercises will continue during this period, namely the pilot vital
registration system and the proposed sentinel survey, both of which will
have independent field staff employed full-time.
7.        Funding for NPC's activities are derived from several sources,
including international agencies. Government subvention is, however, the
single major source of funding. The most active external source of funding
for the NPC has been the UNFPA. Funding for the forthcoming National
Census is coming largely form the Government, with additional support from
interested bilateral agencies (such as the Britik and the Un..ted States
Governments) and UNPPA. The United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) has also in the past provided resources to the NPC.



- 161 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 9
The Pilot Sentinel survey was financed by USAID under a contract with the
Futures Group. The proposed subproject will be the Bank's first support to
the NPC.
8.        LinkaRes with Nigerian and international aRencies.  As the focal
point for population data in the country, the Commission has collaborative
arrangements with several institutions, both internal and external. In
Nigeria, the Commission collaborates closely with most public sector
institutions interested in population data: the Ministries of Finance and
Economic Development, Budget and Planning, Health, Education, etc.
Moreover, as a major source of data for analytical work in the social
sciences the NPC has close relationship with some of the universities in
the country. NPC has from time to time drawn on the intellectual resources
at the universities for its analytical work. NISER (Ibadan) and Obafemi
Awolowo University in Ife have been the most active partners. Private
sector collaboration has, however, been limited.
9.        Furthermore, by virtue of the usually large financial outlay and
technical assistance required for census operations, the Commission has
always had strong collaborative arrangement with external sources of
funding. As mentioned above, the UNFPA, USAID and the U.S.Bureau of census
are providing technical and financial support for the forthcoming census.
10.       Process of preparation of subproiect proposal.  In view of the
fact this subproject builds on the experience from the recently completed
Pilot Sentinel Survey, the preparation has been undertaken rather quickly.
The Planning and Research Department have been solely responsible for the
preparation of the subproject, utilizing extensively the evaluation results
of the Pilot Sentinel Survey.
B.   Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproject
11.       Subproiect Obiectives. The proposed subproject has been designed
with the following objectives:
(a) to provide continuous feedback to policy-makers of information
on fertility and family planning usage so that changes in
fertility can be readily detected;
(b) to apply the data collection methodology in a purposive sample
of sentinel areas where fertility decline is expected and where
other inputs of the population program (IEC, health workers,
clinics, community action, etc.) are known;
(c)  to maintain independence of this evaluation tool from family
planning service statistics by relying on direct measures of
fertility instead of statistics about contraceptive usage;
(d) to obtain data on birth interval distribution for a sample of
women as a sensitive indicator of fertility change and to apply
recent developments in birth interval analysis; and



- 162 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 4 of 9
(e) to ensure high-quality birth interval data by establishing
parallel mechanisms for collecting and cross-checking data on
the fertility behavior of women participating in the study so
that omission and misdating are kept to the minimum.
12.       Relationship between subproiect and national population
policiJprogram strategy. This subproject is seen as one of the key
elements under monitoring and evaluation activities proposed under the
national population strategy. It will respond to a major policy objective
of ascertaining the impact of the national program on fertility reduction.
The sentinel system should be differentiated with respect to both
objectives and methodology from national ferti ity surveys, such as the
World Fertility Survey and the Demographic and Health Surveys. National
surveys are designed to provide national estimates of fertility and
mortality and to document fertility differentials among population
subgroups. Depending on the design of the survey instrument, they may also
document past trends in fertility. The sentinel system is designed to
detect changes in fertility, within a reasonable short span of time after
changes occur, for targeted subgroups of women who are expected a priori to
be most likely to 3dopt contraception in order to space births or stop
childbearing. This approach will therefore complement other data gathering
exercises, including service records and prevalence surveys. There are
several reasons for wanting to evaluate the impact of population programs
on fertility and not rely exclusively on indicators of program
participation. Factors other than contraception may account for changes in
fertility. Lessening of traditional practices of prolonged breast feeding
and of postpartum abstinence associated with urbanization and modernization
will increase fertility, particularly in a society with low initial
contraceptive usage. Later age at marriage associated with improved female
access to education may significantly reduce fertility. By not relying on
family planning service statistics as the sole criteria for evaluating
programs, one can have greater confidence that reported successes are not
merely due to the exaggerated claims of service providers. With special
reference to the current three-year Plan of Implentation for the NPP, the
following activities are of special relevance to this subprojects
(a) (5.8.4. Nos. 2 & 4)--Efforts shall be devoted to achieving
fuller and and more timely analysis and interpretation of census
and survey data for economic and social development planning;
and
(b) 5.8.7--Particular efforts shall be made to intensify social
action oriented research work.
13.       Subproiect description
(a) Scope and coverage. The subproject will cover 12 states of the
Federation with 10 enumerations areas (EAs) selected from each
of these states, to include both rural and urban EAs. Three
States will be selected from each of the four health zones. The
participat:ing Local Government Administrations will be drawn
from the model PlC LGAs and will be designated sentinel site.
for the purposes of the survey. Among the LGAs to be covered



- 163 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 5 of 9
will be those that are receiving intensive family planning
inputs through the subproject being implemented by the Family
Health Division of the Federal Ministry of Health's Primary
Health Care Department.
(b) Main elements of the subproiect. The proposed strategy for data
collection and analysis includes (i) the conduct a baseline
survey of women in targeted enumeration areas; (ii) a continuous
recording of eligible women (i.e., married with at least one
child) on a monthly basis; (iii) re-interview of each woman at
six months' intervals; (iv) 'matching' system between the
continuous and periodic data collection strategies and follow-up
checks will be employed to maximize data quality; 1/ (v)
analysis of the data to assess current patterns and changes over
time, including use of recently developed statistical techniques
in order to quickly detect trends; (vi) feedback of project
results to policy makers and program implementors to assess and
adjust policy/program patterns 2/.
(c) Inputs. To undertake the data collection activities described
above, the subproject will finances
(i)   Incremental salaries of 240 interviewers and recorders to
be recruited, two per sentinel site--one recorder and one
interviewer. There will be 10 sites per State, 12 States
to be covered, over a three-year period;
(ii) Training costs--materials and supplies;
(iii) Per diem for out-of-state supervision, including transport
costs.
l/ In the pilot survey, a recorder visited 60 to 70 women per month. Thus
for 10 EAs per state, 600-700 women will be systematically followed, with
new entrants and attrition as the months proceed. If, however, the system
is designed so that each women is visited once every six months, then one
interviewer can cover 360 to 420 respondents, every six months. Thus for
each selected state there will about 3600 to 4200 women under observation
on a regular basis. Conducting the rounds in stages so that each task
takes six months to complete requires that all events (births, pregnancies,
contraceptive use) be dated at lfast to the nearest month since simply
noting the round number will not adequately identify when events took
place.
21 Within this framework, it will be possible to periodically introduce
special-purpose questions, key events will be less likely to be omitted
than in a retrospective design, and it will be possible to establish
linkages between family planning usage and subsequent fertility.



- 164 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 6 of 9
(iv) Equipment and materials, including four PCs and
accessories, and software packages for data processing and
analysis.
(v)   One four-wheel drive vehicle to enhance supervision of
sentinel sites by head office staff.
C.   Subproiect Management and Coordination
14.       Unit and specific officials responsible for overall management
of the subproiect implementation. The subproject will be the direct
responsibility of the Planning and Research Department of the NPC, under
the direct supervision of the deputy director of the department. One of
his assistants is the only member of the department with prior exposure to
sentinel survey, and thus will have the overall technical responsibility.
15.       Current and incremental staff requirements for subproiect.  The
department has a professional staff of 12, all having post graduate diploma
or masters level training. There are two economists, two sociologists, one
geographer, seven demographers andlor population researchers. Although the
number and staff mix of the department is adequate for the its current
level of activity, all members of the department, with the exception of
two, are recent recruits, with little or no experience in the conduct of
sentinel types surveys. Some technical assistance and training will
therefore be required at various stages of implementation in order to
strengthen the implementation capacity of the department. With regard to
field work, the incremental staff requirement will be 240 field staff to be
retained for the three years of the subproject--10 field interviewers and
10 recorders will be required for each of the proposed 12 states. (NPC
does not have a permanent cadre of field staff; they are recruited as
needed.)
16.       Main steps in subproiect implementation and timing of each.
(a) Selection of EAs. A list of 10 EAs located in rural and urban
areas will be selected for each of the 12 states. However, the
five EAs selected during the pilot phase will be maintained.
Their Selection will be identified in collaboration with the PHC
Department in the Federal Ministry of Health in order to cover
areas where the family planning program is likely to be more
intensive. The households selected will not be nationally
representative, but rather representative of small, well-defined
areas in which the local inputs of the family planning program
are known and where the effects are expected to be observed.
This approach should be less expensive to implement than a large
sample survey which incurs heavy travel cost. The analytical
emphasis will be on detecting changes in fertility over time,
not on identifying differences between population subgroups.
(b)  Training.  A five-day training workshop will be conducted for
NPC assistant directors and their assistants in each of the 12
states, and they in turn will conduct training for the field



- 165 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 7 of 9
staff to be recruited. Each state assistant director will
identify a total of 24 field staff as interviewers and recorders
to participate in the training. In the end, 20 wvii be retained
for the actual field work. The interviewers will be responsible
for conducting the initial baseline survey, the bi-annual
interviews of women, and the follow-up survey one year after the
baseline survey. The recorders will maintain monthly records on
events occurring to women identified in the baseline survey.
(c) Field Work. Mi) The baseline survey will be conducted
concurrently in each of the 12 states with emphasis on
identifying married women or women who have ever given birth to
at least one child in each of the household and on obtaining
information on the two most recent births and family planning
use before the survey. Preliminary tabulation for this survey
will be available for policy analysis not more that two months
after the survey is conducted. (ii) Monthly recording will be
initiated. The resident recorders will each month turn in forms
to the state offices documenting any pregnancies, births,
marriages and child deaths occurring within their designated EA.
(iii) Every six months the interviewers will revisit each
household identified in the baseline survey to obtain
retrospective information as identified in the monthly recording
for the previous six months. They will also obtain additional
information on family planning usage, breast feeding status and
health problems for any children under two. (iv) Conduct of the
follow-up survey, which basically is a repeat of the baseline
survey but with the inclusion of additional questions based on
accumulated experience with the dual record system.
(d) Data Processing and Evaluation. (i) State-level personnel will
initiate the matching system by comparing reports of recorders
and interviewers to noted events detected in one system and
missed in another or discrepancies in the dating of events.
(ii) By following up on mismatched events, discrepancies noted
will be reported to the bi-annual interviewer who has the
responsibility for obtaining clarification from any woman
involved. (iii) The baseline report is prepared, summarizing
the experience gained through the first bi-annual report. It
will summarize the results of the baseline survey with
particular emphasis on contraceptive prevalence by method and
the distributions of open and last closed intervals. (iv)
Coding, data entry and bi-annual report. After the baseline
survey, a record will be created for each woman with fields for
all information obtained in the baseline, the two bi-annual
interviews and the follow-up survey. All forms will be sent to
the NPC office in Lagos for coding and analysis.
(e) Analysis. The primary fertility measure of interest will be the
distribution of open birth intervals for a group of women. As
women space births out or stop childbearing at earlier ages,
there will be a shift towards a greater proportion of women with
longer birth intervals--so that the average or median interval



- 166 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 8 of 9
will increase. The distribution of open birth intervals is a
better reflection of recent fertility than other indices, such
as average number of children ever-born or births in a specific
period of time, and the required information on when a birth
took place should be subject of better recall. Relying on the
length of open birth intervals to measure changes in fertility
places a strong requirement on accurately dating when the last
birth occurred for each woman. This should be facilitated by
the prospective data collection strategy. In addition to simply
comparing distribution of open intervals, multivariate life
table techniques can be used to analyze birth interval data.
These analytical techniquea are widely used in biomedical and
demographic research but have not been significantly exploited
as a tool for evaluating family planning programs. Given the
technical analytical work required, it was agreed that staff of
the Planning and Research Department of NPC would work closely
with analysts from the Carolina Population Center during the
data analysis stage of the subproject.
17.       Arrangements for monitoring and evaluation of subproject,
including specific indicators. The value of the proposed sentinel system
of data collection is in its ability to provide accurate and sensitive data
on fertility and other demographic indicators. Thus monitoring and close
supervision of the field work and data processing are very important. It
is envisioned that project officers from the headquarter will visit each of
the selected States at least four times a year. The State-level NPC staff
will have continuous monitoring and supervisory role. A record of each
omen in the sample is kept on a continuous basis.  Monthly questionnaires
filled by recorders are transmitted (after editing at the state-level) to
the head office for processing. Bi-annual reports on the data collected
will be prepared, evaluating the quality of the data, and estimating the
number of missed events and extent of misdating. This may raise questions
regarding the quality of the recording or interviewing and suggest areas
for improvement.
18.       Focal point in CA for subproject procurement.  NPC's Finance and
Supplies Department will be responsible for procurement of equipment and
materials. Disbursement will be done through a mechanism still to be
finalized with the Department of Population Activities (DPA).
19.       Arrangements for coordination with related activities carried
out by other CAs and nature of the relationship with the Department of
Population Activities. Two key users of the data to be collected under the
sentinel survey will be the PHC Department and DPA. Thus close
collaboration is essential in the selection of the sentinel sites. It is
proposed that the sentinel sites be selected form the proposed pilot LGAs
to be supervised by the PHC Department under the Family Planning
subproject. Revision of the baseline questionnaire as well as the bi-
annual questionnaire will be jointly undertaken by NPC, the PHC Department,
and DPA in order to determine key program indicators that should be
collected under the sentinel system of data collection.



- 167 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 9 of 9
D. Anticipated Follow-on Requirements after ImplementatLon of Subgroiect
20.       Implementation of the subproject is expected to cover a 3-year
period, conforming to the three-year time span proposed for all Phase I
subprojects under the National Population Project. Annual evaluation and
feedback will guide decisions on extension, expansion or termination of the
survey.
Sources IDA staff and the National Population Commission, March 1990.



SUPROJECT ON IMACT IMUTIOII 1rUCI SNTIEI  SR1  Y5TM
I=t MMN       ( P C)
Y.r I                                 Yr2Yeer S
ACTIMMIS                                                   
FQ         AS       4         1 I       2        AS       4 4t Q2                      4 a        4
of Emmerstlo  Areas (EA) 
Solotlom sd  Ideti Oatoo       a
Trehalag ot treers to r
asaltet ltd.acI                ax                                     xx                                     xx
of the It states - 24
Talalng of laterwievors
and recordwe - 664                       us                            xs                                     xx
Techical Asslete. to be 
recruited -    n 1   matmo .    x h
am
OHtfcr to be tranle  abroad
to dual rocord ey_te
-5 off loer.                          Nu
beta eanslpi NWd
diesemiatleo.                                      suxx mx Xs
Vislt to North Corollas
Pqielstloa Center tor ture                                                                          sit                                  xus  o  C
aalyticel work-2 off leer.                                                                                                                        z
On-volag Surve                           ax                 a9xax                                  xx               u
Pto cu  mest of foor                                                            so
p-oero. and one
I  vebhleh.                    as
I-



- 169-
Attachment to Annex 3-9
Page 2 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE fOR NATIONAL POPULATION
IMPACT MONITORING THROUGH SENTINEL SURVEY SYSYW
NATIONAL POPLULATION COMMISSION (NPC)
DATE   I            ITEM             I RESPONStBIUTY
Year    1 - Enumerdaon Areas 
Qustlr   I  Idenfled.                  I
I                             I
2nd      I - Thnial adstat             I
I  recrited. compute          I
I  and vehice ptocu           I
I - Project oereand           I
I  trined.                    1
I                             I
4th     I On going wrvey              I
I                             I
I Ofcers sained abroad.       I
I                             I
I                             I
gnd year  I - Train Project Offices.   I
I Interviewers and            I
I reorde                      I
I                             I
I - Ongoing surey             I
I                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
- Data analy    d            I
I disem     .                 I
kd wat  I -  T   Pro¢t omc    I
Inai             I
3rd year  I - Trained Projec Offiers.  I
InterviWers and              I
I   orders.                   I
I                             I
I  On-going survey            I
I                             I
- Data ban s and              I
I dissemlnon.                 I
I                             I



- 170 -
ANNEK 3-10
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIAs NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Outcomes of the Appraisal of a Subproject on
Integration of Population into Planning and Budgeting
Devartment of Utilities & Social Services,
Federal Ministry of BudRet & Planning (PMBP)
A. Background
1.       Constraints, problems and issues subproject vill address.
Although there is a general awareness of the need to incorporate population
factors into planning, few explicit proposals or activities exist. The
expertise for this integrated approach to planning is limited in a few
Federal planning agencies, and is virtually non-existent in state agencies.
The main constraints are an absence of reliable data together with lack of
relevant training, equipment and staff. In the past, poor delineation of
the responsibilities of the core involved agencies (PMBP, NPC, and DPA) has
led to duplication. The new civil service reform, which requires (i)
Federal Ministries to establish Departments of Planning, Research and
Statistics linked to the Federal MInistry of Budget and Plawring, and (ii)
States to establish Planning Departments usually linked to an Office of
Planning and Budget in the Governor's Office, provides the opportunity to
clarify areas of responsibility, and to strengthen functional capability.
2.       Description of FMBP.  The Federal Ministry of Budget and Plauning
is responsible for supervising the strategic planning of the Government.
As euch, it issues guidelines for the National Development Plan; the
Federal agencies then articulate the policies; and the PMBP is responsible
for their coordination. The PMBP is one of the newly created agencies
arising from the recent Civil Services reform. Its substantive
responsibilities, which are budget and planning, were formerly shared by
the Federal Ministries of National Planning and Finance. Now, the formal
linkage is via the Planning Departments of the ministries. One of FMEP's
eight departments, the Department of Utilities and Social Services includes
a Division for Social Services, within which is the Health and Population
Section, which has prepared this subproject. The implementation of the
subproject would be handled by this Department.
3.       FMBP's Relationship with States and Local Government
Administrations. The Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning has formal
links to all State governments through the Office of the Governor, with a
mandate for coordination similar to that for Federal activities. While the
responsibilities are broad-ranging, the staffing is limited, as discussed
in Section C.
4.       Rationale for PMBP's involvement in the National Population
Programme (NPP). Given its mandate for coordination of the national plans
of government, the lack of ability by agencies to incorporate adequately
demographic materials into their work results in severe limitations in the



- 171 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 6
validity and utility of the planning process. That this ability is also
absent at the State level results in similar weaknesses in planning at the
State level.   The importance of sensitizing all levels of management to
the significance of population growth, and the need for actions across
government at federal, state and local levels if the NPP is to be
adequately implemented, highlight the importance of accurate demographic
planning.
5.       FMBP's current population activities.  Beyond encouraging
incorporation of demographic data into planning forecasts, no significant
population activities re currently being undertaken.
6.       Linkages with Niserian and international agencies with special
reference to population. Some assistance has been provided by USAID,
focused on improving management information systems.
7.       Process of preparation of subproject proposal.  The preparation of
the subproject proposal was undertaken by the Health and Population Section
of the Department of Utilities and Social Services, working with a
consultant from NISER. Visits were made to eight states, two in each
Health Zone, as well as to the six involved Federal Ministries (Health,
Education, Agriculture, Labou-, Social Development, and FMBP itself.) In
preparing the proposal, although the missing elements were readily
identified, the methodology for overcoming these constraints was not easy
to develop. For example, although training is clearly a need, the exact
format, content and follow-up was not defined. It is therefore planned
that the first stage in implementation of this subproject will be
preparation of a detailed strategy, for which financial provision has been
included in the budget.
B. Objectives and Main Strategies of the Subproiect
S.       Subproject obiective.  The objective is to integrate demographic
variables into the national and state development plans and programs, in
order to effect a more efficient distribution of resources. This would be
achieved by strengthening the capacity of planning agencies, at Federal and
State levels, to integrate population factors into the development planning
process, and to ensure that development activities fudAy support the
objectives of the National Population Policy.
9.       Relationship between subproject and national population policy/
program strategy. One of the objectives of the NPP is "to improve
demographic data collection and analysis on a regular basis and to use such
data for economic and social development planning". The strengthening of
the planning capacity at Federal and State levels to utilize the
demographic data generated will support achievement of this objective.
With special reference to the current three-year Implementation Plan for
the NPP, the activities most directly relevant to this subproject are the
followings



- 172 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 6
Ca)   5.8 -- National experts on population should be integrated into
national agencies responsible for formulating and Implementing
population and development policies, programmes, and projects.
(b)   5.8.5--Efforts shall be intensified to collect, process, analyse
and utilise health statistics for planning and programme
Implementation especially at national, state and local goverAment
levels;
(c)   5.8.6--Periodic training workshops shall be conducted in the use
of demographic data on specific aspects of population for
planners, policy makevs6, researchers and population prograum
officers; and
{d)   5.6.1 (a)--Appropriate mechanisms shall be developed for
collecting and disseminating available information to Policy
Makers, Project Officers, Researchers and the General public.
Such  information shall be summarized and presented in forms that
are appropriate and easily understood by all sections of the
population.
10.      Description of activities to be carried out under the subproiect.
The main activities comprises
(a)   Training for staff in Federal and State Ministries/Agencies in
population and social development issues.
(b) Provision of appropriate equipment, mainly micro-computers, with
technical assistance in their use.
(c)   Initiation of research studies of interrelationships between
population and development at Federal level, e.g., on
developmentleconomic policy versus social policy, and at State
levels, e.g., on demographic projections and provision of
education facilities.
(d)   Institution-building at national Institutions to equip up to four
sonal institutions (selected In consultation with other involved
Ministries such as Education Information, and Health and the
National Universities Commission) to develop the capacity in
Nigeria to provide basic training, and to take over this activity
from foreign institutions.
te)  Limited recruitment of additional staff for Federal and State
Agencies.
11.      The main components and the implementation strategy are as
followvs
(a)   The strategy is to build up the six participating Federal
Ministries, primarily in Years 1 and 2, and three ministries



- 173 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 4 of 6
(Health, Education, and Finance and Planning) within each of eight
states (two per health zone) in years 2 and 3. (A few activities
will involve all 21 states.)
(b)   Computerss  This will involve purchasing 3 x 6 computers in year 2
for the federal agencies, and 8 x 3 In year 3 for state agencies.
To enable their full use, the services of consultants will be
required.
(c)   Trainina is a priority need.  Between year 1 and 3, 16 state and
64 local government officials will undergo certificate courses.
Most of the six Federal agencies will send one person each for
local training in year 1 or 2, and the state agencies about one
person each year during the course of years 1 through 3. This
will provide each agency at the federal and state levels with one
to three locally trained staff. Each Federal agency will send one
or two persons on medium term foreign training in year 1, and the
States one person each in year 2. Each Federal agency will send
three persons to a short-term foreign training program during year
1, and each State agency one person in year 3. This will provide
each agency at the federal and state levels with one to three
persons with foreign training.
(d)   Staff.   hile every effort will be made to train eristing staff
rather than to recruit new people, noting the deficiencies
currently identified, funding is being provided to enable each
Federal agency to hire one new staff member to start work in year
1, and the States one new staff member per state, also starting in
year 3. The staffing needs will be identified by the initial
consultancy which will help spell out the overall strategy In
greater detail. These salaries would be paid from the
Government's counterpart contribution to the project.
(e)   Workshops.  At the heart of the program will be a series of
applied workshops. Having supplied the hardware, the personnel
and the training, relevant personnel from both the Federal and
State agencies will be brought together regularly to share views
on a particular topic. This could take the form of, say.
providing a consultancy on demographic factors and education
planning, and having the workshop review the results of the
investigation, and making application to their own situations.
The workshops would be held at the institutions to be strengthened
by the project, on a rotating basis.
(f)   Institution-building.  Currently only one university has been
identified as having the capacity to develop appropriate programs
In applied demography (Obafemi Awolowo University at Ife) and at
least one other institution is expected to be identified and
receive assistance.
(g) Studs Tours. Each Federal agency will send one person oan a study



- 174 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 5 of 6
tour In year 1; each state and local government will send one
person in year 2.
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation. The FMBP will undertake monitoring of
the progress of the project in each participating ministry/agency
each year. Items to be monitored include:
- Number of officers trained, at what cost, and whether
locally or overseas.
- Degree of strengthening of Obafemi Avolowo University and at
least one other identified institution in terms of staff
development, equipment and available teaching staff,
research being undertaken, and workshops successfully
organized.
- Workshops helds attendance, by level of officers;
evaluation in terms of relevance of topics, depth, delivery,
etc.
Quality of sectoral planning:  evidence of new uses of
relevant demographic data.
12.      Subproiect costs.  The overall estimated cost oi the subproject is
N20,213,000.
C. 8uboroiect Management and Coordination
13.      The implementation of this subproject will be coordinated and
supervised by the Department of Utilities and Social Services in the
Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning with direct responsibility resting
with the Deputy Director who heads the Social Services Division. Detailed
implementation responsibility will rest with the Health and Population
Section.
14.      Current and incremental staff requirement for subproiect
implementation. The Department currently has a professional staff of 23
with degrees in economLcs (background and training). The Social Studies
Division has a professional staff of 11 with 1st and 2nd degrees mostly in
economLcs (background and training). The Health and Population Section has
a professional staff of two with 1st degree in economLcs (background and
training) and some training in demography. Additional staff will be needed
to manage this subproject specifically three additional staff will be
needed with sufficient training in demography with special empbasis on
population, economics, and use of computer in demographic analysis. One
staff will be recruited each year.
15.      Main steps in subproiect implementation and timing of each.  The
main steps In implementation are as follows:
(a) Designation of Subprolect Manaaer. The formal designation of the



- 175 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 6 of 6
Subproject Manager, who will then establish reporting procedures,
job descriptions, staffing needs and accounting practices. In
particular, he/she will specify the reporting procedures with
respect to DPA.
(b)   Initial Consultancy.  The first task will be development of the
terms of reference for the consultant to design the methodology
for implementation of the subproject, and preparation of a
shortlist of candidates. The project manager will be responsible
for this.
(c) Federal Planning Departments will be alerted to the exercise, and
their support and input confirmed. State Planning Departments
will likewise be contacted, and their cooperation secured. Each
agency vill be asked to provide organigrams showing the
responsibility for planning, and to identify appropriate
candidates for training.
(d)   Universities to be involved in the project will be visited by the
consultant, together with the Subproject Manager, to ascertain
needs and how to fulfill them.
(e) Computer consultancies will be prepareds terms of reference and a
short list of consultants.
(f)   Procurement of equipment will be undertaken under agreed
guidelines.
(g)   Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Subproject Manager will establish
the monitoring and evaluation guidelines.
D. Anticipated Follow-on Requirements after Im2lementation of Subprolect
14.      Implementation of the subproject is expected to cover a three-year
period, conforming to the three-year time span proposed for all Phase I
subprojects under the National Population Project. Annual evaluation and
feedback will guide decisions on extension, expansion or termination of the
subproject, which will likely be affected by the timeliness of census data.
Source: IDA staff and Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning, May 1990.



- 176 -
Attachment tO   c  c ow
Page 1 of 4
----------------------------------------- ------
---------------------------------- a                                     -|----
I                                                                    -      --
2             3
j''I   :1                                                                            1              3
.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                 s
Öaa- ---- ------------ --                                             --------
1 1  I                                                                              3 ---- - - --- ------- --- - - - -
~~F-------~------ ---- -- -s-~~~------                                      --------
sean  a   - - - - a a a  - -  a -    n --
41              Jaaaaaaea.J
'U  4ffl I!Ajit
ig.



- 177 -
Attachment to Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 4
------------------------------------------------------
I         :on ._
1       ::1
U~~~~
I ~~~~~~~~I    3~~~~~~
1:      a       :         :
I-       --   --    --   --   --   --I-       --   --   --   -     --Ö-    -    ---    -
-------------------------Ö--- ---
i~~~~~~~~iG
|             -| z               
IJj5 s             JJ  iIsI aa3iJ  tiij!j.. iii,  II



- 178 -
Attachment to Annex 3-10
Page 3 of 4
---r------------------
: :1
i 
__---_-_--_--_______-
1                 I
1   :1 
I                         __[__
I     1$ 1  ri   i,
- -----------------a
-----------------~~~~.
-- -- --  --   --    -



-179-
* 179 -  Attachmut to An=ex 3-10
Page 4 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR INTEGRATION OF POPULATION
INTO PLANNING AND BUDGET
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF BUDGET AND PLANNING
DATE   I             ITEM              IRESPONSIBILITY
Year 2   Trained Planning officials at
Q 4       Federal and State levels.       FME&P
Year 2
Q  2      Improved Sectoral Planning  
at Federal Level.              FMB&P
Year 3
Q  2      Improved Planning at
State level.                   FMB&P
.



^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .a usa wt a-
i~~~~ar                                e..' *                              - s*eesz    as a esag                                                sass's   *sss    vu.' b'au3 i'
.................. ....                ........ .....           ....... . ........ .8........                                          . 8 ......   .......................................... . ..S .....t....S .....g.s.
*  .8w 48slw                                          ova              aSt 85             I inr  31613                      SMll"     Itl                   68 t95l3                                                          "Sol
-   ssaaas             osarga                           a~~~~~~~ote"m so,   88assat           s-usia    eoos issossagstas.s,                    sax$'&**mw*~f 038'
*          uSINS                 0  K4 s*as*                    858'               vis sa.    a-sw'"s ass';                          sU01s1    Umss                  805611                                      eauso=~ ans5l'u
............. ................. .............. .................  .................. ............. ........... ................. ............ ............ .........................................
-~~~~~C444 t U                   O'log't            -                                   10t  I         6116t1    41101 *}t                 't1tW          $,WVt            I^' VWIsm-NS3 
-                 seses,             tsst               -                  ss'sa           sab'm            8*net   9s'se1                    *16t V          0506 13    e6                                                      5 S 33 iliSSu 1 50105
*                 ssa.'s             *Iwss              *I-V  U                                st' 1s 411 *uus'ot  selaa                      eU"             toss's          st'sa                                              USM1 saKIKN  501wa
.............  .......... ......  .............. ...........   .................... ................. ........... ................. .. ......... ............ .........................................
*       *                  ~~~~~~~~~a weIs                     s-as              Sea              elms    sits                       a-u o                           em'sl                    usaawas m               Me" awssaas
*            cur-                0156)             -               Ou t               *'S65'           3618'   CiS                       0655            50                38611608316 
*            .868                -    }            -               .                  '                *3'5         **'5                 .                 ea's3333                                                               83      06   ' 5N
*  0's,    .                 -               0338'a              ~w Isis'                                          *W.             0658            683                         UIUiSUUSuuuU
*                 a-sar              c- *g's                            c -ass-    -                        *            eaa.                 aura            asc                      -Sumsmusaaai     '
Is    0,0941 v                                                      l~~~~~~~~~~aum    auium   'a
-13815             lug's                              rs                a-as              s         e sm'Is    a'asa    stas                                                                    11111 1s  10 sluas s
a ,8                                      .$119w            .               .n I               .0               *  4e                                             58                 ieS'' In                               i       1 i '  aiiis   el
..... ......  .............  .... ....... .................. ..............................................................  ..........   .............  ............  -------------...........  .................  -----
*      X        sb s-e                                                , ,  .  .  .                          .            -                    ..11' 9                                                                                "            1
*                  .1@                . -s -                                                                                18I                                                              $ m m  1-           is  386 M s   85
.... ...e .......... ..............  ............... ............ ... ........... ............. .......... ................ ............ ............ ....................................................... ..... .............................................
*   .           s~~~~ov-us'         ova                               41,0sa'9            *-,gn'          9g15'g        .                    tugss           sw's   s        aga"Ise                                        mu11111ama TM 08
*        -          'pgg             *gg                *               6133                    6           3 '8s. 1%  -s                           'S          61'11         gin                                             =M        Me t
*                  -135  -338         .                  n~g's          5585              *                                 1156 -518                       5555 t                                           al  1113811
~~~~~~~~*1                                           * J'    *                           *'9*g                .               *'              *ng'  -                *#    assuw_ 
*  .  .            cue                                 .                                  .                                                              srna~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dns   swl i an s NM  
- ~ ~ ~ ~~50 *.t                                               *sc               ages -                                                                                                                       UUIII  13833 -'1   -   0  SS     w
__............... .........._ . .......  ............  _ ... ..........  ......... .   ...........   .............. ............. .......... ........                         ........................
ass6              *414                *               .                 .                 -                                 8*85S           9e90518    551                                                          531381_  1
.....................
58il  S         8 3331531 1
68 W           618  *IbIOUW                                           518338 343   3811           I8 833 It58' 13          183         9 8Is             51,3'   1l  3
* 3-88.8. * * 1 8 1               9- - -welIl                                                                                          
SIS,SiI111 511V1 1
ossTw;us         soarm                    mlsst      SIM MONS$Xa   sXsessuss     Omsss2$r  tiswTss AUM       Mow$tts  *tst*W143M *             of"Mwa$s  $$wt#@8t    viwio 11111
_ nn*vw              it NauM           131A111            of NM lltl WItSub                  ifxS  S            $ W               $|w_l   01310101               alHl         ow    w ll"l
AIWI 38513 9161   1iS
.................................. I...............................................................
sli nu     I  nsi
~~~~~(e    .t
omr w   JR11,1V         t134               _PMmt 1141



NICERIAt NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
TymPlOn ot Collonratin Aonncies (CAQ)  Anticipated Sire ot Phase 1 Subprojects,
and Proposed Cost Sharing Percentages
Anticipated   Anticipated       Estimated   Percentage           Cost Sharing Prceontages
Type ot CA            Numbr of       Avorage           Total by    Distribution
Subpro)jcts   Subproject Cost  Type of CA  by Typo of CA    IDA          fON**   PA Itself.
Fedoral Oov*t
Agnclo  (e.g.,           4 eme        12 million          M11           SN             SXN       ISX        OX
iiinietrie.)             7 renewed    SI million        millon
Federal Parastatals
Operating on              4            S260,000
Cowmercial Besti                                        SI million      3S            86X        15x         OX
C..... NTA, FRCN)
State Oov'ta.             8             51.5              812           32X           86X         CX        IOC
mtillon        milion                                                                            -
_~~~~~~ .
LOA*.                     44           5200,000           SS            2to           SON         6S         6s
ntillon
NCO*.                     12           8100,000          *1.2           sn             6X       2.6X       2.t
mtillie.
Total/                   To              $__              mllie.o    1C0%          00.05       9.2S       4.12
Average.                                                                            (t32.9     (83.6      (51.0
_________ _________________                __  ______ ______    illilon)  millilo )   *lillIen)
s Contributed by CA *od  not parb of P'AF       ........                                                                    .0 
- l
3W
go 



- 182 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page I of 6
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Sample Guidelines for Preparation of Subproject Proposals
1.   Guidelines for Proposals from States
ObJective
A state proposal would support the implementation of the Nigerian
National Population Policy throughout a state.
Components
A state proposal should comprise all the following components to the
extent that they are not already adequately financed by other sources:
A. An Information/Education/Comunication (IEC) Component:
1.   Identification and description of the audiences/target groups to
which messages about health and family planning are to be
delivered. Some of these audiences/target groups will be
potential acceptors of family planning methods while others will
affect the environment in which potential acceptors make their
decisions. For example, women of reproductive age represent the
primary audience/target group for messages on family planning
methods; government officials represent an audience/target group
whose support of family planning is essential if service
delivery programmes are to be successful.
2.   Identification and description of the messages to be delivered
to each of the audiences/target groups to be reached during the
period covered by the proposal. These messages should be stated
in terms of desired changes in the thinking, feeling, and
actions of each audienceltarget group.
3.   Description of the overall strategy for bringing about the
desired behavioural changes in each audience. This will require
specifying the channels through which each message described
above will be delivered. For example, radio may be an effective
means of delivering a message to policy makers on the economic
benefits of lower population growth rates. On the other hand,
personal counselling at the clinic or in the home may be more
effective in delivering a message on alternative methods of
contraception to women of reproductive age. Hence the overall
strategy will include the mix of media/educational methods for
reaching each audience/target group. The following is an
example for one particular audience, women of reproductive age:



- 183 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 6
AUDIENCE                       MEDIA/EDUCATIONAL METHOD MIX
Women of Reproductive Age      Mass Media:
Men                                 Radio
Television
Newspapers
Group Methods
Workshops/Meetings
Films
Dramas
Person-to-Person Approaches:
Counselling at Clinics
Home Visits
4.   Other possible audiences:
Young Women (in and out of school)
Government Officials (state and local)
Religious Leaders
Traditional Leaders
Teachers
Leaders of Youth Groups
Leaders of Women's Groups
Defaulters
5.   Description of plans for assessing the impact of the lEC
strategy on the bahaviour of major audiences/target groups.
This will require simple KAP surveys and other evaluation
methods such as focus group interviews. Results should be
compared with base line data on conditions existing at the time
the subproject began.
B. Service Component
1.   Daily provision of secondary reproductive health care services
at all state general hospitals and in larger health facilities
run by private physicians. Secondary reproductive health care
would include surgical contraception for both men and women and
treatment of complications due to the use of contraceptives.
2.   Development of a social marketing programme for the sale of
over-the-counter or non-prescriptive contraceptives through
commercial outlets and for the distribution of contraceptives
through private health facilities. (The social marketing of
contraceptives should be provided through a special programme
and have special packaging features.)



- 184 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 6
C. Management Component
1.   Provision of assistance (financial and technical) to LGA family
planning training activities.
2.   Provision of training in family planning IEC and service
activities to medical doctors (in both public and private
sectors), to primary health care (PHC) supervisors, to state
communication specialists, to state education personnel etc.
3.   Adoption of appropriate management and health information
systems (MIS/HIS).
4.   Monthly supervision of state and LGA family planning service
delivery points by supervisory staff (e.g., PHC supervisors).
5. Regular supply of family planning commodities to state and LOA
family planning service delivery points.
6. Regularly scheduled meetings of the state population committee
to monitor population activities throughout the state.
7.   Mechanisms to ensure the adequate supply of safe and reliable
contraceptives to private and commercial outlets.
8.   Establishment of three-year programme targets in terms of:
o number of TV and radio programmes on population subjects;
o number of state seminars/workshops on population subjects;
o number and description of print and audio-visual materials
on population subjects produced and distributed;
o number of supervisory visits;
o number of family planning users or couple years of
protection to be achieved;
o  number of trained and functioning family planning
providers; and
o number of family planning service delivery points
established and functioning.
D. LGA Component
A state proposal should be combined with a proposal from at least one
of the LGAs in that state. This would normally be the LGA in which the
state capital city is located unless it already has adequate support for
its population activities from other sources.



- 185 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 6
Background Information
A state proposal should also provide, to the extent it is available,
the following informations
1.   General information on the state, including LGA boundaries,
locations of health facilities (public and private), TV and
radio coverage of the state. (Liberal use of maps might
facilitation visualisation of this information.)
2.   Basic demographic data on the state, including total population
by LGA and the number of women of reproductive age.
3.   Baseline data on family planning IEC, including a description of
current levels of knowledge, attitudes, and practices among key
audiences/target groups.
4.   Baseline data on family planning services at state and LGA
levels, including the percentage of women of reproductive age
covered by family planning services, the number of family
planning service outlets by location and type, the number of
family planning users, the number of couple years of protection
provided each year (by method and by outlet), the number of
health providers by health facility, and the number of health
providers trained in family planning.
II. Guidelines for Proposals from LGAs
Basic Condition
Any local government authority/area (LGA) that has initiated
intensified primary health care (PHC) activities under the National PEC
System would be qualified to put forward a proposal for a subproject to
strengthen the family planning component of PHC in accordance with these
guidelines.
Obiective
The fundamental objective of any subproje't being proposed by a LGA
should be to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR).
Components
Unless adequate funding is already available from another source for
certain activities, the proposed subproject should include all three of the
following components:



- 186 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 6
A. Information/education/communication tIEC) component:
- development of activities targeted at influential local groups
(e.g., in tbe form of seminars for religious leaders, workshops
for women's groups, and formal sessions for local officials)t
- development of activities targeted at school pupils (e.g.,
discussions in schools on population and family life education
topics);
development of activities targeted at potential clients (e.g.,
informal sessions for the general public, group discussions,
dramas, songs, counseling during health activities);
- development of activities targeted at actual clients (e.g.,
counseling at family planning service delivery points).
B. Family planning (PP) service componentt
- daily provision ot condoms, spermicides, pills at all LGA health
facilities;
- in addition, daily provision of injectables and IUDs in at least
ten LGA health facilities;
- daily provision of condoms, spermicides, pills, chloroquine,
vermifuges, and anti-cough drugs in the community through
community-based distribution (CBD) agents.
C. Management and support components
- provision of training in family planning IEC and service
activities to all health personnel (basic training if needed
plus refresher courses every two years);
- adoption of appropriate management and health information
systems;
- establishment of a referral system between the CBD agents and
the LGA facilities (e.g., for IUDs and injectables);
- establishment of annual program targets in terms of:
- number of people to be reached through IEC programs;
- number of PP seminars;
- number of visits to communities;
- number of PP users or couple years of protection;
- number of PP providers;



- 187 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 6
- number of PP delivery points.
Further Reauirements
In addition to the basic condition stated above, to be qualified, an
LGA would also have to show that the state in which it is located can
provide it with the following supportive servicest
- monthly (or at least periodic) supervision visits by state PHC
supervisors, all of whom should have adequate training in FP as
well as in all the other elements of PHC;
- regular supply of FP commodities by state PHC supervisors;
- provision of secondary reproductive health care service at the
state level for referral of complications;
- establishment of a referral system between LOA facilities and
*state* general hospitals (e.g., for surgical contraception).
Background Information
A complete LGA proposal should also provide selected background
information as follows:
- general information on the LGA such as the location of
districts, villages, etc.; location of schools, health
facilities (public and private), and markets; and the road
tetwork (use of maps would facilitate visualization of this
information);
- basic demographic data for the LGA as a whole, as well as
population figures for districts or individual villages if
available;
- any available base-line data on family planning IEC activities
at the LGA or community level, including description of current
levels of knowledge, attitudes, and practices re health and FP
for main target audiences;
- any available base-line data on PP services at LGA or community
level, including estimates of the percentage of women of
reproductive ages covered by FP services, the number of existing
FP service outlets by type, the number of FP acceptors and
continuing users, the number of couple years of protection
provided, the number of health providers by site, and the umber
of these already trained in family planning service delivlry.
Sources Prepared by IDA staff, March 1989.



- 188 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page I of 2
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Description of Two-Phase Subproiect Appraisal Process
Evaluation of subprojects could be carried out in two steps:
Initial Selection and Appraisal. 'Initial Selection' would entail making a
tentative decision about a subproject based on a preliminary review of a
brief statement about it. 'Appraisal* would entail a careful analysis of a
detailed implementation programme for each subproject initially selected.
Adoption of such a two-stage approach would have the advantage of avoiding
detailed development of proposals that may not be suitable for financing or
that may need to be substantially revised in terms of scope and components.
Subprolecc Brief
A *Subproject Brief' would provide the basis on which the
initial selection is made. The Brief would outline the subproject to be
undertaken and provide sufficient information to permit a preliminary
analysis of the merits and feasibility of its implementation. Its contents
would be succinct, and the costs and other data quoted would normally be
based on preliminary calculations. The Subproject Brief might include the
followings
(1) Description of the agency submitting the proposal and other
considerations to allow sufficient understanding of its
managerial and financial capabilities;
(2) Main features of the proposed subproject, including its
objectives, scope, beneficiaries, location, and content, as well
as its expected contributions to the National Population
Programme;
(3) Types of items to be financed under the subproject, including
equipment, materials, rehabilitation or, in exceptional cases,
new construction, and contracting of specialised services with a
clear justification for the inclusion of each in the programme;
(4) Preliminary estimates of total costs and period of
implementation; and
(5) Related financing available from the agency's own budget and
other sources.
On the basis of the Subproject Brief, a decision would be made
whether an inspection visit is needed and whether any special information
would need to be included in the detailed proposal to permit judgement on
the merits of the proposal.



- 189 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
Detailed Proposal
If the results of the initial selection process described above
are positive, a more comprehensive proposal would need to be prepared on
the basis of which the proposal would be appraised. This document,
together with the original Subproject Brief, would form the basis on which
the final decision for financing would be made. It might consist of the
followings
(1) Further details on the agency, highlighting in particular the
specific organisational arrangements needed to implement the
proposed subproject;
(2) Detailed description and justification of each component;
(3) Proposed schedule of implementation, including an estimation of
the resources needed at various stages;
(4) Detailed cost estimates for the proposed subproject, including
assumptions used and projected monthly (quarterly?) funding
requirements during the implementation period; and
(5) Proposed financing programme, including a disbursement schedule
for the financing requested from the National Population Fund.
The Appraisal Report on a proposal would normally consist of 2-4
pages highlighting the salient features and making a recommendation for its
approval per the terms requested or with certain modifications. The
recommended modifications might involve the amount, disbursement schedule,
special obligations of the implementing agency, counterpart funding, or
other matters.
At an appropriate point during the evaluation process, perhaps
even before a detailed proposal is prepared, other funding agencies would
need to be given an opportunity to express an interest in funding the
proposal.
Once a proposal is approved, it would be necessary to enter into
a legal agreement with the implementing agency establishing the obligations
of both parties.
Sources Prepared by IDA staff, March 1989.



NIEIA, NATIONAL POPULATI  PROJECT
Protect Time frao
Ph..                1991 (Yr.1)    109  (Yr.*)    ,998 (Yr.J)    1994 (Yr.4)    1996 (Yr.J)       1996 (Yr.6)    199? (Yr.7)      1999 (Yr.e)
Ph... I
Subproj                    . 
Subprojetst
.v.lep.d In Yr.1 
.loe.  Is Yr.a                                                                                 >
hv legd ts  .r .
Beveleped in Yr.4
of Efetive                                                                                                   Completion
maxima    apeck                                                                  Afeer l__      so,   _   _,      _
A.winsd *ate ∞ J   ' | tN        "8lwttoS4¢closely to                                                            Proje
ensre only O        tt                               Closeti
sne (1 e5.                                       (30b (a Ieb
J19 10, )9  *r                                       l9)
(Mid-Isa)          maSfunred  closly t
a   2
to  3
K



- 191 -
Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 3
A. OPERATION OF PAF
Han. Winister of Health
NCGPD
i  _                Hon~~~M. AMinsiw of Heami
FMOH  _       PAF Management Ctes -   - - - - - - - 
5                 ~~~~~~Appmvl at LJuger Project
-  |   :.Suprocts. Pesonnel
o  _   _  I _    _   I        . ~~Joint Apprisa a                i
Recommendalon of
Larger Subprojocts 
OPA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PP
OPA , ~.......l.               .   *.. . .
* Joint Approval of
Smaler Subprojects
PROPOSALS 
I                                              H ]!~~~~~~~
Joint Mnitorng and Evaluadon by OPA & PAPA
SUBPROJECTS



- 192 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 3
17           .
U.
0.
'U
idI
0~~~~~~~~~r



C. STRUCTURE OF DPA
*~* Plcw"I                     I
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
SW   ;WUCO~ -                                              I A- - -
_ _ _ _,,q,,, l.   '--r--
X I , r | ~~~~~~~....                          ....      ...........      
SECTION  Plaiw               w                                       loTr                                    WE cene MI   Aserh:I-  Mgl
. 4 .T n.                              IEC          ER            .          ER        P&M
01-2         312        (31L12                     01.12                                            011l2w-
049L                    043L4                      01OB9                     03L-09                 014.09
X ovf                                                                                Ns    RNC
Sl
z   E__PS                J     001* OwPoiW6U ZbeUIbud
ftgPb.UusbrFV*d             GL-0e,mauV laMS.
CL-0~_



- 194 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page i of 4
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Basic Steps and Responsibilities in PAP
SubproJect Processing
A. Overall Organizational Framework
To facilitate the execution of the National Population Programme, a
Population Activities Fund is being proposed (PAF).
It is envisaged that the PAP Agency (PAPA) would be established as a
small sized parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Health, i.e., a separate
legal entity from the Department of Population Activities (DPA), but it
would maintain strong collaborative linkages with DPA.
Functions:
PAP would be charged with the following responsibilities:
- to mobilize resources for the National Population
Programme.
- to maintain liaison with both local and international donor
agencies and in collaboration with DPA to coordinate that support.
- to disburse funds to population implementing agencies for approved
population related activities.
- to monitor jointly with DPA the use of PAP resources
by implementing agencies.
- to approve jointly with DPA subprojects of US$100,000 or less for
funding.
- to serve as the secretariat to the PAP Management Committee
(PAFMC).
Structures (Also see organigram in Annex 4-4)
PAP will be governed by a sub-commlttee of National Consultative Group
on Population for Development (NCGPD), which will be called the PAP
Management Committee (PAEMC). PAFMC will be chaired by the Bon. Minister
of Health, who is also the chairman of NCGPD. PAFMC would deal with all
matters relating to PAP and would also serve as the final body for the
review, approval and recommendation of sub-projects for PAP Funding on
behalf of NCGPD.
PAPA would serve as the secretariat to PAPHC and would be headed by a
full-time manager supported by a relatively small number of finance,
programme, and administrative staff. Both the PAPA Manager and the DPA



- 195 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 4
Director should be members of PAPHC.
Four units are suggested for PAFA. The details are still to be worked
out.
DPA and PAFA
Since DPA is the entry point for all proposals, PAFA and DPA must have
collaborative activities in this regard, i.e., assistance with the
development of proposals and sifting, appraisal, and monitoring of
subprojects.
it is suggested therefore, that DPA would form an internal Project
Committee for this purpose, in which PAFA would be represented.
The Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (MER) Branch of DPA would be
responsible for processing subprojects. Its Depuity Director, when
appointed, would be the Chairman of the Project Committee and the main
liaison officer with PAFA. Other members of the Committee should be the
sectional chiefs of Population and Development, Services, and IEC Branches.
All subprojects approved by this Committee would be presented to PAFPC for
further review and approval for funding. However, the Project Committee is
empowered to approve sub-projects costing $100,000 and under without
referral to PAFMC. This is to facilitate quicker consideration of smaller
subprojects.
B. Subproject Processing
1.    Subproiect Canvassing/Solicitation
DPA has the main responsibility to solicit for proposals and the
following steps would be necessary:
(i) Development of the PAF operational manual.
(ii) Since PAF will be new, there would be the need to publicize
it through launching workshops.
(iii) Subproject guidelines should be developed.
(iv) Brochures containing relevant information about PAP and
procedures for funding population related activities should
be distributed to State and LGA levels, NGOs, and
universities.
(v) Encourage multiplier effect through the Population Working
Group (PWG) and implementing agencies.
(vi) Advertisement in mass media.
(vii) Zonal workshops.



- 196 -
ANNEX 4-S
Page 3 of 4
(viii) Encouraging counterpart funding.
2.    Subproject Development/Preparation
(i) Strengthening the MER Branch with adequate staff.
(ii) Development of guidelines for project preparation.
(Mii) Utilization of short term consultants.
(iv) In-house training of staff to equip them with
technical skills.
(v) Providing technical competence to agencies requesting
such.
(vi) Zonal Workshops/Seminars.
(vii) Approval of small grants for project
planning/preparation.
(viii) Fostering of collaborative efforts between states
and LGAs in technical back-up.
3.    Subprolect Screening/Appraisal/AProval
(i) Hold regular Project Committee meetings.
(ii) Continuous in-house staff training.
(iii) Use of short-term consultants.
(iv) Contracting out to outside agencies when competence is
lacking and/or a large number of proposals is available
for screening and Project Committee is unable to cope.
(v) Offering technical assistance for project proposal
modification.
(vi) Prompt notification of status of funding request.
(vii) Proposals from LGAs will be accorded priority.
(viii) Small grant approvals by DPA's Project Committee.
4.    Subproiect Execution
(a)   Agreements
(i) PAPA manager is responsible for preparing agreements. which



- 197 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 4 of 4
should cover the legal basis for subventions to the grant
recipients.
(ii) PAFA manager will sign on behalf of PAFMC.
(b)   Disbursements
(i) Memo to the Council of Ministers to authorize 101 advance
payment for approved project proposals.
(ii) Appointment of four additional key PAFA officials, namely.
Chief Finance Officer, Chief Programme Officer, Chief
Administrative Officer, and the Internal Auditor.
(iii) Appointment of the Deputy Director and an Assistant Director
in MER Branch (for PAF activities) and three section chiefs.
(iv) Indication of counterpart funding as reflected in separate
line items for population activities in their budgets.
(v) Work plans of implementing age -Les.
(vi) Subsequent release will be based on adequate Finarcial
and Programme Implementation Reports.
(c)   Financial and Technical Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) Joint monitoring activities by DPA and PAFA.
(ii) Field visits.
(iii) Assessment of project progress.
(iv) Using indicators developeJ to evaluate achievement of
project objectives.
(d)   Reporting
(i) Annual financial and programme progress reports for
each sub-project.
(ii) Suspension of disbursement when reports are not
submitted.
(iii) Submission of project completion reports.
(iv) All grants are to be audited annually.
Source: Prepared by DPA officials during Technical Discussions at World
Bank, October 1990.



- 198 -
Annex 4-6
Page 1 of I
NIGERIAs NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
.__________*_______ -__   eecf_ _   fe...-
-------------   -----------f----- ----------------------- afn._ ._. _ ------ ---- ----
IProjected Dicbursements I
Bank Fiscal       | (in USS millions)        I    Proportion Disbursed
Year and           ------------------------- I----------------------------------
Semester          ISemester   I Cumulative  I Estimate for I   Nigeria
I           I             I This Project I   Profile
------------------------! -----------------------,- I   -----------------
1992 1st           I    0       !   0         I    4?        I        or
2nd          1   3.1         3.5        I    S2        I        1.
1993  1st          j   3.2    I  6.7          j    9?        I        32
2nd          j   3.9    I 10.6          I   142        I        8?
1994  1st               3.9    I 14.5         I   18?        I       162
2nd          !   4.8        19.3        I   23Z 2              24?
1995  1st               7.9        27.2       I   35?                34?
2nd          I   7.9    I 35.1          I   45?        1       442
___________ _---------- ---  - -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -  -- -----__ _ - _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ -__ _ _--- --   ___---- --------
1996  1st          I   7.0    I 42.1          I   546                53?
2nd          I   7.0    I 49.1          j   63?        j       622
1997  1st               6.2    I 55.3              l 70? x           70?
2nd          f   5.5    1 60.8          1   77X        |       77?
1998  1st          I   7.9    I 68.7          I   88?        I        87?
2nd          |   4.7    I 73.4          I   ;4Z        I       93Z
1999  1st               5 5.1    1 78.5         i 0OO?       I       97Z
2nd          I   _            - _                      j      100?
Assumes credit effectiveness in July 1991.
Estimated date of project completion: 30 June 1998.
Estimated date of project closingt 31 December 1998.



- 199 -
ANNEX 6-.
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIAt NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
Asreed1 Supervision Plan
1.          Bank supervision input into key activities.  The proposed staff
and consultant inputs from the Bank with regard to specific missions are
spelled out in the attached table. These inputs during missions range from
12 to 28 staff-weeks per year--the high figure being required for the year
in which the Mid-Term Review occurs. In addition, day-to-day supervision
inputs will be required for the review and discussion of appraisal reports
for Phase II subprojects to be financed out of the Population Activities
Fund (PAF)2, of proposed research grants from the Population Research Fund
(PRP)$, of progress and audit reports, and of procurement activities; for
preparation of correspondence; etc. It is estimated that such desk
reviews, discussions, and related routine activities will require in the
case of this project about twelve additional staff-weeks per year during
the first four to five years' of implementation and then about eight
additional staff-weeks per year thereafter. (It should be noted that a
relatively large portion of the technical aspects of this input will be
made by a Senior Population Specialist assigned to the Bank's Resident
Mission in Lagos.) In sum, total Bank inputs required for the effective
supervision of this project will run substantially above regional norms'.
2.          The Borrower's anticipated contributions to proiect
supervision. As a result of the special nature of this project, the
primary responsibility for the supervision of subproject implementation
rests with the PAF Agency (PAFA) and FMOH's Department of Population
Activities (DPA) in the case of the subprojects financed out of PAF and
'As discussed and agreed during technical discussious among
representatives of the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOU), the Nigerian
Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER), and the World Bank at
the conclusion of negotiations on 7 December 1990.
'Essentially all those subprojects for which the estimated total cost
is equivalent to US$500,000 or more.
'Basically all proposed awards of research grantslcontracts estimated
to cost US$25,000 equivalent. or more.
'This distinction between heavie: and lighter work loads is based,
among other things, on the fact that the number of new subprojects to be
approved will necessarily decline as one approaches the end of the project.
especially from mld-1995 onwards.
'Estimated totals, by fiscal year, are as follows: FY9l: 14 SVs;
FY92: 34 SWs (including a launch workshop); FY93: 30 SWs; FY94s 38 SWs
(including the major Mid-Term Review); FY95: 30 SWs; and FY96 onwards: 20
SWs per year.



- 200 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 6
with NISER in the case of research activities financed out of PRP. The
resources required for such supervision activities--salaries for
incremental staff, office furniture and equipment, vehicles, travel and per
diem costs, office supplies and other materials, coumunication and
utilities charges, etc.--are being financed under the project.
3.          In addition, it is anticipated that the Federal Government will
make the following specific contributions to overall project supervisions
(a)   Organization of a Proiect Launch Workshop.  The Federal
Ministry of Health, as the host agency for PAP, is expected to
organize a Project Launch Workshop for about four days during
the fourth quarter of CY9l, by which time a permanent PAFA Read
and other key staff will have been named. This workshop will
orient staff of PAPA, DPA, NISER, and the main collabprating
agencies (CAs) to the overall project and basic IDA procedures
associated with disbursement, procurement, and project
reporting.
(b)   Preparation of annual work proarams and auticipated
disbursements. By 30 September of each year, work programs are
to be prepared for the subsequent year by PAVAIDPA in the case
of PAP and by NISER in the case of PRF. These work plans
shiould be based on, among other things, the plans of the
individual CAs implementing specific subprojects and the
annually updated three-year rolling plans for the National
Population Programme. In addition to these work programs, PAPA
and MISER are to prepare projections of the financial
requirements (budgets) for the upcoming year, which, among
other things, will provide the basis for estimating the
subsequent year's counterpart funding requirements.
(c) Preparation of annual reports. Similarly, PAEAIDPA and NISER
are to prepare annual narrative and financial reports on the
outcomes of their parts of the project during the previous
year.
(d)   Organization of Annual Consultative Meetings.  In each year of
the project after that in which the Project Launch Workshop is
to take place, PAPA and DPA are expected to organize a
consultative meeting to, among other things, review the
previous year's annual reports for the project. In addition to
key staff from PAPA and DPA, this meeting will involve staff
from NISER, from all of the main CAs, and from other interested
funding agencies. These annual meetings will examine, among
other things, the reports from the previous year and the draft
work plans for the following year.
(e)   Organization of a Mid-Term 1eview.  Sometime before 30 June
1994, PAPA and DPA are to organize, in consultation with IDA



- 201 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 6
and other involved donors, if any, a formal Mid-Torm Review of
the project, PAP, and the overall National Population
Programme. The main purposes of this joint review will be to
ensure that the project is making the maximally appropriate and
effective contributions to the overall national program and to
determine what mid-term adjustments might be required in
project design, such as in procedures for the management and
operation of PAP.
(f)   Responsibility for overall coordination with visitins IA
missions. Basic responsibility for coordination with and
making arrangements for visiting IDA missions will be with the
Head of PAPA and his/her staff. Meetings between IDA and CAs
and field visits by members of visiting IDA missions will
normally be undertaken with appropriate staff from PAPA and DPA
participating. Initial briefing meetings for visiting IDA
missions would normally be chaired by the Head of PAPA; wrap-up
meetings, by the Eon. Minister of Health in his capacity as
chairman of the PAF Management Committee. The NISER officer
with overall responsibility for PRF would normally participate
in these meetings, although IDA missions would usually also
visit NISER headquarters in Ibadan.



- 202 -
ANN=   6-1
Page 4 of 6
NIGERIA: NATIONAL POPULATION PROJECT
ODetaled IDA Supervlsion Znout Into K., Activiti-e
Approxinate Dates        Activity                 Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                      Requlremente             (Staff-Waek.)
Fiscal Year 1991
5-6/91                  Supervision              Task Manager             6.0
Milsson #1              FP Specialist
Econ/Pop Re Spec
PS Managment
Specililst
Fiscal Year 1992
7/91 - 6/92             Periodic                 FP Speciallst            4.0
Consultations              (Rsident)
10-11/91                Supervision              Task Manager             11.0
Milston #2/              FP SpoedalTt
Launeh Workshop          Econ/Pop Re Spec
Proeurment Spec
Disbursemnt Spec
PS Management
Specialist
12/91                   Review of                Procuremnt Spec          2.0
stondarditzd
procuremnt
document. for use
of CA.
8/92                    Superviston              Task Manager             9.0
Mission p                fP Specialist
Pop M+E Spec
Pop Policy Spec
Fiscal -ear I99U
7/92 - 6/98             Periodic                 FP Specialilt            4.0
Consultations              (Resident)
10/92                   Superviseon              Task Manager             9.0
Mission 4                fP Specialist
DEC Speciallt
PS Manaoment
Specialist
8/93                    Supervision              Took Mana"gr             0.0
Mission #p               FP Specialist
Econ/Pop no Sp"e
Pop Policy Spec
Fiscal Y er 1994
7/98 - 6/94             Periodic                 fP Specialist            4.0



- 203 -
ANIEX 6-1
Page 5 of 6
Consultations              (Resident)
10/93                   Suporvision              Tosk Manasor 8r0
Mitsson  6               fP Spe lelTst
Econ/Pop Re Spec
3-4/94                  Mi4-Term Revt-w/         Tosk Manager             20.0
Supervision              FP Specialist
Mission p7               Econ/Pop Re Spec
Pop Policy Spec
IEC Specialist
Pop Ed Speciallst
PS Management
Sp eallst
Fiscal Year 100
7/94 - 6/96             periodic                 FP Specialist            4.0
Consultations              (Resident)
10/94                   Supervision              Task Manager             9.0
mission #p               FP Specialist
ZEC Specialist
PS Maagmet
specialist
3/95                    Supervision              Taok Manage,              0.0
Mission p9               FP Specialist
Econ/Pop Re Spec
Pop Policy Spec
Fiscal Year 1096
7/95 - 6/96             Periodic                 FP Specitlist            4.0
Consultations              (Resident)
10/96                   Supervision              Task Vanager             6.0
mission 910              FP Specilitot
PS Management
Speil cllts
8/96                    Supervision              Task Manager             6.0
Mission #11              FP Specialist
Econ/Pop Re Spec
Fiscal Year 1901
7/96 - 6/97             Periodic                 FP Specialist            4.0
Consultations              (Resient)
10/96                   Supervision              Task Manaer              6.0
mission 912              FP Specialist
PS Management
Sp<ecilist
3/97                    Supervision              Task Manager             6.0
mission 913              FP Specialiet
Econ/Pop Re Spec
Fiscal Year 1996
7/97 - 6/98             Periodli                 FP Spectilist            4.0
Consultations              (Resident)



- 204 -
AMNNEX 6-1
Pase 6 of 6
10/97                  Supervision              Taok Manager             0.0
Miasson p14              fP Specalist
PS Mana----n-
Special .st
3/98                   Supervision              Task Usnag.o             6.0
Mission 936              FP Speciallet
EGon/Pop RN Spec
Flscal Year i999
a/99                   Project                   Task Manae              16.0
Completion               FP SpecalaIat
Mission                  loon/Pop No Spec
Pop U£ SP"e
IC Specialist
Pop Ed Spec
Pop Polly Spec
Prouet S
Speial eto



- 205 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF N%GERTA
NAT%ONAL POPULATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TIE PROJECT FILE
Ref.                                                                Document
No.                                                                 Code
A. General Reports and Studies on Population and Related Matters
Al.  Federal Ministry of Health, Department of Population         049095
Activities, National Policy on Population for Develop-
ment, Unit, Progress and Self-Reliances Plan for Im-
plementation, December 1989.
A2.   Federal Republic of Nigeria, National Policy on Popula-    049096
tion for Development, Unity, Progress and Self-Reliance,
1988.
AS.  The Futures Group with the Federal Ministry of Health        049097
and the National Population Bureau, The Effects of Popu-
lation Factors on Social and Economic Development, April
1985.
A4.   Kanagaratnam, K., Report and Recommendations of a Tech-    D49098
nical Assistance Missions A Series of Papers on the De-
partment of Population Activities--Organization and Man-
agement Structure, Job Descriptions, Staff Recruitment,
Staff Development, 16 December 1988.
A5.  Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research: In-    D49099
formation Brochure, 1990.
A6    Ransome-Kuti, Professor Olikoye (Minister of Health),        D49100
Address Delivered at the Inagural Ceremoy of the Na-
tional Consultative Group on Population for Development
(NCGPD) at Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos,
on Friday, 6th April, 1990.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Prolect PreRared by Government Staff
and Consultants
DI.  African Health Consultancy Services, Report of the Adma-  D49101
istrative Support to the DPA, Department of Population
Activities, Federal Ministry of Health, October 1989.
B2.  African Health Consultancy Services, Proposal for the         D49102
Establisbment of Secandary ReproductLve Health Care and
Research Centres in Four Federal University Teaching
Hospitals in Nigeria, July 1989.



- 206 -
53.  African Health Consultaucy Services, Proposal for  _.        049103
Strengtheaing the Capacity of Planning AgencSis to mte-
grate Population Factors into the Development Planning
Process in Nigeria, July 1989.
34.  AkintOla. J. K., Report of Project Sub-Component %I%%        049104
Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Promote Family
Planning through. Health Education.
BS.  Amhurst Management Consultants and Nigeria Business Con-  049105
sultancy Services (NZBSCONS), Report of Component to Ex
pand and Strengthen the Provision of Integrated Family
Planning through Maternal and Chld Health Services
within the Primary Health Care System at the Local Gom.
ernment Level by the Family Health Division, Departmat
of Primary Health Care, federal Ministry of Health, May
1989.
s6.  (Federal Kinistry of Health], Views of the Federal Kin-    049106
istry of Health on the Principles for Organisation aad
Operation of the Population Activities Fund (PAF),
(September 19901.
57.   EFederal Ministry of Health, Department of Population        049107
Activities], Basic Steps and Responsibilities in PAP
Subproject Processing, [October 1990].
B8.   Federal Ministry of Health, Department of Population         049108
Activities, Development Strategy for Improving Skill
and Competdnces for DPA Staff, August 1990.
39.   Federal Ministry of Health, Department of Population         D49109
Activities, Role and functions of DPA in the Management
of the National Population Policy Programs. (September
1990].
B10.  Opubor, Alfred E., Development and Management Consult-        049110
ants, Sub-contract 4t Strengthening the federal Ministry
of Information in Building Consensus and Awareness for
the Populatior Prograue.
311.  National Population Commission, Project Agreement be.         049111
tween the Govercmmnt Nigerian Esicl and the World Bank:
Pilot Sentinel Survey, August 1989.
512.  Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council,        049112
Project Proposal for Strengthening the Comprehensive
Population Education Programe for Nigeria (1990-92)
within the frame Work of National Population Policy for
Nigeria (Submitted to Department of Population Activi-
ties, federal Ministry of Health for World Bank Fund-
ing), June 1989.
B13. Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, MKn-    049113



- 207 -
ocrandum from Prof. Pauti:na Maki3wa-Adebusoys tO Dr.
David Rade. on Nigeria's Approaches to Fertility Reduc-
tion:  Resear-o. F-d., 8 February 1990. with a:tac.h_ents
on a proposed a-.r.ual budget. the proposed organizational
char:, and the expected contractual. ar:angement with
Dl4.  Tdo-Aca. TU., Repaor: or. ta.. M.odaletes for Manag-g the    D49114
PPopu'3&__0r. Actt-v';;es F.   ?a.June 199C0.
B35.  Wickha-.. Robert S.. Reco^ended Principles for Organi-    D49115
tation a-d Operatior. of the Population Activities Fund,
M.ay 1990.
C. Selected Vorkingt P3-ers and Cther .ate:ials Preca:ed bl Bank Staff and
Consul:tn.:s
Cl.   Cochraae, Susa-., et al.. Nigeria's Population Strategy:   D49116
Issues and Sugges:tar.s, 1 Mar:h 2L989.
CZ.             Lina, CZe:aiiled ProJec: Cost Est!=:es--Compu-   D49117
tee  p_,^t  1, tty 1990.
C3.   Heppell, H._chael, Reviev of the Structu:e, Staffing. and  D49118
Orzanisationa: Development Plans of the Depart=ent of
Population Ac:ti-4:ies, EFebruary 19901.
CA.   Stever.s, Patience, CPopulation Projections and Targets--  D49119
Computer Pr:itoutsl. April 1990.
D. Join: Priducts of Gove_-._et Officials and Bank Staff
Di.  Draft Te=s of Reference for th-e Head of the Population   D49120
Activi:tles Agetcy (PAlS), (December 19901.
DZ.   Federal Ministry of Health/World Bank Appraisal kI-Ission.  D49121
Reports on Appraisal Workshops vith Zone A, B, C, and D
States. August 1989.
D3.   Joint Government of Nigeria-World Bank Technical Dis-          D49122
cussions:  9-IZ October 1990, World Bank Beadquarters.
Washington DC: Agreed Minutes, October 12, 1990.
D4.   Terms of Reference for a Consultant to Prepare a Manual   D49123
for Hanagement and Operation of the Population Activi-
ties Fund (PAE), December 7. 1990.
DS.   Terms of Reference for a Consultant to Prepare a Work           D49124
PLan for the First Year and Guidelines fo Mbanagement
and Operation o' the Population Research Fund (PIF),
(December 1990C.



