Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4690-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Recife Urban Upgrading Project -
 PROMETRÓPOLE) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
 
Dated July 23, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4690-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF 
PERNAMBUCO (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement (the Loan); 
(C) 
certain components of the Project will be carried out by the Municipality 
of Recife (Recife) or the Municipality of Olinda (Olinda), which, by agreements of even 
date herewith between the Bank and each such Municipality (the Recife Project 
Agreement and the Olinda Project Agreement, respectively), have agreed to carry out 
such Project components and to undertake the other obligations set forth in those 
agreements;  
(D) 
certain components of the Project will be carried out by 
CONDEPE/FIDEM (as hereinafter defined) and COMPESA (as hereinafter defined), for 
the execution of which components the Borrower shall enter into agreements with 
CONDEPE/FIDEM and COMPESA as set forth in Article III of this Loan Agreement; 
and   
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
2
-
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beberibe River Basin” means the area in the RMR which surrounds the 
Beberibe River; 
(b) “COMPESA” 
means 
Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento
,
the 
Borrower’s water supply and sanitation company, or a successor thereto satisfactory to 
the Bank; 
(c) 
“COMPESA Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(d) “CONDEPE/FIDEM” 
means 
Agência Estadual de Planejamento e 
Pesquisa de Pernambuco
-
CONDEPE/FIDEM, the Borrower’s planning and research 
agency (
autarquia
), created pursuant to Article 59 of the Borrower’s 
Lei Complementar
 
No. 49, of January 31, 2003; 
(e) 
“CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“EMP” means the environmental mitigation plan referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“FMR” means financial monitoring report as referred to in Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;  
(h) 
“Municipalities” means Recife and Olinda; 
Page  4
3
-
-
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 (c) 
of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Pilot Subprojects” means the Subprojects to be carried out in UEs 17 
(O) and 23 (R) under Part C of the Project; 
(k) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the document, issued by the Borrower 
on October 15, 2001, which contains the principles and policies that shall apply to the 
preparation and carrying out of any action plan for the resettlement of population that 
may be required under any Subproject; 
(l) 
“RMR” means Região Metropolitana do Recife, the metropolitan region 
in the territory of the Borrower comprised of the following municipalities: Recife, 
Olinda, Ipojuca, Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Moreno, Jaboatão dos Guararapes, São 
Lourenço da Mata, Camaragibe, Paulista, Abreu e Lima, Araçoiaba, Igarassu, Itapissuma, 
and Itamaracá;  
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(n) 
“Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Parts A and C of 
the Project; 
(o) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 
(p) “UE” 
means 
unidade de esgoto
,
a
drainage unit in the Beberibe River 
Basin which is identified in the Borrower’s 
Estudo de Consolidação e Complementação 
de Diagnóstico Sobre a Qualidade das Águas, Relativo à Preparação do Programa de 
Investimentos nas Bacias dos Rios Beberibe, Jaboatão e Ipojuca (PQA/PE)
.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty six million 
Dollars ($46,000,000). 
Page  5
4
-
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
T
he Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, the Guarantor and the 
Municipalities of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
5
-
-
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  7
6
-
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
(a) 
cause (i) CONDEPE/FIDEM to carry out Part A of the Project, the Pilot 
Subprojects, and the activities under the Borrower’s responsibility in Parts D and E of the 
Project (i.e. the activities under such Parts D and E not assigned to Olinda and Recife 
pursuant to Section 2.01 of the Olinda Project Agreement and the Recife Project 
Agreement), and (ii) COMPESA to carry out Part B of the Project, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, and urbanization practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and 
(b) 
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, cause Recife and Olinda to perform all their respective obligations set forth in 
the Recife Project Agreement and the Olinda Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Municipalities to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying 
out of the Project as provided in this Agreement, the Recife Project Agreement and the 
Olinda Project Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services  required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained procurement records 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound procurement 
practices (including related supervision, review and 
auditing) the procurement activities carried out by 
CONDEPE/FIDEM, the Municipalities and COMPESA; 
and 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all such procurement records evidencing such 
procurement activities are retained until at least two (2) 
years after the Closing Date. 
Page  8
7
-
-
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to: 
 
(i) 
have such procurement records audited annually, in accordance 
with internationally accepted procurement standards consistently 
applied, by independent procurement experts acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than June 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, a report on the audit referred to in paragraph (i) 
above, including an account on the compliance by 
CONDEPE/FIDEM, COMPESA and the Municipalities 
during the calendar year preceding the issuance of such 
report, with the procurement procedures set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement; and 
 
(iii) 
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Bank 
such other information concerning said audit, as the Bank may 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Recife and Olinda, 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Recife Project Agreement or the Olinda Project 
Agreement, as the case may be, with respect to their respective activities under the 
Project. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to employ, as 
provided in Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a consulting firm to assist 
CONDEPE/FIDEM, during the execution of the Project, in the management, 
coordination and implementation of the Project. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, under agreements satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Subsidiary Agreements), make available, promptly as needed on a grant basis, to 
Recife and Olinda, as the case may be, the proceeds of the Loan and the counterpart 
funds required on the part of the Borrower which are allocated from time to time to 
finance the components of the Project under the respective responsibility of the 
Municipalities. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under each Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank 
Page  9
8
-
-
and the Borrower and to achieve the objective of the Project, and shall not, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, assign, amend or fail to enforce any such Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. (a) (i) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with COMPESA 
(the COMPESA Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
execution of Part B of the Project. 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the COMPESA Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to 
achieve the objective of the Project, and shall not, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, assign, amend or fail to enforce the 
COMPESA Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(b)  
(i) 
The Borrower shall cause COMPESA to carry out 
technical studies, satisfactory to the Bank, for the feasibility of 
the activities under Part B.3 of the Project and technical and 
legal studies, satisfactory to the Bank, providing alternative 
options for the efficient operation and management of water and 
sanitation services in the UEs. 
 
(ii) 
After COMPESA has carried out the technical and legal 
studies referred under Section 3.06 (b)(i) above, and in the event 
the Borrower and the Bank agree on an alternative option for the 
efficient operation and management of water and sanitation 
services in the UEs, the Borrower shall cause COMPESA to 
enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of said alternative option.  After said 
arrangements have been carried out, the Borrower shall cause 
COMPESA not to, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
assign, amend, repeal, waive, or modify in any way said 
arrangements.  
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with 
CONDEPE/FIDEM (the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the general coordination of the Project and the execution of 
Part A of the Project, the Pilot Subprojects, and the activities under the Borrower’s 
responsibility in Parts D and E of the Project (i.e. the activities under such Parts D and E 
not assigned to Olinda and Recife pursuant to Section 2.01 of the Olinda Project 
Agreement and the Recife Project Agreement). 
Page  10
9
-
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Bank and the Borrower and to achieve the objective of the Project, and shall not, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, assign, amend or fail to enforce the 
CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out, as applicable, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, the EMP, the action plans, 
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank on October 15, 2001, for resettlement of the 
population affected by the Pilot Subprojects, the environmental management plans, dated 
May 5, 2001, for the Pilot Subprojects, and any other population resettlement action plan 
and environmental management plan that may be approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 
3.09 of this Agreement. In case of any conflict between the provisions of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the Recife Project Agreement or the Olinda Project 
Agreement, the terms of said Agreements shall prevail. 
Section 3.09. Prior to initiating any bidding procedure for works under any 
Subproject under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: 
(a) 
a plan, acceptable to the Bank (the EMP), for the mitigation of the 
environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of Part A of the Project, to 
be issued by the Borrower on the basis of the environmental impact assessment of 
Part A of the Project, dated November 12, 2001; and 
(b) 
for the Bank’s review and approval: 
 
(i) 
the engineering design for such Subproject; and 
 
(ii) 
whenever the Subproject shall require resettlement 
of population, the corresponding resettlement action plan, 
such plan to be prepared in accordance with the 
Resettlement Framework. 
Section 3.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
not later than January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year 
during Project implementation, furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress in the implementation of the 
Page  11
10
-
-
Project during the previous three-month period, such progress to be measured against the 
Project monitoring indicators set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
in the month of June 2005, hold an in-depth review with the Bank, 
CONDEPE/FIDEM, COMPESA and the Municipalities of the progress of the Project and 
the attainment of its objective, such review to be based on the reports referred to in (a) 
above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank during such review as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objective, such action to be 
taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review. 
Section 3.11.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the respective 
operations, resources and expenditures of CONDEPE/FIDEM, COMPESA and the 
Municipalities in respect of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
Page  12
11
-
-
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records, accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
financial statements, records and accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to maintain, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
cause CONDEPE/FIDEM to retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.10 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
CONDEPE/FIDEM to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  13
12
-
-
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each such report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause COMPESA to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, with respect to Part B of the 
Project.  The Borrower shall cause COMPESA to provide CONDEPE/FIDEM with all 
relevant information required by the Borrower to comply with its obligations under 
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Recife or Olinda shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Recife Project Agreement or the Olinda Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events, which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable 
that Recife or Olinda will be able to perform its respective obligations under the Recife 
Project Agreement or the Olinda Project Agreement. 
(c) 
CONDEPE/FIDEM or COMPESA shall have failed to perform any of 
their respective obligations under the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement or the COMPESA 
Agreement. 
Page  14
13
-
-
(d) 
As a result of events, which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable 
that CONDEPE/FIDEM or COMPESA will be able to perform its respective obligations 
under the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement or the COMPESA Agreement. 
(e) 
As a result of events, which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the arrangements for the implementation of an alternative option for the efficient 
operation and management of water and sanitation services under Part B.3 of the Project 
(as referred to under Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement) be implemented. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Municipalities. 
Section 5.03. Without limitation to the Bank’s rights under Articles VI and VII of 
the General Conditions the Bank shall, when exercising its rights under Section 5.01 
above, make its best efforts to suspend disbursements only in relation to the parts of the 
Project (as said parts are identified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) that, in the Bank’s 
sole opinion, have been affected by the event that triggers such suspension.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the terms of reference, the short-list of firms and the request for 
proposals to be sent to such firms, regarding the consulting services referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement, have been presented to, and found satisfactory by, the Bank; 
(b) 
the financial management systems referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.03 
of this Agreement and in Section 3.01 of the Recife Project Agreement and the Olinda 
Project Agreement have been established, and the relevant staff of CONDEPE/FIDEM, 
COMPESA and the Municipalities have received a minimum of 40 hours of training in 
the use of such systems; 
Page  15
14
-
-
(c) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by 
CONDEPE/FIDEM with the policies and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
including, inter alia, the roles and responsibilities of CONDEPE/FIDEM, COMPESA and 
the Municipalities in the carrying out of the Project, their Project related reporting 
obligations, guidelines for the works under the Project including environmental 
specifications to be included in the bidding documents, standard bidding documents to be 
used for national competitive bidding procedures, and indicators to measure the progress 
of the Project (the Operational Manual); and 
(d) 
the Subsidiary Agreements, the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement and the 
COMPESA Agreement have been entered into between the respective parties thereto. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a) 
the Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank; 
(b) 
the Recife Project Agreement and the Olinda Project Agreement have 
been duly authorized, and are legally binding upon Recife and Olinda, respectively, in 
accordance with their terms; and 
(c) 
the CONDEPE/FIDEM Agreement and the COMPESA Agreement have 
been duly authorized, and are legally binding upon CONDEPE/FIDEM and COMPESA, 
respectively, in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date October 21, 2003, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Secretary of Planning and Social Development of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  16
15
-
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  
 Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria de Planejamento e Desenvolvimento Social 
 
Rua da Moeda, 46, Bairro do Recife 
 
50030-040, Recife, Pernambuco 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-81) 3224-7061 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 Brasil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
Page  17
16
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
 
By /s/ Jarbas de Andrade Vasconcelos 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  18
17
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
under: 
 
 
55% 
 
(a) 
Part A of the 
6,200,000 
 
Project 
 
(b) 
Part B.1 of the 
1,000,000 
 
Project 
 
(c) 
Part B.3 of the 
1,700,000 
 
Project  
 
(d) 
the Pilot Subprojects 
4,100,000 
 
(e) Subprojects 
23,320,000 
 
under Part C of 
 
the Project other  
 
than the Pilot 
 
Subprojects  
 
(2) 
Goods under Part B.2 
320,000 
55% 
 
of the Project 
 
 
Page  19
18
-
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
(a) 
under Part D of  
5,600,000 
70% 
 
the Project 
 
(b) 
under Part E of  
3,300,000 
100% of foreign 
 
the Project 
 
expenditures and 
 
70%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
460,000 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL 46,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made within one year before the date of this Agreement; 
Page  20
19
-
-
(b) 
expenditures under Category 1 (e) of the table in paragraph 1 above, 
unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a detailed analysis, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of the actual investment costs of the Pilot Subprojects; 
(c) 
Expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (1) (e) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above, unless Section 3.08 of this Agreement or Section 2.07 of the Olinda 
Project Agreement or of the Recife Project Agreement has been complied with in regard 
to the Subproject for which the relevant works covered by such Categories were 
constructed; and 
 
(d) 
expenditures under Category (1) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 above 
unless: (i) technical studies regarding the feasibility of the activities under Part B.3 of the 
Project have been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) technical and legal 
studies providing alternative options for the efficient operation and management of water 
and sanitation services in the UEs have been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (iii) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been made to implement an 
option satisfactory to the Bank from the alternative options referred in subparagraph (ii) 
above.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures under: (i) contracts for works costing less than the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 each; (ii) contracts for goods costing less than the equivalent of 
$350,000 each; (iii) contracts for consulting services to be provided by firms costing less 
than the equivalent of $100,000 each; and (iv) contracts for consulting services to be 
provided by individuals costing less than $50,000 each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  21
20
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the wealth and well being of the urban 
poor in the RMR by increasing the institutional capacity of public (at the state and 
municipal level) civic entities to plan for, deliver and maintain basic shelter and urban 
services for the RMR’s low-income population in a coordinated and sustainable manner. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Beberibe River Basin Investments
Carrying out of infrastructure and environmental projects for the overall 
improvement of the built and natural environment of the Beberibe River Basin, consisting 
of: (a) creation or rehabilitation of parks, including the ecological park along the margins 
of the Beberibe River, pocket parks within each of the UEs, and the Matadouro de 
Peixinhos complex of historic buildings; (b) construction or rehabilitation of roads and 
accesses, including improvements in the general flow of traffic; (c) improvements in 
macro drainage to reduce flooding; and (d) improvements in the transport systems of 
sewage to be treated by the Peixinhos waste water treatment plant. 
Part B
:
Water Distribution
1. 
Installation of pipes and carrying out of the associated works to improve water 
supply and distribution within the UEs. 
2. 
Acquisition of micro meters for household installation in the UEs. 
3. 
Installation of macro meters and the carrying out of associated works required to 
isolate the water distribution network within the UEs. 
Part C
:
Low-Income Investments
Carrying out of urbanization projects in groups of low-income settlements 
located in the UEs 03 (R), 04 (R), 08 (R), 17 (R), 19 (R), 20 (R), 21 (R) and 23 (R), 
which are in Recife, and 07 (O), 12 (O), 13 (O), 15 (O) and 17 (O), which are in Olinda, 
consisting of water supply and sanitation improvements and household connections, 
Page  22
21
-
-
secondary road improvements, micro drainage works, installation of public lighting, 
creation or rehabilitation of public parks and open spaces, resettlement of population 
from risk prone areas, and other related investments. 
Part D
:
Complementary Urbanization Activities
Carrying out of activities complementary to the activities under the preceding 
Parts of the Project, consisting of: (a) engineering design services for the Subprojects; (b) 
development of social outreach and community participation activities; (c) provision of 
environmental education to the communities; (d) feasibility studies for a sites and 
services project; (e) studies for expanding to other areas in the RMR the investments 
made under the Project; (f) Project monitoring and evaluation activities; (g) a feasibility 
study for the establishment and operation of a micro credit program for housing 
improvement and small business development in the Beberibe River Basin (and provision 
of technical assistance for the operation of such micro credit program); and (h) 
formulation of the EMP. 
Part E
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to CONDEPE/FIDEM and the Municipalities in 
the management, implementation and coordination of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  23
22
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
beginning May 15, 2008 
 
through November 15, 2017 
2,300,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  24
23
-
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
.
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, but not 
exceeding an amount equivalent to $49,120,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  The standard bidding documents set forth in the Operational Manual shall be 
used for the procurement of works under this Part C.  
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of works to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C: 
Page  25
24
-
-
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; and 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
2. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every six months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  26
25
-
-
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (a) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in Part B of this Section; (b) all contracts to be awarded by Olinda in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Part C of this Section; (c) the first two contracts to be awarded 
each by the Borrower and Recife in accordance with the procedures set forth in Part C of 
this Section; and (d) all contracts to be awarded by COMPESA in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Part C of this Section.   
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines,  and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 
Page  27
26
-
-
Part C
:
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six__ months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3  and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 the terms of reference of the 
consulting services and terms of employment of the consulting firms shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.  
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, and the terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
Page  28
27
-
-
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 (a) and (c) of this 
Part. 
 
Page  29
28
-
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of $15,000,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  30
29
-
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  31
30
-
-
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
