Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
LOAN NUMBER 4690-BR 
 
Recife Project Agreement 
 
(Recife Urban Upgrading Project -
 PROMETRÓPOLE) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE 
 
Dated July 23, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4690-BR 
RECIFE PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE (Recife). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
the State of Pernambuco (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of forty six million Dollars ($46,000,000) (the Loan), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, 
that Recife agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Recife, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) “Recife Component” means the activities to be carried out by Recife under 
the Project as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) “URB Recife” means 
Empresa de Urbanização do Recife
,
Recife’s 
urbanization company.
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. 
Recife declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through URB 
Recife, Recife’s Water and Sanitation Secretariat and Recife’s Planning, Urban and 
Environment Secretariat, carry out the Subprojects in UEs 03 (R), 04 (R), 08 (R), 17 (R), 
19 (R), 20 (R) and 21 (R) under Part C of the Project, the engineering design services in 
Part D (a) of the Project for the Subprojects under its responsibility, and the technical 
assistance in Part E of the Project in respect of its Project activities (the Recife 
Component), and assist the Borrower in the execution of Parts D (b), (c) and (g) of the 
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and urbanization practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Recife Component. 
Section 2.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works and consultants' services required for the Recife Component and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
Recife shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Recife Component. 
Section 2.04. 
Recife shall, not later than the initiation of any bidding 
procedure for works under the Recife Component, employ, as provided in Section II of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, a consulting firm to assist Recife, during the 
execution of the Recife Component, in the management and implementation of the Recife 
Component. 
Section 2.05. 
Recife shall comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign or amend the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 2.06. 
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, Recife shall carry out the Recife Component, as applicable, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, and any population resettlement 
action plan and environmental management plan that may be approved by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 2.07 of this Agreement. In case of any conflict between the provisions 
Page  4
-
3
-
of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement or the Loan Agreement, the terms 
of such Agreements shall prevail. 
Section 2.07. 
Prior to initiating any bidding procedure for works under any 
Subproject in Part C of the Project, Recife shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
approval: 
(a) 
the engineering design for such Subproject; 
(b) 
the results of the screening for potential impacts of such Subproject on 
the environment, and, if applicable, an environmental management plan to mitigate such 
environmental impacts; and 
(c) 
whenever such Subproject shall require resettlement of population, the 
corresponding resettlement action plan, such plan to be prepared in accordance with the 
Resettlement Framework. 
Section 2.08. 
Recife shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Borrower, in a timely manner, all the information required 
on the part of Recife to enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of Sections 3.10 
(a) and 3.11 of the Loan Agreement; and 
(b) 
participate in the review referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of the 
Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
Recife shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Recife 
Component, the accomplishment of the objectives of the Project, or the performance by 
Recife of its obligations under this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. 
(a) 
Recife shall maintain a financial management system in 
URB Recife, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of 
Recife in respect of the Recife Component. 
(b) Recife 
shall: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year; (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records, accounts 
and the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
financial statements, records and accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02.  Recife shall furnish to the Borrower, in a timely manner, all 
the information required on the part of Recife to enable the Borrower to comply with the 
provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the Loan Agreement.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date on 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Recife 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Recife thereof. 
Section 4.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Recife: 
 
Prefeitura do Recife 
 
Av. Cais do Apolo, 925 
–12do. andar 
 
50030-903, Recife, Pernambuco 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  (011-55-81) 3425-8851 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais- SEAIN 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Recife, may be 
taken or executed by the Mayor of Recife or such other person or persons as the Mayor of 
Recife shall designate in writing, and Recife shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 
5.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF RECIFE 
 
By /s/ João Paulo Lima e Silva 
Authorized Representative
 
