Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14723
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2194-TO)
JUNE 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: CFA franc
Annual average per US dollars
1990        273.3
1991        282.1
1992        275.3
1993        283.2
1994        557.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO        Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIR          Comit6 Interministeriel Restreint de suivi du PAS
(Structural Adjustment Inter-ministerial Steering committee)
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (State Agricultural Credit Agency)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
TMF          International Monetary Fund (the Fund)
MCT          Ministere du Commerce et des Transports
(Ministry of Commerce and Transportation)
MDR          Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
MEF          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MISE         Ministere de l'Industrie et des Societ6s d'Etat
(Ministry of Industry and Public Enterprises)
MPAT         Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire (Ministry of Plan)
OPAT         Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
(Office of Agricultural Products/Marketing Board)
OTP          Office Togolais des Phosphates (Togolese Phosphates Company)
PES          Public Enterprise Sector
PIP          Public Investment Program
SAL          Structural Adjustment Lending (Bank Loan or IDA Credit)
SOTOCO       Societ6 Togolaise de Coton (Togolese Cotton Company)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................i
PART 1. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background .
B.     The Program
I  Rationale and Preparation                                .1
2  Objectives and Description                               .2
C.     Program Implementation and Results
I   A Major Factor: Political Turmoil                          .2
2  Macroeconomic Performance                                 .3
3 Public Finance                                       .3
4  Public Sector Management                                 .4
5   Public Enterprise Sector Reform                            .5
6 Industrial Sector                                     .6
7  Agricultural Sector                                   .6
8  Human Resource Development                                 .7
D.  Program Impact and Sustainability                            .7
E. Bank Performance                                      .8
F. Borrower Performance                                    .9
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Key Lessons Learned .10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authofization.l



PART II.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related IDA Credits
Table 3:     Credit Timetable
Table 4:     Credit disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation (not applicable)
Table 6:     Key Indicators: Macroeconomic Performance 1990-94
(a) Annual Real GDP Percentage Increase
(b) GDP by Sector of Activities
(c) Trade Balance and Current Account Deficit
(d) Government Finance
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Program
Table 8A:    Project Costs (not applicable)
Table 8B:    Project Financing (not applicable)
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits (not applicable)
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants: Second tranche release conditions
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13     Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIXES
A.    Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR (to be forwarded)
C.    Policy Statement by the Togolese Government (Summary and Conclusions)
D.    Policy Matrix



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2194-TO)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAL IV) of the International Development Association (IDA) to the
Republic of Togo. The Credit (2194-TO) of SDR 39.6 million (US$ 55 million
equivalent) was approved by the Executive Directors on December 18, 1990, signed on
December 21, 1990, and became effective on December 28, 1990. The Credit supported
the Government's fourth structural adjustment program that was to cover the period
1990-92. No cofinancing arrangement was made under SAL IV.
2.    The Credit was closed on May 4, 1995, compared with the original closing date of
March 31, 1993. The first tranche of US$ 25 million equivalent, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 1991. Release of the second tranche of
US$ 15 million equivalent, which had been scheduled some twelve months after
effectiveness, was delayed by more than two years, until July 1994, and was fully
disbursed by July 1994. The delay was mainly due to the political turmoil that Togo
experienced from 1991 to early 1994. Given Togo's changed economic circumstances,
the remainder of the SAL IV program no longer corresponded to the country's needs. As
a result, the Government and the Bank agreed to (i) cancel the third tranche of Credit
2194-TO (US$ 15 million equivalent), and (ii) reassess Togo's financing requirements and
reform agenda with the view to initiating the preparation of a new adjustment operation.
The undisbursed balance of SDR 10.6 million was canceled with the value date of May 4,
1995.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Manga Kuoh, Country Operations Division, West
Central Africa Department (AF4CO). It was reviewed by Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala,
Division Chief, AF4CO, and Mr. Franz Kaps, Project Advisor, AF4DR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission of March,
1995 (see mission aide-memoire in Appendix A). It is based on material in project files
and on discussions with Government officials and Bank staff involved in the preparation
and supervision of the Credit.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2194-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    The Government launched the preparation of the Fourth Structural Adjustment
Program (SAL IV, or the Program) in mid-1989. Despite substantial achievements in
liberalizing the Togolese economy under the previous three SALs (1983, 1986, and 1988), the
economy remained vulnerable to extemal shocks, and there were flaws evident in the
management of the economy and the organization of several government agencies.
R Program Objecfives and Description
2.    SAL IV objectives were to increase economic growth to more than 4 percent per
annum by 1992, limit inflation to 3 percent or less, reduce the current account deficit to 7.7
percent of GDP by 1992, improve the Government's financial situation, and improve the
delivery of social services.  The Program  included the following specific reforms: (a)
improvements in public finance management through the broadening of the tax base, further
improvements in the PIP, and a new procurement code; (b) improvements in public sector
management through a detailed program of organizational reform of the Ministries of Planning,
Finance and Commerce, and the development of a civil service employment strategy; (c)
further reform of the public enterprise sector (PES); (d) measures to encourage private
investment in the industrial sector and to support agricultural production; and (e) promotion of
human resource development by rationalizing delivery systems and budgetary allocations.
3.    SAL IV preparation did not include a hard enough look at the way the key government
function of budget preparation and execution was fulfilled. Moreover, the initial stage of the
Program placed too much emphasis on the conduct of studies as opposed to actual reforms
whose implementation was planned for the release of the third tranche.
C Implementation and Results
4.    During the 1990-94 period, Togo's political life was marked by violence, a general
strike (November 1992 - July 1993), and the temporary displacement of more than 200,000
people, a majority of whom sought refuge in neighboring countries. These events had a severe
adverse impact on SAL IV implementation.
5.    Macroeconomic Performance. In contrast to the Program target of 4 percent annual
growth, Togo experienced negative growth of-0.9 percent in 1991, -3.7 percent in 1992, and
-13.5 percent in 1993, before growing by 10.7 percent in 1994. Inflation was held at



ii
around 3% in 1991 and 1992 and the GDP deflator fell by a negative -2.3 percent in1993. The
trade balance showed a narrow gap between the Program forecast and actual deficits largely
because of a decline in imports of about 50% between 1990-1993. The current account deficit
remained high in absolute terms though, and Togo accumulated arrears. The Government's
financial situation presented a negative primary balance from 1992 onwards mainly because of
the drop in fiscal revenue from CFA franc 114 billion in 1990 to CFA franc 39 billion in 1993.
In contrast, macroeconomic performance was strong in 1994, reflecting the resumption of
activities and the effect of the devaluation of the CFA franc.
6.    Public Finance.  The country situation did not permit any diversification and
broadening of the tax base. The sharp reduction of fiscal revenue placed strong constraints on
budget allocations. Nevertheless, the 1991 and 1992 allocations reflected the Program's
emphasis on health, education, agriculture and road maintenance. One Program achievement
was the inclusion of investments financed with the proceeds of phosphate counter-trade in the
public investment program (PIP), thus increasing transparency. However the needed overhaul
of budgetary procedures started only at the beginning of 1995.
7.    Public Sector Management. Studies were conducted by consultants, and the
Government drew up action plans for the Ministries of Planning, Finance and Commerce.
However, because of disturbances in the administration, the uneven quality of the reports, and
to some extent lack of commitment on the part of civil servants expected to implement the
reforms, no progress was made towards reorganizing these key economic ministries.
8.    The Borrower completed a study of the Ministry for Labor, but its scope was reduced
because the transition government deemed a comprehensive study no longer necessary and
preferred to initiate concrete action instead, including a census of civil servants carried out in
May of 1992. The census enabled a clean-up of the civil service roster and made it possible to
initiate its reconciliation with the payroUl data.
9.    Public Enterprise Sector Reform. Substantial progress was achieved in the PES reform.
However, several liquidations are yet to be completed. Moreover, the breakdown of the data
processing equipment has not enabled the Government to take full advantage of the new
management information system (MIS) implemented under the Program.
10.   Industry and Agriculture. The political climate, coupled with a dramatic reduction in
savings and public and private spending, offered little incentive to potential industrial investors.
In agriculture, Decree 91/90, calling for the reorganization of the Ministry of Rural
Development, was signed on April 3, 1991, but was not enforced, largely because of the
divergence of views among donors.
11.   Human Resource Development.  The authorities heightened attention to the
development of human resources enhanced the role of the social ministries in the formulation of
economic policies and in the monitoring of SALs. Study groups were set up to review different



iii
social issues and work started on a poverty survey. Finally, health districts were mapped out,
and the review of the drug supply policy was initiated.
D. Borrower and Bank Performance
12.   The Preparation Phase. Measures taken before Credit effectiveness (liquidation of
Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole, draft law reformning the legal framework for public
enterprises, contract for the diagnostic study of the three economic ministries) permitted action
steps which might have been compromised by later political and social events. With the fiscal
and economic collapse induced by the political crisis, two risks foreseen at appraisal (a weak
supply response, and a limited commitment to the reforms) materialized in a much more drastic
form than had been contemplated.
13.   Performance during Implementation. The Borrower fulfilled its obligations for the
release of the second tranche and ensured proper financial and administrative management of
the Credit. More fundamentally, the political troubles of 1991-94 and the ensuing economic
difficulties prevented the Borrower from implementing several elements of the Program.
Technically, the implementation and coordination  arrangements of the Program were less
efficient than under previous SALs, since the Ministry of Plan was fairly well equipped to
manage economic reforms but had limited capacity to deal with institutional reforms in such
areas as the civil service reform.
14.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory with eight general or partial supervision
missions to Togo over the 1991-94 period. The Bank's Resident Representative saw to it that
each newly appointed minister was given the necessary briefing on the Program. The Bank's
decision not to cancel the Credit earlier enabled it to: (a) continue to support reform in such
areas as the public enterprise sector; (b) provide Togo with financial support by releasing the
second tranche of the Credit in July 1994, once an effective government was in office; and (c)
develop a dialogue with the new authorities rapidly.
E. Program Outcome and Sustainability
15.   The overall outcome of the Program was unsatisfactory because political disturbances
in 1991-93 prevented implementation of key reforms and seriously weakened the economy.
Moreover, the flaws in the Program design, from the institutional standpoint, foreshadowed the
lack of long-term impact that SAL IV was to produce in the area of public sector management.
Concerning human resources development, policy instruments developed and reform measures
initiated are likely to have a lasting positive impact. Besides, it is clear that the strong private
sector-led recovery of the economy started in 1994 would not have been possible without the
substantial liberalization of the Togolese economy that took place under the SAL process.



iv
F. Key Lessons Learned
16.   Togo's SAL IV experience brought the following lessons:
a)    Signs of commitment to reforms. During the preparation of a SAL, one should keep in
mind that the willingness to undertake studies provides no guarantee as to the commitment to
implement reforms.
b)    Limits of SALs as an instrument of reform. Second, structural adjustment credits do
not appear to be particularly well-suited for supporting the implementation of institutional
reforms, such as the reorganization of ministries, which require a continuous effort over a
period longer than the disbursement periods of SALs.
c)    Need for a comprehensive approach to public resource management reforms. In a
genuine attempt to introduce transparency in public resource management, SAL IV focused
mainly on the introduction in the PIP of phosphate counter-trade expenditure. However, in
retrospect, SAL IV should have addressed the issue of public resource management in a
comprehensive way focusing also on a unified budget framework, budget execution
procedures, and links between investment expenditure and current expenditures.
d)    Supervision of SALs. The role of a resident mission can prove critical in following up
on an operation, especially when a country faces serious political troubles. In addition,
maintaining a vehicle for policy reform, even under times of political strain and uncertainty,
may prove to be a good decision, which allows the Bank and the Borrower to loose no time in
finding a basis for their dialogue as soon as calm is restored.
e)    Relations between Togo and the Bank. Because the Program did not achieve most of
its institutional reform objectives, institutional shortcomings still represent one of the principal
impediments to the country's development today. Consequently, the topics of institutional
adjustment and governance should be emphasized in the dialogue between the Bank and the
Togolese authorities. Such dialogue should focus on the management of public finance, civil
service reform, reforms in the two or three most important public enterprises, and the
distribution of roles between the central government and decentralized structures. The recent
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Togo dated June 2, 1995, highlights these items in
presenting the key issues in the Government's reform agenda.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2194-TO)
PART I. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Togo is a small open economy dependent primarily on food and cash crops (cocoa, cotton, and
coffee), mining (phosphate), and regional trade. In the mid-1970s, the favorable evolution of world
prices for Togo's major export commodities led the country to embark on an ambitious program of
public spending and the creation of public enterprises. However, many of these investments were
associated with low rates of return and contributed to the weakening of the country's fiscal and
extemal position. With the sharp decline in commodity prices in 1978 and again in 1981-82, Togo
entered the 1980s with intemal and extemal imbalances, a high external indebtedness, and structural
rigidities which inhibited domestic production. Between 1983 and 1989, it implemented a wide-
ranging economic stabilization and adjustment program that was supported by three IDA-financed
structural adjustment credits (1983, 1985 and 1988) and by a number of IMF standby and SAF
arrangements.
2.    Under the three first SALs, there was substantial progress toward financial stability and the
economy grew at annual rates of 3 to 5 percent which outstripped the population rate of 3 percent.
Important policy reforms were implemented including: (a) the liberalization of food crop marketing; (b)
the elimination of import and export licensing and of the import monopoly of the state trading
company; (c) price liberalization; (d) the privatization or liquidation of 30 public enterprises out of a
total of 73; (e) the creation of an export processing zone; (f) the adoption of a three-year rolling public
investment program (PIP); and (g) the introduction of a flexible system for setting producer prices for
cotton, cocoa and coffee. Performance was, however, uneven. Togo's efforts at financial stability
were undermined by declining prices of phosphate and cotton, by overruns in public spending in the
wake of the 1986 political disturbances, and by its overvalued currency. After 1987, progress slowed
on the public enterprise sector (PES) reform and major enterprises such as the Office Togolais des
Phosphates (OTP) were not included in the reform.
B.  THE PROGRAM
Rationale and Preparation
3.    At the end of the 80s, the Togolese economy remained vulnerable to external shocks because
of the concentration of exports on a few products. There were glaring flaws in the management of the
economy and the organization of several government agencies.  The PIP reflected continued
institutional weaknesses, including little independent capacity on the part of the Government to situate
public investments within a consistent macroeconomic framework and coherent sector strategies.
Budgetary allocations for human resource development such as health and education were inadequate



2
and the distribution of expenditures was heavily skewed towards personnel expenditures.  The
mandate, staffing structure, and procedures of key economic ministries had remained virtually
unchanged from the pre-adjustment period, whereas, for example, the significance of the Ministry of
Commerce (MCT), formerly responsible for administering the foreign trade licensing system and the
intemal price fixing system, had been sharply reduced. In mid-1989, the Government launched the
preparation of a Fourth Structural Adjustment Program (SAL IV, or the Program) to try and correct
these distortions.
Objectives and Description
4.    SAL IV objectives were to (a) increase GDP growth to 4 percent per annum by 1992; (b) limit
inflation to an annual rate of 3 percent or less; (c) reduce the extemal current account deficit to 7.7
percent of GDP by 1992; (d) improve the Government financial situation; and (e) improve the delivery
of social services.
5.    To achieve these objectives, the Program included the following: (a) improvements in public
finance management through the broadening of the tax base, further improvements in the preparation
and execution of the PIP, and the promulgation of a new procurement code; (b) improvements in
public sector management through a detailed program of organizational reform of the three key
economic rninistries (Finance, Plan, and Commerce) and the development of a civil service employment
strategy; (c) reform of the PES through divestitures and the enactment and implementation of a legal
framework giving greater autonomy to public enterprises; (d) measures to encourage investment in the
industrial sector and to support agricultural production; and (e) promotion of human resources by
rationalizing delivery systems and budgetary allocations in the education and health sectors, and by
developing new institutional mechanisms and technical instruments for a better integration of social
considerations into policy fornulation.
C.  PROGRAM IUPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
A Major Factor: Political Turmoil
6.    In the late 1 980s, pressures mounted in favor of political pluralism. In the first quarter of 1991,
the countrys political life was marked by violence and civil disobedience, followed by the organization
of a national conference in July 1991, and the installation of a transition government in August of the
same year. The electoral calendar agreed upon at the end of the national conference was, however,
delayed. A general strike, called in November 1992 by opposition parties and trade unions, lasted nine
months, brought the administration to a standstill, and paralyzed a number of enterprises. The
worsening security conditions led a large number of Togolese, estimated at between 200,000 and
300,000, to abandon their homes, and, for the majority of them, to seek refuge in neighboring
countries.
7.    These events had a severe adverse impact on SAL IV implementation. When Togo emerged
from its three-year crisis in 1994, the Program no longer corresponded to the economic problems



3
facing the country. In mid 1994, the Government and the Bank, agreed that it would be better to
cancel the third and last tranche of the Credit and develop a new assistance strategy reflecting Togo's
current constraints. Because of the political events and delays, an assessment of SAL IV over the
originally scheduled execution period of 1990-92 would have little meaning. This ICR assesses the
Program's achievements over the period from 1990 to 1994 when some measure of stability retumed to
the country.
Macroeconomic Performance
8.    Economic Growth. In contrast to the Program target of a minimum positive growth of 4
percent per annum, Togo experienced negative growth from 1991 to 1993 as indicated in Table 6 (a).
Despite a strong real GDP growth of 10.7 percent in 1994, the 1994 real GDP is still lower than that of
1991. The breakdown of the GDP by sector in Table 6 (b) shows a larger cutback of activities in the
secondary and tertiary sectors than in the primary sector reflecting the fact that urban areas were more
affected by the political events than were the rural districts. The resumption of activities in the modem
sector should trigger a return to the pre-crisis pattem of GDP distribution between rural and urban
areas.
9.    Inflation. Mainly because of the decline in demand, inflation was held at about 3 percent in
1991 and 1992, and the GDP deflator fell by a negative -2.3 percent in 1993. In the wake of the 50
percent devaluation of the CFA franc relative to the French franc in January 1994, inflation was about
30 percent (as measured by the GDP deflator) for 1994. The stabilization of prices in the second half
of the year nevertheless indicates that the underlying rate of inflation has returned to the low pre-
devaluation level.
10.   External Accounts. The trade balance in Table 6(c) shows a relatively narrow gap between the
Program forecast and actual deficits, largely because of a decline of around 50 percent in imports
between 1990 and 1993. The current account deficit (excluding capital transfers) remained high in
absolute temis though, averaging US$ 100 million in 1992-93. Togo accumulated arrears which
amounted to US$ 111 million at the end of 1993, representing 8 percent of its GDP.
Public Finance
11.   Government Financial Situation. In order to reduce the fiscal deficit, one element in the
Government's strategy was to ensure adequate fiscal receipts by broadening the tax base and increasing
the contribution of public enterprises to the budget. Instead of the positive primary balance anticipated,
the Govemment saw a negative primary balance from 1991 onwards as indicated in Table 6 (d). With
activities stopped in many enterprises and tax collection interrupted for several months, revenues fell
and there was no possibility of diversifying and broadening the tax base. Revenues fell by about two
thirds from CFA franc 100 billion in 1990 to CFA franc 38 billion in 1993. Moreover, the suspension
of aid programs by various donors, reduced annual grants to the country from CFA franc 14.3 billion in
1990 to CFA franc I billion in 1993. On the expenditure side, cuts on that same scale were not
possible, due to the rigidity of expense items such as personnel expenses which actually increased by
about 15 percent in 1991. Finally, SAL IV called for adequate budget allocations for health care,



4
education, agriculture and road maintenance. However, the 62 percent reduction of fiscal revenue
between 1990 and 1993, placed very strong constraints on budget allocations. Still, in percentage
terms, the allocations and the distribution between salary and non-salary expenditure reflected the
concerns emphasized by the Program.
12.   Public Investments. The Program sought to increase the levels of directly productive public
investment and to enhance the transparency of investment budgeting by including all investments
financed by phosphate counter-trade in the PIP. One achievement of the Program was the actual
inclusion of these investments in the PIP. In addition, to improve the execution of the PIP and facilitate
the timely implementation of projects, the Government revised its procurement procedures and
adopted a new procurement code. It is too early, however, to determine the impact of the new
procurement code. In the medium term, the credibility of the procurement code will depend on how
effectively it is applied and on the performance of the judiciary in settling disputes.
Public Sector Management
13.   Reorganization of Econormic Ministries.  The Government had been concerned with the
performance of the three economic ministries (Finance, Plan, and Commerce) which played key roles in
the reform process in the 1980s and, for two of them, were expected to have major contributions in the
implementation of SAL IV. With allocation and monitoring of spending being done essentially by
ministries (as opposed to programs or activities), budgetary procedures in the Ministry of Finance
(MEF) did not allow for a functional analysis of expenditure nor did it ensure that the actual
distribution of expenditure was consistent with stated priorities. The Ministry of Plan (MPAT) failed
to accomplish one of its principal missions satisfactorily since shortcomings were noticeable in the
preparation and execution of the PIP. The Ministry of Commerce and Transportation (MCT) had to
redefine its role in the new context of less State involvement in economic activities.
14.   Because of disturbances in the administration and the uneven quality of the respective analyses,
no progress had been made towards reorganizing the three key economic ministries. Studies were
conducted by consultants in 1990-91, and the Government drew up action plans for each of the three
ministries in 1994. Despite good diagnoses, the experts' recommendations lacked incisiveness,
especially with regard to the MCT and the revision of budgetary procedures. Some of the blame must
also be placed upon various administrative units lacking in commitment to the changes and which
tended to cling to tasks perceived as the only means of preserving their authority.  Relevant
recommendations thus met with opposition, especially when the head of a given unit had been in office
long enough to introduce de facto changes in the mandate and procedures of that unit.
15.   Civil Service Reform. Critical to the Government's success in controlling current expenditures
was continued restriction on the wage bill, which represented about 40 percent of all current
expenditures. The Program was to develop a coherent medium-term civil service employment strategy
that would enable the Government to improve employment practices and address the constraints
limiting civil service productivity. In response, the Government was to conduct a diagnostic study of
the civil service, adopt an action plan, and start implementing it. The Borrower completed a study of



5
the Ministry for Labor and Civil Service. However, it was more limited in its scope than initially
envisaged because the reform-minded transition government did not consider a comprehensive study
necessary to make its decisions and preferred to initiate concrete action instead.
16.   A census of civil servants carried out in May 1992, made it possible to delete the names of
dead personnel, report unjustified absences, and identify irregular cases of appointments to civil service
positions. But little follow-up was undertaken because of the political turmoil and the resistance that
political appointees met in trying to exercise their administrative authority. The non-payment for strike
days together with the two to three months salary arrears accumulated in the course of 1992 and 1993,
were major factors contributing to the demoralizing of many government workers. Still, the efforts
deployed to reconcile the payroll data with the civil service roster were fairly successful. The objective
of setting up a single central file with separate servers, appears to be feasible in the medium term.
Substantial progress would then be possible in manpower and career management.
Public Enterprise Sector Reform
17.   Under previous SALs, the Government had made significant progress in divestiture, reducing
the number of public enterprises from 73 in the mid- 1980s to 50 in 1990. However additional efficiency
gains were in order and the effort to rationalize the PES was to continue under the Program in three
ways.
18.   Institutional strengthening. The Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises (MfSE), responsible
for supervising the PES, adopted a new organizational chart, compiled an operational manual,
organized short term specialized training for its staff, set up a documentation center, and acquired
computer equipment. The clarification of the terms of reference of the various directorates and the
staff familiarization with the new procedures substantially enhanced the MISE's performance in 1991.
19.   State Divestiture Program. The objective was to complete the program launched under the
previous SALs (the initial program) and to implement a supplementary program covering 18
enterprises. Under the initial program, the Government liquidated 12 enterprises which were closed
down; leased the assets of another two; and sold 13 enterprises. Despite the progress made, the initial
divestiture program is yet to be completed. The books are yet to be closed in several companies being
liquidated, and the assets of others yet to be sold. Collection problems have arisen with payments due
for privatization, sale of assets, and leasing arrangements.
20.   Under the supplementary program, the Government: (a) liquidated the Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole (CNCA); (b) sold the Miramar hotel; (c) conducted diagnostic studies for five out of
the six enterprises targeted (most of the recommendations have been implemented); and (d) enacted a
legislative framework for the sale of State shares in mixed-ownership companies. Two divestitures that
had not been included either in the initial or the supplementary program were also successfully
completed: the liquidation of the SRCC (cocoa and coffee research) in July 1992, and the sale of
SOTOTOLES (corrugated metal) in November 1992. In addition, three major public enterprises - the
social security agency (CNSS), the phosphate company (OTP), and the agricultural marketing agency
(OPAT) - were also audited in 1992 under the Program and diagnostic studies were carried out for



6
OTP and OPAT in view of the deterioration of their financial situation. The studies were key to the
dialogue on OTP and OPAT and their subsequent inclusion in the Government's reform agenda.
21.   Improving the management of the State portfolio. The Program called for: (a) expanding the
management information system (MIS); (b) revising the by-laws of public enterprises; and
(c) making public enterprises subject to the same taxes as other enterprises. The MIS was extended to
cover all public enterprises, and quarterly reports were submitted up to December 31, 1991. Because
of the strikes and the breakdown of the data processing equipment since April 1993, the Government
has not been able to take full advantage of the MIS. On the other hand, Law 90-26 of December 4,
1990, reforming the legal framework for public enterprises, took effect along with all pertinent
enforcement decrees and ministerial orders. Company by-laws were brought into line with the
provisions of the new law, for all public enterprises except three (see Table 10, item. 5). Financial
flows between the Government and public enterprises were clarified substantially. Instead of making
ad hoc contribution to the budget depending on their cash position, public enterprises were submitted
to the same fiscal regime as other enterprises. They also started assuming the servicing of their external
debt.
Industrial Sector
22.   In an effort to diversify the sources of economic growth, the Government adopted in October
1989 a new Investment Code and established an export processing zone in September 1989. The
response of small and medium investors to this new environment had remained relatively weak, partly
because of insufficient support measures for Togolese investors. Therefore, in 1990 the main concern
was to ensure that the existing industrial promotional mechanisms operate properly, with support from
the IDA-financed Private Enterprise Promotion Project (Credit No. 1843-TO). SAL IV did not
include any new reform measures, and did not have any specific tranche release condition concerning
the industrial sector.
23.   The political climate coupled with a dramatic reduction in savings and public and private
spending, offered little incentive to potential investors. In addition, recognizing the difficulty of
canying out the Private Enterprise Promotion Project, the authorities and the Bank agreed to cancel
Credit No. 1843-TO in 1994, when only 10 percent of the approved amount had been disbursed.
Starting in the second quarter of 1994, however, potential investors began to display renewed interest
in the export processing zone.
Agricultural Sector
24.   In 1990, the agricultural sector accounted for one third of GDP and its evolution was
considered critical for Togo's medium-term prospects. In addition, the poor outlook for some of
Togo's primary commodity exports (coffee, cocoa, phosphate) implied that increased production of
food crops and other non-traditional exports would assume a particular importance. This called for
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of agricultural support services. SAL IV sought to: (a)
reorganize the Ministry of Rural Development; (b) improve the distribution and use of fertilizers; and



7
(c) develop a financial intermediation system to replace the CNCA. Decree 91/90, calling for the
reorganization of the MDR, was signed on April 3, 1991 but was not enforced. One obstacle proved to
be the divergence of views among donors, which led the MDR to request financing for new studies in
mid-1994. The lack of counterpart funds often negatively affected the implementation of projects
designed to foster agricultural production. The promotion of exports of food crops and non-traditional
cash crops proved impossible because of the troubled political situation.
Human Resource Development
25.   In 1990, the education and health sectors suffered from a number of structural imbalances.
Expenditures on education materials at the primary level amounted to less than US$ I per student, a
level well below the minimum norm of US$ 5 per student considered acceptable at that time (Re.
President Report No P-5397-TO: para. 80). In health, the heavy concentration of current expenditures
on personnel and the emphasis on hospital care with a strong bias in favor of the capital city of Lome
meant that the availability of primary health care services in rural areas was particularly disadvantaged.
Moreover, throughout the 1980s, the lack of instruments and institutional mechanisms to measure and
take into account the social impact of policy choices prevented the Government from adjusting or
reformulating policies in light of their social impact.
26.   Because of the political tunnoil in 1991-93, the education system ground to a halt and health
care services deteriorated to the point where vaccination campaigns were suspended. Nevertheless, the
authorities' heightened attention to the development of human resources enabled SAL IV to make
some headway. The social ministries took a more active part in the discussions of economic policy and
in monitoring the adjustment program. As part of the Government action plan, work started on a
poverty survey. The close coordination between the Health Sector Project (Credit No. 22110-TO) and
SAL IV greatly enhanced the Program's impact in the health sector, which fared better than the
education sector. A health sector strategy was formulated and gradually implemented. Health districts
were mapped out, and the review of the drug supply policy was initiated.
D.    PROGRAM IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY
27.   Economic growth and structural changes. SAL. IV has had a very limited impact on the
economy because political turmoil kept Togo from achieving the economic growth rates anticipated,
and most agreed reform measures could not be implemented. Despite the reduction in the number of
public enterprises, the real impact of the PES reform is yet to be assessed, especially the change in the
significance of the sector in terms of value added, employment, fiscal receipts, budgetary outlays, and
bank credit. It should be noted, however, that the ten years of adjustment has provided Togo with a
leaner and less costly PES. In 1994, Togo had one of the most liberalized economic system in the
region. Consequently, the combined effects of the CFA franc devaluation and the progressive return to
political stability prompted an economic recovery in 1994 that should be confirmed in 1995 and 1996.
28.   Social policy. The increased focus on social aspects of reforms introduced by SAL IV
(especially, the importance of ensuring that reasonable budgetary allocations for health care and



8
education are preserved) should have a lasting impact on Togo's development policies. The position of
social sector ministries in the dynamics of reform has been asserted. Sectoral projects managed by
those ministries themselves should pick-up with the resumption of donor support.
29.   Institutional Reforms. The Program has had little impact on institution building. With regard
to the reorganization of ministries, civil service reform or the management of public finances, the
changes sought during SAL IV preparation were not implemented.  The absenteeism  in the
administration which is reportedly higher than before the crisis, and the worsening working conditions
in various services as a result of the dwindling operating budgets, suggest even a decline in institutional
capacity.
30.   Besides, little progress in the realm of budgetary procedures as a whole was achieved during
the Program period. At year-end 1994, just as in 1990, the MEF and the MPAT, respectively and
separately, handled the current budget and the investment budget and the link between the PIP and the
current budget still needed to be reinforced. Moreover, the total of outlays termed "off budget," either
because they did not appear in the general budget or because of their special mode of disbursement,
was estimated at 40 percent of public expenditures in 1993 and 1994. The overhaul of budgetary
procedures, including work towards the consolidation of the budget, started only at the beginning of
1995 with technical assistance from the IMF.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Program Preparation.  Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory.  Given their close
collaboration under the previous SALs and during the preparation of SAL IV, the Borrower and the
Bank shared the responsibility for the Program design, although the idea and initiative for SAL IV
came from the Government. SAL IV sought to supplement and deepen the reforms launched under
the previous SALs, while heightening the concern for social progress. However, the design of the
Program raises some questions. Some institutional constraints and the mnalfunctioning of the public
sector were accurately described, but were not adequately addressed in the Program design. The
cautious objectives set for institutional reforms in the central government suggest that the constraints
and shortcomings cited were not seen to be a critical impediment to the country's long term
development, and that the arrangements for formulating and implementing economic policy and
development projects were considered effective. Therefore, SAL IV was to call for changes in the
structure of a few ministries considered individually, instead of taking a hard look at the way key
government overall economic finctions are flulfilled. The Program did not include, for example, the
unification of the different budgets. In addition, the initial stage of the Program placed too much
emphasis on the conduct of studies as opposed to the actual reforms.
32.   Measures taken before Credit effectiveness (liquidation of CNCA, draft law reforming the legal
framework for public enterprises, signing of a contract for the diagnostic study of the three economic
ministries) permitted the implementation of significant actions which might have been compromised by
events. The existence of two other tranches of disbursement after the Credit effectiveness proved to be



9
relevant to the situation because it allowed Togo to initiate the reforms included in the Program even
though many of them were not completed.
33.   The three risks foreseen at appraisal were: (a) adverse international developments; (b) a weak
supply response to incentive measures; and (c) limited commitment to the reforms. Political events
brought about the second and third risks in a much more dramatic form than had been contemplated
when the Program was prepared. Indeed, in contrast to the actual downward trend observed (see
Table 6a), GDP growth in the worst-case scenario was expected to fluctuate within a positive range of
2 to 2.6 percent between 1990 and 1993.
34.   Program Supervision. Between Credit effectiveness in December 1990 and December 1994,
the Bank dispatched eight general or partial supervision missions to Togo (see Table 13). Moreover,
the Bank's Resident Representative, in conjunction with the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
(CIR), saw to it that each newly appointed minister and the members of his cabinet were given the
necessawy information and briefing on the Program.
35.   The duration of political and social disturbances throughout most of the Program period led
many donors to consider whether they should pursue or suspend their activities. By not canceling the
Credit during the period of political turmoil, the Bank facilitated the implementation of the measures
necessary for the release of the second tranche. The Bank attitude enabled it to: (a) continue to
support the reform in areas where progress was possible, such as the public enterprise sector, (b)
provide Togo with financial support by releasing the second tranche of the Credit in July 1994, once an
effective elected government was in office; and (c) develop a dialogue rapidly with the new authorities
in order to forge a new assistance strategy.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Ownership of the Program. The key role of Togolese officials during SAL IV preparation (in
particular, the drafting of a comprehensive Policy Statement), as well as the existence of the CIR
responsible for Program coordination and monitoring, points to an initial high degree of ownership of
SAL IV and an accurate understanding of the rationale and implications of the reform measures on the
part of a number of government officials. The commitment to the reforms in Togo seems to have been
strong over the years in regard to economic liberalization and to have remained significant concerning
the State divestiture program. But commitment was distinctly weaker in the area of institutional
reforms in central government agencies. Moreover, some officials, encountered during the completion
mission, felt that their own offices had not always been sufficiently involved in the preparation and
monitoring of the Program. Such comments are indicative of the broader issue of task assignment
within the Government as well as the role played by the MPAT in the management of reforms (para.
38).
37.   Performance during Implementation. Up to the release of the second tranche, the Borrower
fulfilled its obligations related to the adoption of various pieces of legislation and the preparation of
various studies. Disbursements were made, in accordance with the procedures established, through the



10
BCEAO, which managed the special account. The audit report for the fiscal year 1991 notes that "the
nature and authenticity of the documents which served to mobilize the Credit presented no
irregularity".
38.   The management arrangements of the Program were less efficient than under previous SALs.
Whereas the MPAT was fairly well equipped to manage economic reforms, its expertise was limited in
such areas as the civil service reform. Furthermore, the MPAT occasionally experienced a conflict of
interest (reorganization of the economic ministries, reform of budgetary procedures) which affected its
ability to exercise independent judgment and effective leadership.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The overall outcome of SAL IV was unsatisfactory, largely because of the major political crisis
that Togo experienced between 1991 and 1994. Moreover, the institutional reform aspects of the
program were planned in concept and thus foreshadowed the lack of long-term impact that SAL IV
was to produce in public sector management. Concerning human resources development, policy
instruments developed and reform measures initiated are likely to have a lasting positive impact, thanks
to the improvements in the formulation and monitoring of social policy. Moreover, it is clear that the
strong private sector-led recovery of the economy started in 1994 would not have been possible
without the substantial liberalization of the Togolese economy that took place under the SAL process.
H.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   In addition to confirming that political uncertainty and unrest make it impossible for a country
to pursue its structural adjustment efforts effectively, Togo's experience in the period from 1990
through 1994 brought the following lessons:
a)    Signs of commitment to reforms. During the preparation of a SAL, one should keep in mind
that the willingness to undertake studies provides no guarantee as to the commitment to implement
reforms. The objective and in-depth analysis of the resistance to reforms are essential.
b)    Limits of SALs as an instrument of institutional reform. Second, structural adjustment credits
do not appear to be particularly well-suited for supporting the implementation of institutional reforms,
such as the reorganization of ministries, which require a continuous effort over a period longer than the
planned disbursement periods of SALs.
c)    Need for a comprehensive approach to public resource management reforms. In a genuine
attempt to introduce transparency in public resource management, SAL IV focused on the introduction
in the PIP of phosphate counter-trade expenditure. General budget execution worsened significantly
with the tightening of the fiscal situation in 1992 and its collapse in 1993 (see para. 11). In retrospect,
SAL IV should have addressed the issue of public resource management in a comprehensive way
(unified budget framework, budget execution procedures, links between investment and current
expenditure).



11
d)    Supervision of SALs. The role of a resident mission is crucial when a country faces serious
political troubles. In addition, maintaining a vehicle for policy reform even under times of political
strain and uncertainty may prove to be a good decision, which allows the Bank and the borrower to
lose no time in finding a basis for direct dialogue as soon as calm is restored.
e)    Relations between Togo and the Bank. Because the Program did not achieve most of its
institutional reform objectives, institutional shortcomings still represent one of the principal
impediments to the countrys development. Consequently, in addition to macroeconomic stability, the
provision of basic health and education services, and the rehabilitation of essential infrastructure, the
topics of institutional adjustment and governance should be emphasized in the dialogue between the
Bank and the Togolese authorities. Discussions should cover the management of public finance, civil
service reform, reforms in the two or three most important public enterprises, and the distribution of
roles between the central government and decentralized structures. The recent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Togo dated June 2, 1995, highlights these items. The proposed Economic
Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC) is being designed to restore macroeconomic stability and to
pursue the PES reform in key enterprises, including the opening of OTP's capital to private
participation.



12
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
A. Achievemcnt of obiectives by       Up to the Second Tranche            Sustainabilty
component
Public Finance                               Substantial                     Likely
Public Sector Management                       Partial                      Uncertain
Public Enterprise Reform                     Substantial                     Likely
Industrial Sector                              Partial                      Uncertain
Agricultural Sector                            Partial                      Uncertain
Human Resource Development                   Substantial                     Likely
C. Bank performance                         Satisfactory                    Deficient
Identification                                   X
Preparation assistance                           X
Appraisal: economic and social                   X
aspects
Appraisal: institutional aspects                                               X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower performance                     Satisfactory                    Deficient
Preparation: economic and social                 X
aspects
Preparation: institutional aspects                                             X
Implementation                                                                 X
Covenant compliance up to second                 X
tranche release
HiLghly
Hizhly Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv   Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                                                  X



13
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit title                    Purpose                   Year of      Status
anproval
Preceding operations
1 SAL 1                         Financial stabilization and    1983   Closed
economic reforms
2 SAL 2                         Financial stabilization and    1985    Closed
economic reforms
3 Third Technical. Assist. TA IlI   Economic management   1985         Closed
4 Private Enterprise Promotion  Private sector development  1987       Closed
5 SAL 3                         Financial stabilization and    1988   Closed
economic reforms
6 Cotton III                    Rural development in      1988        Under SPN
cotton growing areas
7 Pre-Investment                Promotion of sound        1989        Under SPN
investment projects
8 Grassroots Development        Grassroots development    1989        Under SPN
Initiative                      and poverty alleviation
9 Vocational education training  Support to vocational    1990        Under SPN
training
Following operations
I Population and Health         Improvement of health care  1991      Under SPN
Adjustment                      services
2 Lome Urban Development        Improvement of urban      1994        Under SPN
infrastructures. Poverty
alleviation through labor
intensive public works.



14
Table 3: Program Timetable
Stepsinprocessingrand                                   Date planned                                 Actual date
implementation                          _                                          _         _ :_                     _
Identification                                      . November 1989                               November 1989
.....................................:............... ......................................... .................................... ..................................................................................
Main preparation mission                            . April 1990                                  Apnrl 1990
..........    ......   ............................ ............... ...........    .............................................................  ..... ................................
Appraisal mission                                    YJul 1990                                    July 1990
Negotiations                                          October 1990                                October 1990
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .........  ..........................................................................   ....... . . .. . .. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . .. . ..
Letter of development policy                        ..July 1990                                   July 1990
......................................... ................  ........   ..........................  ...............................................................  ................................
Board presentation                                    December 1990                               December 1990
Signing.. December 1990                                                                          December 1990
... ......  .    .......................................................  ..........................................................................  ..........................................................................
Effectiveness                                         December 1990                               December 1990
............................................................................................    .....................................  .....................................
First tranche release                                 December 1990                               December 1990
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Second tranche release                                October 1991                                July 1994
Third tranche release                                 December 1992                               Canceled
Program completion                                    1992                                        1994
......    ........... .  ..............................  .................................................................................................................  
Credit closing                                      . March 31, 1993                              May 4, 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US Dollars thousands)
FY91                 FY92                  FY93                   FY94                 FY95
Appraisal estimates                 25,000                40,000                55,000                55,000                55,000
Actual                              22,031                24,717                24,717                24,717                40,810
Actual as % of                          88                   62                    45                    45                    74
estimates
Date of final                                                                                                              July 28,
disbursement                                                                                                                 1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not Applicable



aloqeildde lou = Ce u,,:HN
SIUQUfmOoI WuwunlaAOD Me1OM  Pug OI-L6S-d oN liodad 'wq plPoA, ;ujj LsaoinoS
9'tZ-               S'E81-                Z'Z                  6'0         .       t'61                                   '
Z'Ot                b6                   t'8                 6'6Z    ,             eu                Iweod                   OUaIueg  muid
...............     ................     ..............................................  ................    ........      ......    ........
Z1                  6                    66                 E11                  8ZI                  1efV             i         amipusax3
SI    i    9tb1                          6!                  Z1                                                                              Ould
S9         i        8                   EL                   6L.                 001         -fi       Ml1'V
tt1    i   ~~~61                    K t1                 tZI                                     W eu   0uOd                O nuAaal IloL
............ .......             ............................                 .......... :~   ......     .........................  .........................................
t1661                661                 Z661                 1661         i       0661         1
(suoillpq Vue. J) .            ueeg IAIMuud 'Tpua&xg anuxAO - auuu, luuunaoj :(p) 9 aIqlj-
sjajsuLe.z piaduo aojoag*
i   ,       j                   ,                    j                         *'           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(suol!tnu
091-       ti 8-                         611-                  S L-        ii      9c1-                  MM en              $sri)        *IlOYO(
SZI-                601-                    11-I                8ZI-                   uuW2od                                lunoooV  1ualmD
............. ............... ..................................................................... ................     . ....    Il   .................
8'-                 lL-                  Z'6-                 0'8-                8 11                    wYV                        dD JO %
S'L-  *   S'L-         i      ~~~~Z'8-               Z'6-        i          u         i      ureuB0d            i u    aoueme    oPejj
...... ..................................   ....................................... .............................. ..................................... ........... ........................................
t'661                 661        *,      Z661                 1661                  066T
liooa junooov luaun3 pue wuuug opepj :(o) 9 o1qeL
0'001                      0'001                       0'001                       0'001                      0'001                                d09
L,Ot                       8-                                                        - --- -  8 
.............  ........................ .....................,  , .............................  .................... 
V'IZ            ,          S81              .          S'ZZ                        8 8Z                      S'Z                          scpoa
6L                        LS1                         19                           9 Z                     Li IUfI
.................................................. 9 i................  ................... 9.................. ........................................ .........................................
t661                       661             .            661                       1661                       0661
(daD luatmJO ove1Uoo.id Ua) S;fI,AT oV  o'paS rq dI  :(q) g ajqej
L'01                       S'1-                       L'E-                        6'0-                        1'0                              1 l VW
.................................................. ........................................ ........................................ ........................................  ........  ......................
I'8't L                                                                                                                       . 8i J2Jd
.........................................  .....................................    ......................    ........................................    .......................  .....................
b661                       661             I          Z661                        1661                        0661
aseai3uJ azeluaOO1d dUO 1ea 1e'i'V :(e) 9 5rqfij
t6-0661 aRuwJOJJad ;!uouo0oa0XuN :sio)Va!pul Cax :9 alquj



16
Table 7: Studies Included in the Program
Study                   Purpose                Status           Impact
Diagnostic study of    Contribute to enhancing the  Completed    Little impact at the
the 3 key economic    capacity of the ministries                 end of 1994.
ministries          through recommendations on                   Analysis and
mandates, organization                      recommendations
structures, staffing plans, and             could be exploited
priority work programs                      in the coming years
Study of the civil   Medium evolution and control   Completed    Helped clean up of
service              of the civil service and     with a reduced  payroll and its
functional factors affecting its   scope    reconciliation with
efficiency                                  civil service roaster
Diagnostic studies   To determine actions required    Substantially    Substantial impact
and audits of        for divestiture and the definition  completed  on enterprises
individual public    of the appropriate action                   concerned. The
enterprises (including                                           audit of OTP and
the audit of OTP,                                                 OPAT provided
OPAT, and CNSS in                                                was instrumental for
1992)                                                            a broader economic
policy dialogue
Table 8A: Project costs
Not Applicable
Table 8B: Project Financing
Not Applicable
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants: Second Tranche Release Conditions
L  Specific Condition                                    Comments
1. A three-year rolling PIP for 1991-93 (including  Condition met. Agreement on PIP 1991-93. Conclusive
investments to be financed with the proceeds of  joint PIP reviews conducted in 1991 and 1992. Political
phosphate counter-trade) acceptable to IDA.      disturbances prevented yearly review in 1993. PIP for
1994 approved by IDA with 1994-96 PFP discusions.
2. Agreement with IDA on 1991 budgetary allocations  Condition met. Annual budgetary allocations to
for agriculture, education, and health sectors, and for    recurrent expenditures for agriculture, education, and
road maintenance.                                health sectors and for road maintenance in 1991 and
1992 current budgets reviewed and approved by IDA
and adequately executed for health and education.
3. A new procurement code has been enacted.      Condition met. New procurement code satisfactory to
IDA. Promulgated in August 1993 by Presidential
Order Number 93-006/PR.
4 (a) An Action Plan based on the recommendations of   Condition met in a formal sense. Diagnostic studies
the diagnostic studies for the reorganization of the  including organizational audits were completed and
Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Commerce has   action plans prepared for the three ministries. However,
been adopted and the implementation of the said action  there were no substantial progress in the actual
plan has commenced.                              reorganization of the ministries.
4 (b) A diagnostic study to improve the efficiency of the  Condition met. Scope of study reduced. However, action
civil service has been executed, an action plan based on  plan discussed with IDA in 1992. Civil service census
the said study has been adopted and the implementation  carried out in May 1992. Reconciliation of payroll data
of said action plan has commenced.               and civil service roster initiated.
5 (a) and 5 (b) - A law establishing the new     Condition met. New law enacted in 1990 (Law No 90-
institutional and legal framework for public     26) and implementing decree issued in 1991 (Decree No
enterprises has been enacted. - Implementing decree    91-197).
for said law has been issued.
5 (c) The statutes of twelve selected public enterprises    Condition met. The statutes of 9 out of the 12
have been revised.                               enterprises have been revised in line with the provision
of the law. Two enterprises have been listed for
liquidation. The last one, will become an independent
mutualist association.
5 (d) Substantial progress has been achieved in the  Condition substantially met. (Paras. 19 and 20)
implementation of the liquidation and privatization
program.
6. An Action Plan including specific measures to  Condition substantially met. (Paras. 25 and 26)
improve the standards of living and productivity of the
poorest segments of the Togolese population has been
adopted and the implementation of said action plan has
commenced.
7. Satisfactory arrangements have been mnade to ensure   Condition met. A satisfactory contract with a
preshipment inspection of goods imported into the  preshipment inspection company was signed in March
Borrower's territories.                           1994.



18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of the Program      Actual Staff Weeks
Through appraisal              83.3
Appraisal through Board           42.2
Supervision                 143.2
Completion                  10.0



19
Table 13: Bank resources: Missions
Perf.       Perf.
Number   Days   Specialized staff   rating:       rating:
Stage of the    Month/   of persons  in field       skills       imple-      develop.    Types of
Program         year                           represented      mentat.    impact    problems
Through appraisal
. Identification  11/09      4          8        CE, SS, CO       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
. Preparation     04/90      5           17      CE, PSM,CO       n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
. Appraisal       07/90      5           14      CE,LEG,CO        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Appraisal - Board
approv.
"NONEM"
Board approv. -
effectiveness
"NONE"
Supervision
06/91      1          8        ME               3           2           P
. Full            11/91      1           14      PSM              n.r.        n.r.         n.a.
. Partial         02/92      1          2        SS               n.r.        n.r.         n.a
Partial          03/92      1          8        ME               3           2            P
.Full             08/92      2           14      ME,CO            3           2           P
Full             05/93      1           13      ME                3           2          P
. Full            11/93      4           16      ME,FIN,FISC      n.r.        n.r.        P
. Full            02/94      5           13      ME,PSM,ED        n.r.        n.r.         n.r.
. Full
Completion
03/95      1           17      CO/PSM           n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
.Compl._M iss.   _  _ _  _    _ _ _ _    _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _  _ _    _  _ _ _
Staff skills: CO = country officer; ED = enterprise development specialist;
FIN = financial sector specialist; PSM = public sector management specialist;
SS = social sector specialist
Types of problem: P = political violence and social unrest
Other: n.a. = not applicable; n.r. = no rating



APPENDIXES
A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire (with an English Summary)
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (to be forwarded)
C. Policy Statement by the Togolese Government (Summary and Conclusions)
D. Policy Matrix



TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM - SAL IV
(CREDIT 2194-TO)
COMPLETION MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
English Summary
A mission visited Togo in February/March 1995 to conduct a retrospective
evaluation of SAL IV implementation. The main findings of the Mission included the
following:
(a) political turmoil over the 1991-94 period has been a major factor with a severe adverse
impact on the implementation of SAL IV;
(b) some institutional constraints and the malfunctioning of the public sector were
accurately described, but were not adequately addressed in SAL IV program design. This
suggests that the Government commitment to reforms was limited in such areas as budget
preparation and execution procedures, the reorganization of key economic ministries, and
reform of the civil service;
(c) the overall outcome of SAL IV was unsatisfactory largely because the political crisis of
the 1991-94 period prevented implementation of key reforms and seriously weakened the
economy. However, SAL IV has had some impact on the public enterprise sector and on
the country's capacity to formulate and implement social policies.
Before departing from Lome on March 8, 1995, the Completion Mission reviewed
ICR preparation procedures with Government representatives, and discussed the
arrangements and timetable for the preparation of the Borrower contribution.



1
T O G O
QUATRIEME PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
CREDIT IDA 2194-TO
MISSION D'EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE
(F6vrier/ Mars 1995)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
1.         Dans le cadre de la pr6paration du rapport
d'achevement de programme (le rapport d'achevement), une
mission de la Banque mondiale compos6e de M. Manga KUOH,
Charg6 d'Op6rations Principal, a s6journ6 au Togo du 8 au 19
f6vrier et du 2 au 8 mars 1995.
2.         L'objet de la mission 6tait de proceder a une
evaluation retrospective du quatrieme programme d'ajustement
structurel (PAS IV ou le Programme) et notamment d'apprecier
(i) dans quelle mesure les reformes economiques et
institutionnelles inscrites au PAS IV ont et6 mises en oeuvre
et (ii) si ces r6formes se sont r6v6lees pertinentes pour
resoudre les problemes qui avaient ete identifi6s.
3.         La mission a men6 ses travaux sous la coordination
du Ministere du Plan et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire (MPAT).
Elle a eu des seances de travail avec les cadres des
ministeres de 1'Economie et des Finances (MEF), de l'Industrie
et des Sociftes d'Etat (MISE), de 1'Emploi, du Travail et de
la Fonction Publique (METFP). Une seance de synthese a eu lieu
le 8 Mars 1995 avec le Comit6 interminist6riel restreint
charg6 de la coordination et du suivi du PAS IV. La mission a
egalement eu des entretiens avec des personnes en dehors de
l' administration.
PRINCIPALES CONCLUSIONS DE LA MISSION
4.         Un facteur maleur : les remous politiques. Il
ressort tout d'abord que les ev6nements politiques qui ont
secoue le Togo de 1991 a 1994 ont radicalement modifie les
conditions dans lesquelles le PAS IV a ete execute. La realite



2
a 6t6 sans rapport avec le cadre macro-6conomique de
croissance pr6vu au moment du lancement du Programme comme ein
t6moignent la baisse continue du PIB sur trois ans et la
r6duction de pres du tiers des recettes de l'Etat.
5.        Peu de proqres en matiere de reforme
institutionnelle. Si tous les volets du PAS IV ont 6te
affect6s par les evenements, ils ne l'ont pas 6te au meme
degr6. Le programme de d6sengagement de l'Etat des activites
de production et de commercialisation a, par exemple, connu
des r6sultats appreciables. La mission a cependant invite les
responsables du MISE a prendre les dispositions necessaires
afin de permettre une appreciation des effets r6els de la
reforme du secteur des entreprises publiques sur l'6conomie
et, notamment, les finances publiques.
6.        On observe peu de progres d'une maniere generale
dans tous les axes de r6forme institutionnelle : gestion des
finances publiques, reorganisation des principaux ministeres
economiques, r6forme de la fonction publique.
7.        Conception du programme et volont6 de r6forme. Le
diagnostic sous-jacent a la conception du PAS IV 6tait clair,
et correspondait a la situation du Togo en 1989/90. Toutefois,
dans la formulation des actions a mener, le Programme semble
avoir eu des objectifs timides en matiere institutionnelle. Il
est regrettable, par exemple, que le PAS IV n'ait pas retenu
au moins l'objectif d'unification des differents budgets de
1'Etat.
8.        Par ailleurs le Programme favorisait la
r6organisation de diff6rentes structures ministerielles
consid6rees isolement et accordait une grande place a la
conduite de diverses etudes par opposition a l'introduction
effective des changements requis. Cette d6marche qui refletait
un certain realisme face aux r6sistances du moment, traduisait
aussi vraisemblablement une volonte politique peu affirm6e de
mener des reformes dans le vaste champ de la gestion publique.
Au vu des resultats et des actions men6es avant comme apres la
periode de troubles, lespoir nourri par certaines autorites
et les partenaires exterieurs de voir les analyses et
conclusions des 6tudes elargir et consolider le consensus
politique en faveur de reformes institutionnelles majeures,
aura eu un faible echo.
9.        Incidence et effets a long terme du Programme. Le
PAS IV aura une incidence certaine en termes de d6sengagement
relatif de l'Etat des activit6s 6conomiques. On peut aussi
consid6rer que l'attention accrue apportee aux aspects sociaux
dans l'elaboration et la mise en oeuvre des politiques et des
programmes d'investissement restera un acquis pour
l'administration togolaise. Pour les autres volets du
Programme, les effets combin6s des objectifs peu ambitieux du
Programme et des evenements politiques auront consid6rablement
r6duit l'incidence a long terme du PAS IV sur la r6alite de
l1'conomie togolaise et sur son mode de gestion.



3
10.       Les enseiQnements du PAS IV. La mission a indiqu6
qu'il lui 6tait difficile de pr6senter les enseignements a
tirer de l'exp6rience du PAS IV dans la mesure ou elle n'a pas
encore termin6 l'analyse de diverses informations ni, encore
moins, proc6d6 a la synthese de ses travaux.
11.       Cependant, la section du rapport d'achevement de la
Banque relative aux enseignements du PAS IV discutera
vraisemblablement des deux points suivants parmi d'autres:
-    l'importance, au moment de la pr6paration d'une
op6ration, d'appr6cier de maniere precise les r6formes
que le Gouvernement est effectivement en mesure de
traduire dans la realit6;
-    l' importance de concevoir le mode de gestion d'une
op6ration donn6e de maniere suffisamment souple pour
faciliter la prise en charge des r6formes par les
d6partements concern6s et, en meme temps, bien adapt6e au
enjeux des r6formes afin de permettre les implusions et
les arbitrages au niveau approprie.
PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE PROGRAMME
12.       La mission a rappel6 les proc6dures relatives a
1'6valuation r6trospective des op6rations soutenues par la
Banque et a la pr6paration des rapports d'achevement. A
notamment et6 soulign6e la n6cessit6 pour les administrateurs
de la Banque de pouvoir examiner en meme temps l'evaluation
r6trospective du programme par le personnel de la Banque et
celle effectu6e par l'Emprunteur.
13.       L'6valuation de l'Emprunteur. Les responsables
togolais ont fait savoir que les dispositions n6cessaires
seraient prises dans les prochains jours sous la coordination
du MPAT afin de preparer l'evaluation r6trospective du PAS IV
par la partie togolaise. La mission a suggere que, pour la
legerete du rapport d'achevement qui regroupera les deux
6valuations (de l'Emprunteur et de la Banque) avec la
D6claration de politique de d6veloppement du 13 juillet 1990,
l'evaluation de l'Emprunteur s'abstienne de reprendre la
description detaill6e du Programme et qu'elle porte
directement sur l'appr6ciation des r6sultats et des conditions
d'execution des diff6rents volets du PAS IV ainsi que du
Programme dans son ensemble.
14.       Calendrier pour la sortie du rapport d'achevement.
La mission a indique que l'objectif du departement de
l'Afrique Occidentale-Centrale 6tait de soumettre le rapport
d'achevement au Conseil d'Administration avant la fin du mois
de Juin 1995. A cette fin, le calendrier suivant a et6 6tabli:
15 mars         Lancement effectif de la preparation de
l'6valuation de 1'Emprunteur;



4
31 mars         Transmission par la Banque au Gouvernement d'un
avant-projet de rapport d'achevement comprenant
1'6valuation de la Banque;
15 avril        Transmission par le Gouvernement a la Banque de
1'6valuation de 1'Emprunteur et de ses
commentaires sur l'avant-projet de rapport de
la Banque.
Fait a Lom6, le 8 Mars 1995



1
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND MINES                    TOGOLESE REPUBLIC
-----------------                           Unity-Peace-Solidarity
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PLANNING
AND DEVELOPMENT
POLICY STATEMENT BY THE TOGOLESE GOVERNMENT
CONCERNING THE FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
July 13, 1990



2
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Government's economic and social development program for 1990-92 is
designed to restore growth. expand employment, improve income distribution and
protect the most vulnerable population groups, on which financial
stabilization and structural adjustment programs have not put sufficient
emphasis, despite their very positive effects in numerous sectors. The
program has three principal economic objectives: to support growth, keep the
rate of inflation low and reduce the current account deficit. Therefore, the
new policies are intended to eliminate persistent structural rigidities, in
order to remove obstacles to economic development and stimulate growth led by
the agriculture, light industry and trade sectors.
The objective in the area of the public finances will be to reduce the
deficit as a proportion of GDP. The Government will aim to increase State
receipts, in particular by expanding the tax base. Efforts in the field of
public expenditure will concentrate on enhancing its effectiveness,
strengthening the administration of taxation and controlling personnel costs
more closely. The Government will also focus on playing a catalytic role vis-
a-vis other sources of financing for such activities as the Local and
Participatory Development Program (joint contributions from the State, the
communities concerned, NGOs, etc.).
Improving Togo's economic management capability and expanding its
absorptive capacity are two essential objectives of the adjustment program.
The Government intends to introduce an institution-building program to reform
and strengthen its economic and financial departments and the planning units
established in the technical ministries. Diagnostic studies of the Ministry
of Planning, the Ministry of the Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Trade
and Transportation will be undertaken in 1990 with World Bank assistance in
order to prepare a program of actions to strengthen management capacity in
these ministries. To improve absorptive capacity, the Government intends to
introduce reforms in the shape of a Public Contracts Code and the
rationalization of procedures for the preparation, approval and execution of
contracts.
Given the role of women in Togolese society, measures will be taken to
facilitate their integration into the development process, and specifically to
promote the access of girls and women to training, provide women with the
material and financial resources they need to develop their activities, and
incorporate their concerns in all development projects.
The expansion of employment is a major Government concern. Although the
adjustment strategy pursued by the authorities since 1982 has helped to lay
the foundations for sustained long-term development and growth, a prerequisite
for improved social conditions, the measures taken to rehabilitate the public
finances and restructure the parastatal sector, while necessary, have
nevertheless had negative effects. Energetic steps must therefore be taken to
promote employment and thereby provide work for the young people entering the
labor market each year, especially young graduates. The authorities thus
intend to expand employment by setting up young farmers or artisans, promoting
highly labor-intensive activities, taking measures to support private sector



3
development and creating industrial free zones. The Government will also
introduce an employment policy in the civil service and define a consistent
approach to technical cooperation so as to ensure that national personnel
replace expatriate technical assistants.
Rural development and the rehabilitation and maintenance of economic and
social infrastructure are still the priorities in Togo's public investment
program. To ensure proper execution of this program, the Government will take
steps to improve project preparation and strengthen project appraisal and
monitoring procedures, within both the Ministry of Planning (DGPD) and the
technical ministries (planning units).
The thrust of agricultural policy will be to improve production
incentives and increase sector productivity as a result of higher investment
in agriculture and more effective extension services, which henceforward will
be oriented more toward farmers. Where cash crops are concerned, the
Government intends to promote the diversification of Togo's output and retain
a flexible system for fixing prices that are compatible with world market
conditions, in light of processing and marketing costs. Steps will also be
taken to increase the efficiency of OPAT operations.
The State will limit its role with regard to food crops to managing
buffer stocks (TOGOGRAIN) and will promote the development of crops that can
provide permanent food self-sufficiency and generate cereal surpluses for
export. The dissemination of research findings will be expanded and
particular attention will be paid to increasing livestock production.
In the field of rural credit, it has been decided to liquidate the
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). Studies are under way with a view
to replacing it with a more flexible and efficient organization.
In the industrial sector, the Government has set up free industrial
zones and adopted tariff reforms and the new investment code in order to
encourage investment and production, diversify output and exports, and promote
SHEs.
Meanwhile the program to restructure, privatize and liquidate State
enterprises will continue, with State participation in industrial and
commercial activities being reduced as far as possible.
To develop Togo's important role in subregional trade the Government
will maintain its policy of liberalizing commercial activities and opening the
economy to the outside world.
In the field of general education, the Government will before October
1992 adopt an education and training policy whose objectives will be to
improve conditions for students, increase the enrollment rate and enhance the
efficiency of the education system. Subject to budgetary constraints, the
Government intends to increase allocations to the education sector, especially
its expenditure on equipment and materials. Courses will be revised,
especially at the primary level, to incorporate subjects focusing on future
employment possibilities (agriculture, artisanal activities ...) and on basic



4
needs (health education, etc.). Actions in the area of technical education
and vocational training will be aimed at raising the skills level of
instruction and reforming training methods with a view to obtaining a better
match between training and employment.
The Government will pursue its policy of rehabilitating and maintaining
existing economic infrastructure. The introduction of highway maintenance
teams will help to keep the road network in good condition. Access for the
entire population to potable water is a Government priority. Activities in
the area of urban water supplies include the second phase of the Lome potable
water scheme and execution of works at Tchamba, Dapaong and Sokode. The plans
for village water supplies include continuing the program to install water
points and involving beneficiary groups in pump maintenance; the latter will
also become partially responsible for equipment maintenance.
In the urban development, housing and sanitation sector, the Government
intends to extend the urban development program to towns in the interior,
promote housing construction through the dissemination of appropriate
technologies and utilization of local materials, and introduce a sanitation
scheme at Lome to resolve the problems posed by the increasingly frequent
floods in the capital.
Togo will continue to exploit its hydroelectric resources (Adjaralla
dam), while action will be taken to protect the environment and develop forest
assets (reforestation, introduction of agri-forest crop systems and
distribution of improved stoves). Research on new and renewable energies will
be continued.
In health, emphasis will be placed on improving services, strengthening
structures, training personnel, improving the supply of medications and small
equipment, and expanding access to health care. While promoting universal
access to health services, the Government will also engage in sensitization to
ensure that beneficiaries help to defray recurrent costs.
Aware of the importance of demographic factors, the Government will take
account of their impact on development and will prepare a national population
policy.
Finally, the Government is concerned to improve the living conditions
and standards of Togo's population, especially for the most deprived social
groups. This concern is manifest throughout the Government's entire
development strategy, in both its macroeconomic and sectoral aspects.
However, to make its social objectives even more consistent and to soften the
impact of the macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment measures to be undertaken,
the Government intends to prepare and introduce, with the support of donors, a
'Social Dimensions of Adjustment" program. The particular purpose of the
program will be to mitigate the temporary negative effects of certain
adjustment measures, protect the most vulnerable groups and incorporate them
better into the development process.



TOGO
POURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATR1X                                             Page I of 9
Policy Objectives    Measures Taken Under SAL HI      SAL IV Measures                 Monitorable Actions     Tuning
L PUBLIC
RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
A. Public            Consolidasion of three year PIP    Increase in public invetments to    A,nrval by the Bank    Marci 1991
Investment Program    and oxientation of investments  over S percent of GDP based on    of threc-year public
towards sectors psunoting       improved project selection and  investment grorarn for
Increases in quality    growth, based on nnual reviews    enhanced rate of execution (see  1991-93. including
of public investmenl   of PIP with the Bank and the   below) in context of continuation   phosphate counterade-
program.             AfDB. Calculation of recurrent    of roling three-year investment    funanced invcstments.*
costs for largest public sector  program. Orientation of public  ConsulLations with the
Increases in level of   investments                   investnent towards rural        Bank to initiating any
public investments                                    developnent, and rebabilitation  investments not
consistent with real                                  and mAintnance of econanic and  included in the
growth requirements.                                  social infrastructures.         approved PIP.
Institutional reinforc.nent to
improve quality of investment   Increased use of
programming (see below).        PreinvestFnent Fund to   1990-92
improve quality of
Improved transparency of        public investment
investnent budgeting through    portfolio through pre-
inclusion in PIP of all         feasibility and
investments fnanced tburugh     feasibility studics.
phosphate oountertrade
Initiate a study on the    1990
consolidation of all
public expenditurs.
including those by
public enterprises, in a
single budget
beginning in 1992.
Approval by the Bank    Marcb 1992
of three-year public
investment oroaratn for
1992-94 nldn
Rhos2hate countertrade-
financed investments.
Execution of relevant
norton of 1991-93 PIP
as envisioned **
Consultations with the
Bank prior to initiating
any investments not
included in the
approved PIP.
B. Improvement of   Simplification of procedures and    Reduction in nmber of onntrt   Increase in thresholds    October
Absorptive Capacity   contmcts for the public        requiring administative review   goveming approval of    1990
prcurounent of goods and        aid diminution in number of      public sector cotracts.
Enhanced ate of      seices and the adoption of       steps involved in administrative
exectition of pubic   umifoan muls for the prepartion    review process.              Submission to the
investment program   of thee conata.                                                  Bank of model           1991
contract for public
bidding and description
of measurs for its
dissemination among
ministries.
* Second tanche releas oodition
00 Third trace release condition



TOGO
FOURTH STRUCIURAL ADWUSTMENT CRED1T
POLICY MATRIX                                               Page 2 of 9
Policy Objeaives      Measures Taken Under SAL m        SAL IV Meures                     Monitorable Actions     Timing
L PUBLIC                                                                                  Implement measures to   1991
RESOURCE                                                                                  phase payments to
MANAGEMENT                                                                                project execution.
(CONT.)
Institional mechanisms to         El Doraion sn           October
incre efficiency of public        adootion of a public    1991
sector Procurement
Increed                                                 Anslysis of mechanisms to         Conclusion of sudy.     1991
acsountability in                                      include taes and duties on
public sector                                           donor-fmanced tmpons in public
coDucting                                               contracts.
B. Currnt            No increae in wage bill in rAl    Growth limited to less tsan 6      Wage levels in the      April 1991
Eqxndittu            terms. Dedine in overall number   peromt this year vith no ra        Policy Framework
of civil servasnu by 743.         increa  in 1991 and 1992.         Paper for 1991-93.
Iimiting wage
expnditue            Implementation of a computerized
civil service roter.
nglR   al suvd on       October
m.ediumn ten            1991
funcstional factors
iaffiny, efficienc
(see below .*
ImW==tnet action        October
* roeram based gn civil  1992
.ervicc study (see
bS1o2&**
Between 1987 and 1989 increased   Provision in 1991 and 1992        Atut curfent            Januuay
expenditurs on health and         budgeu of adequate levels of      exnenditure levels in   1991
education.                        current expenditures in the ameas   these areas in the 1991
of: agricukure, educaion, heh    budget (see blow).*
and mad mautnnce.
Adequate cuffent       J -u ry
exoenditure leveh in    1992
thee areas in the 1992
budeet (see below) and
saisfactr execution
of 1991 budge*
Seaomd  re    release condition
*Third trbce release conditica



TOGO
FOURTH STRUCrURAL AWUSTIENT CREDIT
POUCY MAThIX                                                Page 3 of 9
Policy Objectves      Measures Taken Under SAL III    SAL IV Measures                     Monitorable Actions     Timing
IL PUBUC
SECIOR
MANAGEMENT
Enhanced efficiency    Provision of tedmical assistance    Administrative reform of       To be addressed in the   1990-92
of public sector and    in Planning Ministry and Ministry   Ministries of Vocsiional and  context of sector-
reinforcement of      of Industry and State Enterprises    Tecbmical Education, Rural     specific 1DA projes.
capacity to formute  (MISE).                            Develaisnents and Healh.
and inplement
economic policies.    Administrative reforms of OPAT
and MISE, including new
organizational structures.
Reform and reinforcement of       Signature of a contract   Deoember
Ministries of Plaiing. Finance,    for in-depth dianostic   1990
and Conaer  to improve overall  study of these three
economic mnagemmn. ministries, analyzing
their mandata,
assessing their
capacities, and
identifying actions to
address institutional
deficiencies.
Based u2gn diaenostic    October
study. agreement on     1991
iiteed Drgerms o
actions to address
shoncomnings and
si mre of decrees for
reorganization of the
three ministries *
Cornpletion of sntdy    October
oan mediun termn        1991
evolution and control
of civil service
ezgenitumes and
funetional factors
affecting efficienc(se
above). *
mImotation of           October
- PPAs for the          1992
strcngthening of the
ministrie3s includingi
the raizationo
ernploMent plans, the
establishment of
infofnation systemns.
and the execution of
training 2oM=ams.**
fin2lementation of      October
action program based    1992
on civil service study
(see above])*
Second trndche reles condition
Third uance release coldition



T(M
POURTH STRUCTURAL ADIUSTMENT CREDrr
POLICY MATRIX                                              Page 4 of 9
Policy Objectives    Measures Taken Under SAL m       SAL IV Meaures                   Monitorable Actions    Tlming
M. PUBLIC
ENTEPRISES
3.1 Adminigtrative    Development of new              Implementation of new atncture    Placement of MSE      December
Reform               organizational structure of the  of MISE.                         naff in new             1990
MISE and related training                                         organizational
More efficient       program for MISE staff.                                           sticture; issuance of
oversight of public                                                                    regulations goveming
enterprises                                                                            functioning of the
Ministry.
3.2 Divestiture      Continuation of on-going progrun   Diventimur of six public       Liquidation or         December
Program              of divestiture. Review experience  enterprises remaining frorn firn  privatization of     1990
with divestitur and develop new    phase of the divenium  program.   remaining six finns.
suategy to guide next round of
divestiwm actions. Identification
of new phase of divestituTc
program.
Divesture of 18 public           Liquidation of CNCA    O
enteprises in scond phae of      and offer for sale of
divesiture pogram.               the Howls Miramar
and Tropicana.
ErBALTEX
SONAPH. SATAL
SOTONA
SONACOM and GTA.
CQDXglcaion of         Oaober
dangoosfic studiZs     1990
determining actions
Mauired for divatiture
and the definition of
a----D  te actiorns.*  hne 1991
2=rcgss in
imletto of
divestiture consistent  October
with  eed prom   of  1992
acoi .**
For the Braerie dAl
Benin BTCL BTD
SIT TOGOGAZ.
UPROMA and DMTB        March 1991
definition o
rocdures for sale of
govermnent dsha.*
inLress in
irnplmPntatio of
divestiture consistent
with areed             October
1992
* Second tanche releae ondition
** Third traucbe relea  condition



il        p|    9iSgi   till]5
|iI          I     1L11
2S           ']i1 *1:j
i       ii" 1*13  10111t



eW~~~~~~~~~~I                I.
ts~~~- a                                  IS    - - g if      a 2
0 q                                      -j3X    l  ;    i    t|Z
S~ ~ I~i ?                                       hip.5  i  ltli    ?T  3
S { ? ~~~i  u {l 5 ,3  55I 5 E5 5
N     .uuit   NT ]Js3              ft      



TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX                                             Page 7 of 9
Policy Objectives    Measumes Taken Under SAL DI     SAL IV Measures                  Monitorable Actions    Timing
V. AGRICULTURE
(CONT.)
5.2 Enhancement of  liberalization of exports of     Effective implenentation of      Inclusion of           1990
Marketing            foodstuffs within ECOWAS        policy to liberalize exports within  representatives from
Opporumnities for    regicn.                         ECOWAS region.                   the Customs and
Food Crops                                                                            Minmury of the Interior
in wurk of Committee
Enhanced incentives    Declaration of new policy to                                  to promnote non-
through exports.     pronote non-traditional exporLs                                traditional exports.
and creaion of cotnmittee to
propose recommendations to this
end.
Implementation of measures to   Completion of study of  1990
promote non-traditional exports.    Committee to promote
nt-4raditional expons.
Elaboration of an     March 1991
action program based
on Committee's work.
53  Better           Progressive elimination of      Improved provision of technical    Through IDA          1990-92
Distribution of      fertilizer subsidies in cotton  services thrugh reorganizaticn of  Agricultural Services
Agricultsral Inputs    production.                   Agricultural Ministry.           project.
Enhancing                                            Development of a sustainable     Study of fertilizer    December
productivity through                                 system for distzibution of       distribution system,   1990
reform of agriculaural                               fertilizers to the non-cotton   including prices, timing
inpuu systems.                                       setor.                           of delivery, choice of
formulas.
Development of an     December
action program to      1991
improve fenflizer
distribution to the non-
cotton sector.
5.4 Reconstitution   Decision to liquidate CNCA,     Implementation of liquidation of    Appointment of     September
of rural credit      subject to agreement on principles  CNCA.                        liquidator for CNCA.    1990
system              for new rurl credit sysenm.
Elaboration of basic  September
Enhancing farmers'                                                                    principles to govem    1990
access to capital                                                                     new rual credit
through creation of                                                                   system.
sustainable rural
credit sysnem
VL HUMAN
RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT
6.1 Education        Development of a stategy to     Implenmentation of eforon of     Monitored in IDA       1990-92
rform technical and vocational    technical education  ystem    Technical Education
education to mom closely match                                  Project
training with market needs.
Secd tunnche release oondition
** Third tanche reese condition



TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSIMENT CREDIT
POUCY MATRIX                                              Page S of 9
Policy Objectivs     Meur  Taken Under SAL m          SAL IV Meuurs                    Monitorable Actions    Timing
VL  HUMAN                                             Roieuaztion of education         A, arovl by the Bank   eary 1991
RESOURCE                                              ezpenditus towards basic         of the levd and
DEVELOPMENT                                           education with increaed          CGmpoSiOn of current
(CONT.)                                               expenditures on materials.       excnditures in the
Budeet for 1991.0
Arval byv the Bank   cary 1992
of the lev and
c-n-osition of curent
expenditures in the
Butdge for 192 
Development of an overall       Iniiation of analytic   March 1991
general education strategy      work underlying
focussing on educational needs,    smtegy.
fmancing rquinments, and
distibuio  of budgazy           Completion of strtegy.  end 1991
esources within the general
educaton sector.
6.2 Health           Eabor an of srtegy in health    Rationalization of health care    To be monitored in the   1990-92
ad population ars, including     delivy sysem. emphasizing       context of IDA's
necesay admistnrative            decentralized prowision of prmbuy   Healh Sector
rcrgusiz thion                   health care services.            Adjustment ProjecL
Increaed awreness of populaticn   Adopdon of National    Ocober
iusues.                         Poplation Policy        1990
Strategy-
Increased expenditurs on health    Armr-ova by the Bank    ealy 1991
services a   increaed piion     of the le   and
for non-peronnel exenditures in   comosition of health
the health sector budget.       sector exRenditures in
the 1,91 Budget.*
Aporval by the Bank   euay 1992
of the left] and
comnosition of healt
sector expenditures in
the 1992 Budsa.**
VIL SOCIAL
DlMENSIONS OF
ADJUSTMENT
Inanpamtiaa    of    Pronmoin of mali-scale puoecs   Developraqt of new institutional   Inworpoation of socia    October
somal dAions of   dutrgh promns o local and           medacnisms to inoDrpoamte socil   dimensions of          1990
adjusnme  in policy   paticipay develdopnt and        considerations in policy         adjustment within the
seetion Mnd          grs toots devlqmaenL             formulation.                     mandate of the C3R.
imnplementation Of                                                                     CmaCtion of working
measue to addnu                                                                        groups on different
social dinauiog of                                                                    aqscts of SDA.
adjustment.
* Second tance rel   amdition
0  Tbird Uthe relenu  cadition



|l~~~~~~~~i |l L!
tSt!~                    iiSZi 0f i  [  |t
I"    I












I M. A;1 fl-G
Repcort No:           147 2-'
Type: I(CRp



