ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Repot N. P-5397-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 39.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
NOVEMBER 15, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipien only in the peformance of
their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoriation.



I
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAP) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating. The rate
of CFAF 260 to the US dollar is used for the economic projections
beginning 1991.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CIMAO     Ciment4ries de l'Afrique de l'ouest
CIR       Comit6 Interministeriel Restreint de Suivi du Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel
CIS       Comit6 Interministeriel de Suivi du Programme d'Adjustment
Structurel
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CNSS      Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
CPSPP     Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Produits
Petroliers
DRDR      Direction Regionale de Developpement Rural
EC        European Communities
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
3SAP      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA       International Development Association
IFDC      International Fertilizer Distribution Center
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IPPA      Integrated Program of Priority Actions
MISE      Ministere de l'Industrie et des Societds d'Etat
NGO       Nongovernmental Organizations
OPAT      Office de Produits Agricoles Togolais
OTP       Office Togolais des Phosphates
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PIP       Public Investment Program
SAL       Structural Adjustment Lending
SDA       Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SEMP      Service d'Engrais et de Moyens de Production
SONACOM   SociEt4 Nationale de Commerce
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WANU      West African Monetary Union
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF TOGO           FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page
Credit Summary                                                           i
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY            1
A.   Background .................................................1
B.  Adjustment Process ............. .........        .            ... 2
C.   Central Development Issues .....      ................        9
D.   Bank Group Operations     ....... . ...............          11
E.   Country Lending Strategies and Priorities    .........       13
F.   Criteria for Evaluating Progress .    .................      14
G.   Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF .......          15
H.   Snmmary Assessment ..     ..............................     15
PART II - THE SAL IV PROGRAM 1990-92 ................. .......         16
A.   Public Finance ........      ............................    17
B.   Public Sector Management ......   ....................       20
C.   Public Enterprise Sector .     .........................     23
D.   Industrial Sector ... ....     ..........................    24
E.   Agricultural Sector .......... . ....................        25
P.   Human Resource Development          ............             27
G.   Social Dimensions of Adjustment .. . .                       29
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT .......... ..          31
A.   Economic and Financial Impact .......... ... ........        31
B.   Social  Impact  ........ ....................................  33
C.   External Financing Requirements     ...................      34
D.   Downside Risks ........ ........        ......... .          35
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT ....... .....      .........   .39
A.   Financing 3g...........                .      .....           39
B.  Monitorable Actions .4. ......                .... .          40
C.  Management and Coordination of the Program. ..                42
D.   Procurement, Disbursement and Retroactive Financing          42
PART V - RECOMMENDATION...............                                 43
TEXT TABLES
Table 1 - Basic Economic Data, 1986-89 .....     ..................     3
Table 2 - Distribution of IDA Lending  ....................... *        12
Table 3 - Summary Indicators, 1990-95: Base Case                       32
Table 4 - External Financing Requirements:  Base Case.                   7
Table 5 - Selected Economic Indicators, 1989-95.                       38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
I.*  Socil 1Ind.icators Data $hoot  ............................. *. ,*   44
II.  Eccauuaic Data.- Xase Csse Sce~nario ..;.........................    46.
IIi. Supplumsnta:y.Loan Data Sheet ..............                    53
IV. 8ttus of World Bank Loans and Credits *.........                 56
V.   Policy Stateaent by Togolese Goverament           .. ...................,...^ 57
V*. ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     , .~~nL.  . *****.***..  .  =**
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..
.,~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  :,.
I.



TOGO
POURT! STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrowers      Republic of Togo
Amounts:       IDA Credits  SDR 39.6 million (US$ 55 million equivalent)
Termss         Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Prosra
Descriptions   The Credit would support the Government's Fourth Structural
Adjustment Program covering the period 1990-92. The
objectives of the program are to: increase real GDP growth
to more than 4 percent per year by 1992; maintain
inflation, measured by the GDP deflator, at around 3
percent per year; reduce the current account balance
(exclusive of grants) relative to GDP; develop social
services with an emphasis on access by the least favored
groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government
Intends to implement an integrated program of macroeconomic
and structural reforms. At the macroeconomic level it will
reduce the fiscal deficit relative to GDP. Specific
structural reforms includes (a) improvements in public
sector management through a detailed program of
organizational reform of the three key economic ministries
(Planning and Mines; Economy and Finance; and Commerce and
Transport) and the development of a civil service
employment strategy over the medium term; (b) integration
of social considerations into policy formulation through
the development of new institutional mechanisms and
technical instruments; (c) reform of the public enterprise
sector through divestitures and the enactment and
implementation of a legal framework giving greater autonomy
to public enterprises; and (d) promotion of human resource
development by rationalizing delivery systems and budgetary
allocations. The foreign exchange provided under the
Credit would be used to finance essential imports.
Risks:         The main risks associated with the proposed operation are
a less favorable external environment, slower than
envisioned domestic supply response, and less forceful
implementation of the adjustment program by the Government.
Zstimated
Disbursements: The Credit would be available for disbursement in three
tranches. The first tranche of SDR 18 million (US$ 25
million equivalent) would be made available on
effectiveness, and the second and third upon satisfactory
progress in implementing the program. Performance reviews
would be carried out in October 1991 and October 1992.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 39.6 MILLION (US$ 55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR A
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 39.6 million (USS 55 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Togo to
support the Government's fourth structural adjustment program (SAL IV).
The proposed Development Credit would be disbursed in three tranches. Part
I of the present document describes the country policies and Bank
assistance strategy, drawing on Togo's P)licy Framework Paper for 1990-92
discussed by the Executive Directors in June 1990. Previous Policy
Framework Papers were discussed by Executive Directors in March 1988 and
May 1989 and a Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Board in
February 1982. Part II describes the content of SAL IV. Part III sets out
the economic, financial and social impacts envisioned under the program and
Part IV sets out features of the proposed credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.     Background
2.        Located on the Gulf of Guinea in Western Africa, Togo is a small
country (57,000 square kilometers with a population of 3.4 million),
relatively well-endowed in terms of agricultural and mineral resources.
Roughly 80 percent of the population derives its income from agricultural
production which is based on food crop production and the production of
cash crops (cotton, coffee, and cocoa) for export. Togo's mineral
production consists almost entirely of phosphate rock for export. The
Togolese economy also features an active commercial sector. With a well-
developed highway network and road system, linking its capital and
principal port, Lome, with neighboring countries (Benin, Ghana, and Burkina
Faso), and a well-managed banking system, Togo plays an important role as a
regional trading and financial center. In spite of these advantages Togo
remains, however, a relatively poor country, with GDP per capita estimated
at US$ 390 in 1989.
3.        With phosphate production the main source of growth and
government receipts, the Togolese economy experienced positive rates of
growth (averaging 6.4 percent per year) for a decade and a half through the
early 1970s. With the quadrupling of phosphate prices in late 1974, and
the subsequent near doubling of budget revenue in 1975, the Government
initiated an ambitious development strategy, aimed at rapid
industrialization and modernization of the economy. The chief features of
this strategy were sharply higher levels of public lector investment and
the creation of a wide variety of state enterprises in the secondary



2
sector. An integral part of this strategy was extensive reliance on
administrative controls, such as quantitative restrictions on imports and
exports and government price setting. This was most notably the case in
the agricultural sector, where the pricing policies of the government
agency responsible for the marketing of export crops, the Office des
Produits Agricoles Togolais (OPAT), imposed a heavy degree of implicit
taxation on producers of cash crops, discouraging domestic production.
4.        Wl'le the phosphate boom proved of short duration, it was
followed in 0.175-76 by the run up in coffee and cocoa prices. To sustain
its high level of spending, the Government also began relying on external
finance, increasingly on commercial terms. In 1978 total investment was an
extraordinary 46 percent of GDP. However, by the late 1970s, with the
declines in phosphate, coffee and cocoa prices, Togo's financial situation
worsened significantly and it began incurring external payments arrears.
More importantly, the Government's efforts to promote rapid
industrialization through creation of state enterprises and higher levels
of Government spending had not given rise to commensurate increases in
economic capacity. As a result, Togo entered the 1980s with a sharply
higher external indebtedness, internal and external macroeconomic
disequilibria, and an economy saddled with numerous structural rigidities
which inhibited domestic production.
B.        Adjustment Process
5.        Economic Reform Efforts:  1983-85.  The Government first
attempted to address these problems in 1979. However, it was only under
more rigorous stabilization programs adopted with the IMF in 1983-84 and
1984-85, together with substantial debt relief from the Paris and London
Clubs, that Togo was able to reduce significantly its budget and current
account deficits. Through a policy of tight cor-trol on personnel
expenditures involving limits on salary increases and new recruitment, Togo
was able to reduce the total government salary bill by 3.1 percent between
1983 and 1985. This restrictive policy, together with a significant
increase in government receipts, enabled the government to reduce sharply
the ratio of the fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) to GDP (from 8.7
percent in 1982 to 6.2 percent in 1985). Concurrently, the current account
deficit (exclusive of grants) was also sharply reduced as a percentage of
GDP, declining from 18.7 percent in 1982 to 13.9 percent in 1985.
6.        In parallel with these macroeconomic efforts, the Government
also engaged in a series of structural reforms, supported by IDA with
structural adjustment credits in June 1983 (SAL I) and in May 1985 (SAL
TI). A principal objective of this structural reform effort was the
enhancement of agricultural incomes and incentives through increases in
producer prices for the main cash crops. Between the 1983/84 and the
1986/87 crop years, prices for Togo's three principal export crops --
coffee, cocoa, and cotton -- were raised in real terms by 29, 20 and 25
percent respectively. These increases, together with the supply responses
they engendered (cotton production eventually extended to 45 percent of all
farmers) and a supportive institutional environment, substantially
augmented the real incomes of cash crop producers. Under SAL I and IT
important progress was also made in liberalizing food grain marketing and
in disengaging the State from commercial and industrial activity. In the



3
course of these programs, nineteen enterprises were closed or privatized
out of an original public portfolio of 73 enterprises. In addition, a
system of rolling three-year investment plans was initiated to improve the
quality and flexibility of Government investment programming. As part of
this effort, public investments were concentrated on directly productive
activities; i.e., rural development and infrastructure.
7.        The effect of these macroeconomic and structural measures was to
reverse the negative trend in real GDP growth. The combination of enhanced
incentives in the agricultural sector, the privatization of a number of
public enterprises, and an increase in directly productive investment
engendered an average annual rate of growth during 1984-86 of 2.5 percent
as compared with the -1.7 percent per year growth experienced during 1980-
83. However, this effort was interrupted in 1986 and 1987 when a
combination of unfavorable external terms of trade developments and large
overruns in government spending led to a significant deterioration in
Togo's external and internal situa.tions. As a result, the fiscal deficit
increased to 8.8 percent of GDP in 1987 and, by the end of that year,
external arrears equivalent to 8.5 percent of GDP had accumulated. In
conjunction with this, real growth declined to 1.5 percent in 1987.
8.        Economic Reform Efforts:  1987-89.  To address this situation,
the Government renewed, beginning in 1987, its efforts at macroeconomic and
structural reform. Its strategy in this regard was set out in its Third
Structural Adjustment Program which had as its overall objective the
achievement of a sustained rate of growth of 5 percent per year by the mid-
1990s. To this end, the program involved implementation of macroeconomic
measures designed to restore internal and external equilibria and
structural adjustment measures aimed at encouraging supply responses. IMF
support for this effort was provided through standby and SAF arrangements
approved in March 1988 and an ESAF arrangement approved in May 1989. IDA
support occurred through a Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL III)
approved in March 1988.
9.        Fiscal Measures.  The medium term scenario embodied ia the
Government's Policy Framework Papers for 1988-90 foresaw steady reductions
in budgetary and current account deficits relative to GDP. To achieve
these objectives, the Government relied on fiscal policy for effecting the
necessary macroeconomic adjustment. With the Government's internal revenue
effort already exceptionally high (30 percent of GDP in 1986), due in part
to the high degree of implicit taxation of the agricultural sector through
producer pricing policies, fiscal adjustment occurred primarily through
expenditure restraint. The Government was able to reduce the fiscal
deficit in 1988 as a share of GDP to 5.3 percent, broadly in line with the
objectives set out in its IMF program, by limiting increases or effecting
reductions in controllable current expenditures (see Table 1). Personnel
expenditures increased only 3.5 percent between 1987 and 1988, and
materials expenditures declined by 17 percent. On the external side, in
spite of increased cotton and phosphate exports, the current account
(exclusive of transfers) deteriorated slightly by roughly CFAF 6 billion as
imports of consumption goods and investment goods increased in response to
accelerated economic activity.   As a result, the current account deficit,
measured as a percent of GDP increased slightly to around 13 percent.
!



4
10.       In the Policy Framework Paper for 1989-91, continued fiscal
improvement was envisioned for 1989, but Togo's performance did not meet
expectations due to shortfalls in government revenues. Government receipts
linked to economic activity were below expectations, reflecting the
slowdown in growth, and customs receipts declined as the import composition
shifted towards less heavily taxed foodstuffs and capital and intermediate
goods. The Government was able to recoup part of the revenue shortfall
through higher direct contributions from state agencies, notably the
phosphate company (Office Togolais des Phosphates - OTP) and the Petroleum
Price Equalization Fund (la Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des
Produits Petroliers - CPSPP) and through reductions in current and
investment expenditures. In spite of this effort, the fiscal deficit
(measured exclusive of grants) was roughly 1 percent of GDP higher in 1989
than foreseen in the original program, amounting to 6.2 percent of GDP.
Togo's balance of payments, by contrast, showed a sharp improvement in 1989
with phosphate exports continuing to benefit from strong external demand.
As a result, the trade balance improved sharply and the current account
deficit (exclusive of grants) decreased to around 10 percent of GDP.
11.       Structural Measures.  Together with its efforts aimed at
restoring macroeconomic balances, the Government also engaged in a wide-
ranging series of structural reforms. The objectives of these reforms, as
described in the PFPs, were to enhance supply incentives in agriculture and
industry and increase the efficiency of public sector resource use through
further rationalization of public sector enterprises and improvements in
public investment programming.
12.       In the course of 1988-89, the Government made substantial
progress in implementation of structural reform measures in most of these
areas. In the agricultural sector, a system of flexible producer pricing
was adopted in 1988 for the main export crops. Under this system a
guaranteed floor price is announced prior to the beginning of each crop
year, with farmers receiving a subsequent supplement based upon actual
market developments. By linking the producer price to the world market
price, the system ensures that the producer receives the benefits (or
losses) associated with world market price developments. Implementation of
this system has coincided with declines in coffee and cocoa prices on the
world market, which necessitated reducing producer prices for these crops
by roughly one half. Such a development, while reducing production
incentives in recent years, is nonetheless consistent with world market
developments and Togo's exchange rate arrangements. On the other hand,
producer prices for cotton have been generally maintained, partly through
efficiency gains. This is particularly important given the relative
pervasiveness of cotton cultivation in Togo.



5
Table 1
Toga
Basic Economic Data. 1986-89
Output and Prices                    1986      1987       1988      1989
(change In percent over previous year
Real GDP                              3.4       1.5        4.9       3.8
Real GDY per capita                   1.8      -5.0        2.9       2.1
GDP deflator                          3.6       2.0        3.3       1.2
(Rercent of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
Public Investment                    11.9       7.9        7.3       7.6
Budget
Domestic Revenue                     28.9      23.8       24.0      22.9
Grants                                4.3       2.2        2.0       2.4
Expenditure                          37.7      32.8       29.3      29.1
Current                             24.9      24.9       22.0      21.4
(of which personnel)                8.0        9.1       8.7        8.4
Capital                             11.9       7.9        7.3       7.6
Not Lending                          0.9       0.0        0.0       0.0
Resource Balance
Gross Investment/6DP                24.0       20.2       20.2      20.5
Domestic SavingslGDP                 12.3      11.6       10.6      13.2
External Sector                    (in billion CFAF, unless otherwise
specified)
Exports (fob)                        125.6    120.1      135.3      149.3
Imports (cif)                       168.7    155.2       175.9      181.6
Trade balance                      - 43.1    -35.1    - 40.6       - 32.3
Current Account Balance
(before official transfers)       - 54.0    -45.5    - 50.6       - 41.9
Official Transfers, net               34.8     21.2       22.4       25.1
Current Account Balancv            - 19.2    -24.3    - 27.8       - 16.4
Overall Balance                     - 26.6    -26.3    -  9.4         1.5
Current Account before
official transfers/GDP            - 15.0    -12.1    - 12.5        - 9.8
Current Account after
transfers/GDP                     -  5.3    - 6.5      - 6.8       - 3.8
Debt Service/Export of
goods and services                  29.4      27.9       25.4       17.3



6
13.       In parallel with this, the Government sought to dir4nish the
differential between producer prices and world market prices by reducing
costs of the government agencies responsible for marketing. These efforts
were the most far-reaching in OPAT which in the course of SAL III underwent
significant reductions in personnel and other administrative costs and
withdrew from activities other than the marketing of coffee, cocoa, and
cottorh.  Under SAL III, the Government also formally liberalized the
marketing of all agricultural products to and from member countries of
ECOWAS, expanding the potential market for food crop producers.
Implementation of this new policy has been hampered, however, by
insufficient follow-through with those agents charged with its
administration. More fundamentally, the Government announced in mid-1989 a
new strategy based on the active promotion of "non-traditional"
agricultural exports, effectively reversing the long-standing emphasis on
limiting foodstuff exports to ensure food self-sufficiency. As part of
this strategy, a Commission was established to examine the various aspects
of this issue and a first assessment was produced in 1989 which led to the
preparation of specific recommendations; these will be the basis for a plan
of action developed during the 1991-92 period (see para. 76).
14.       The Government also undertook a series of measures to improve
the efficiency of resource allocation in the industrial sector. These
efforts focussed on rationalizing the system of protection, increasing
incentJves for investment, relaxing the regulatory framework, and actively
promoting industrial exports. Export licensing of manufactured exports was
abolished in early 1988 and by end-1989 the Government had abolished import
licensing and quantitative controls on all but three imports which remain
governed by special regimes. The import monopoly of the state trading
company, SONACOM, with respect to key consumer commodities was also
abolished. The Government also put in place, as of January 1, 1990, new
tax and tariff systems, combining them into a single comprehensive system
and substantially simplifying the structure and reducing the formerly wide
dispersion of tariff rates.
15.       To rationalize the incentive framework for investments, the
Government adopted in October 1989 a new investment code in which
incentives are based on pre-determined criteria for enterprise performance
specified in the code. In addition, to promote export-oriented
manufacturing firms, in September 1989 the Government passed a law
establishing export processing zones. Under this regime, firms whose
production is dedicated to exports and which provide new jobs are eligible
for duty exemptions and fiscal and administrative incentives. Firms
already established in Togo may also benefit from these arrangements under
special circumstances. In a further effort to encourage private investment
the Government undertook selective measures to relax the regulatory
framework by abolishing requirements for the periodic renewal of
establishment permits and eliminating official price controls on
domestically produced manufactured goods.
16.       In the area of public sector enterprise restructuring, the
Government continued to pursue the divestiture program defined under SALs I
and II. By the end of the SAL III program a total of six firms remained to
be privatized out of the original group of 29 public enterprises. During
the course of SAL III, the Government also undertook a review of its



7
experience in this area on the basis of which it adopted a new strategy for
future public sector divestitures. Under the new strategy, 26 firms were
designated to remain in the state's portfolio and an additional 18
enterprises identified for privatization. For those firms remaining in its
portfolio, which include public utilities, the social security fund and
lottery, and certain government administrative services as well as four
hotels and OTP, the Government initiated work on a new legal framework
designed to foster their imprQved management and efficiency. It had been
expected that work on this framework would be completed and the necessary
implementing measures taken by the end of 1989. However, the complexity of
the task did not permit completion during the or.4ginally envisioned time
fraae; as a result, implementation of the new f.-ar.ework will take place
during the 1991-92 period (see para. 66). The Government also pursued a
series of institutional reforms to improve the efficiency of the Ministry
of Industry and State Enterprises (MISE). A new organizational structure
of the Ministry was prepared and, to improve oversight of public sector
enterprises, a management information system was developed to provide key
information on the performance of public sector firms. By the end of the
Third Structural Adjustment Program, most public enterprises had been
integrated into this system.
17.       Assessment of Reforms.  These reform efforts were associated
with a strong growth response. After 1987, when real growth was only 1.5
percent, Togo enjoyed positive real growth in per capita terms. Real
growth in 1988 was an impressive 4.9 percent while growth in 1989,
3.8 percent, was comfortably above the rate of population growth. The main
sources of growth were the primary sector which grew in real terms at 6-7
percent a year in 1988 and 1989. This reflected in 1988 a positive supply
response in food crop production resulting from better climatic conditions
and in 1989 increased production of cotton and coffee associated with
efforts to raise producer prices for these products during the 1985-88
period. In addition, in 1988 phos^hate production increased sharply in
response to increased world deman. With government consumption
constrained, Togo improved its investment/savings balance, which was
roughly halved between 1987 and 1988, while maintaining a ratio of
investment to GOP of over 20 percent.
18.       The Government's performance under SAL III, however, also
highlighted a number of institutional and structural deficiencies.
Implementation of reforms was slower than originally envisioned, with the
second tranche release occurring 21 months after approval of the program.
Part of the explanation for the slow implementation, notably for the tax
and tariff reforms, was a conscious government decision to proceed
prudently in order to have a clear assessment of the impact of the reforms
and to build a domestic consensus around the action. However, in other
cases the lack of progress reflected institutional capacity constraints.
19.       Public investment programming and implementation showed little
progress beyond the first two programs, reflecting continued institutional
weaknesses. The Public Investment Program (PIP), which incorporates both
investments by the Government as well as public enterprises, remained
largely financed and driven by donors' objectives and concerns, with little
independent capacity on the part of Government to situate public
investments within consistent macroeconomic or sectoral strategies. In



8
addition, there was little link between the PIP and the recurrent budget,
with investment budgeting and current budgeting largely independent
exercises. While an effort was made in 1988 to estimate recurrent charges
tied to investments, the results of this endeavor remain largely
unexploited. Complicating this problem is the lack of transparency in the
investment budget. A significant proportion of the investment budget
consists of expenditures which could more properly be classified as current
expenses. In addition, CPAF 6.5 billion a year (roughly one-fifth of the
total investment budget) in goods derived from phosphate countertrade
("exportations compens4es") and listed as investments in the budget
remained effectively out of the investment program altogether and not
subject to evaluation.
20.       Rates of implementation of the investment budget fell below
forecast levels. Actual investments in 1989 were less than 75? of the
amount originally foreseen, below the envisioned 85-901 execution rate. An
explanatory factor in this regard is the continued existence of time-
consuming administrative procedures governing public contracting with the
President required to approve any contract involving an expenditure of more
than CFAF 10 million (US$ 38,500). According to a recent study,
identification of a project and selection of a contractor require 25
separate steps involving ten different Government agencies or bureaus. It
had been expected that these problems would be addressed through the
elaboration of a new Public Procurement Code; however, by the end of SAL
III there had been little progress in this area. Preparation and
implementation of the new Code is now expected for 1991 (see para. 52).
21.       Government fiscal discipline, dictated by the need to restore
macroeconomic balances, was not necessarily implemented in a way consistent
with long term ievelopment needs. Restrictions on expenditures tended to
be applied in an across-the-board manner (as through freezes on civil
service hiring and mandatory early retirement) rather than through a
nuanced approach which took account of differences in actual needs. This
approach had the effect of disadvantaging sectors devoted to human resource
development, such as health and education, where effective delivery of
services requires critical minimum levels of certain current expenditures,
e.g., textbooks, medicines, etc. Overall expenditures on education
remained essentially static in real terms between 1987 and 1989, implying
some decline in expenditures on a per capita basis. Personnel costs
consumed the largest part of the total educational budget with expenditures
on materials averaging only 25 percent of total recurrent expenditures. In
addition, expenditures on higher education accounted for up to one-fourth
of the total educational budget.
22.       A similar pattern was evident in the health sector.  While
recent years have seen some increase in health expenditures in per capita
terms, health expenditures in 1989 were virtually at the same nominal per
capita level (CFAF 1,489 or US$ 5) as 1982, reflecting a significant
decline in real terms. In addition, the distribution of expenditures
within the health sector is heavily skewed towards personnel expenditures
as opposed to materials. In the 1987-89 period, personnel expenditures
typically accounted for 77-80 percent of total budgeted expenditures.
Associated with this were sharp regional disparities in the distribution of
health sector expenditures, which were oriented towards the Maritime



9
region, which includes Lomd, at the expense of other regions. As the
outlying regions contain a higher proportion of the poor, this had the
effect of limiting access to health services by the poorest segments of the
population. Finally, durin" the period covered by SALs I-111, the
implications of Togo's rapid population growth rate for overall economic
growth and development were largely ignored, with Government activity in
this area lagging behind public demand for family planning services.
C.        Central Development Issues
23.       In spite of the progress made to date in creating a favorable
enabling environment for economic growth, Togo's economic situation remains
fragile. As a small open economy, Togo is strongly influenced by world
market developments. This vulnerability is exacerbated by the heavy
concentration of exports in a few primary commodities (phosphates, coffee,
cocoa, and cotton), the price prospects of which, over the medium term, are
not brilliant. Partly because of adverse external developments, real
growth this year is expected to fall to less than 2 percent. Real growth
over the medium term will thus need to come from new sources, notably
exports of light manufactures and non-traditional crops, particularly
foodstuffs. Complicating this problem is the need to generate high rates
of growth to provide employment for new entrants into the labor force and
to reduce existing unemployment. Togo's population growth is in excess of 3
percent a year and, while statistics are not entirely reliable, there
appears to be sizable unemployment and underemployment, with urban
unemployment in 1985 estimated at 16 percent.
24.      'While macroeconomic balances have substantially improved since
1987, Togo has not yet attained budget and current account deficits which
can be sustained in the absence of extraordinary financing through balance
of payments support or debt relief. External debt remains burdensome, in
spite of recent debt cancellations, with scheduled external debt service
payments (prior to rescheduling) equivalent to 16 percent of the
Government's domestic fiscal receipts. Togo remains heavily dependent on
foreign savings, with external grants and loans (almost exclusively
concessional) equivalent to more than 20 percent of total government
expenditure. These factors imply that fiscal restraint, chiefly through
expenditure control, will need to remain a hallmark of medium term
macroeconomic policy.
25.       At the same time, however, Togo will need to pay increasing
attention to human resource development.   As noted in paras. 21 and 22,
expenditure control, focussed primarily on controllable current
expenditures, has affected with particular severity the education and
health sectors, which are relatively vulnerable to inadequate levels of
current funding. Under SAL III efforts were made to protect to some extent
the health and education budgets leading, in the case of public health, to
some real spending increases. However, this effort did not fully offset
previous budgetary compression particularly when account is taken of Togo's
rapidly growing population. In addition, it did not occur in the context
of any clear sector strategies. Thus, the existing emphasis in these
sectors on personnel expenditures as opposed to materials has remained
relatively unaffected.



10
26.       Associated with this, more systematic emphasis needs to be
placed on the social impact of Togo's adjustment efforts in order to
maximize the impact on poverty alleviation. While policies pursued under
previous SALs were essential to restore economic and financial balances,
the social dimensions of these policies were not explicitly taken into
account. Some of these policies had a significant impact on poverty
alleviation nonetheless, most notably the increases in agricultural
producer prices. This reflected in part inadequate information systems and
procedures for following social developments and assessing the potential
impact of policy choices. However, with the improvement in Togo's
macroeconomic balances and the elimination of a number of the structural
impediments to growth an increased priority needs to be accorded to
ensuring that the benefits of growth are equitably distributed.
27.       Togo also confronts a number of challenges with respect to the
environment, such as deforestation and coastal erosion. The Government has
already undertaken measures to address these problems, most notably the
adoption in November 1989 of an environmental code. Based upon this code,
the authorities intend to prepare an environmental action plan which will
be organized around specific themes: development of an appropriate
institutional framework; protection and management of watersheds; erosion
control and water use management; forestry improvement and management;
protection and management of parks and reserves; management of the effects
of industrialization on the environment; and improvement of the quality of
life in urban and rural areas. In each of these areas, studies are to be
undertaken which will assess the current situation and define measures or
actions to address the problems identified. This process is currently
underway and is expected to result in the development of an overall
strategy in this area which can serve as a framework for government actions
and donor support.
28.       Addressing these interrelated problems will require careful
economic management in which priorities are clearly defined, tradeoffs
assessed, and policies implemented consistently within the context of
coherent overall strategies. However, experience under previous SALs has
made evident the need to reinforce administrative capacities to formulate
and implement economic policies, particularly in the area of public finance
management. Present systems and personnel, particularly in the main
economic ministries responsible for overall economic policies, are not
adequate to the task, as evidenced in the lack of progress in public
investment programming (see para. 19). Institutional reinforcement is,
therefore, required to ensure the achievement of sustainable growth and
development over the medium term.
29.       The Government's approach to addressing these problems is set
out in its Policy Framework Paper for 1990-92, discussed by the Executive
Directors in June 1990. The main features of this strategy are: (a) a
continued pursuit of prudent monetary and fiscal policies; (b) an emphasis
in public expenditures on enhancing growth prospects, promoting human
resource development and meeting the needs of the most vulnerable groups;
and (c) an effort to further increase the efficiency of the public sector.
A key feature of the Government's strategy is the need to pay greater
attention to social concerns, as reflected in the emphasis in its strategy
on meeting needs of the most vulnerable groups. The Government's Fourth



11
Structural Adjustment Program, articulated in the statement of development
policy attached at Annex V, describes the specific policy measures it will
implement as part of this overall strategy.
D.        Bank Group Operations
30.       As of September 30, 1990, Bank Group lending to Togo totalled 33
credits, amounting to US$461.6 million (US$465.9 million in credits minus
USS 4.3 million in cancellations), of which US$338.7 was disbursed, as well
as an IBRD loan of US$3.5 million (Annex IV). In addition, IFC commitments
in Togo as of August 31, 1990 amounted to US$ 4.1 million. IDA investment
credits have financed agriculture (cocoa, coffee, cotton and food crops),
transport, water supply, power, education, telecommunications, private
enterprise development and grassroots initiatives supported and/or
implemented by NGOs. Togo has also benefitted from Bank Group support to
regional operations, including two credits to the West African Development
Bank (BOAD), credits for the feasibility study and construction of the
Nangbeto regional hydroelectric project, and, finally, a Bank loan of US$
49.5 million to CIMAO (a regional clinker plant, now closed) jointly and
severally guaranteed by the Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana and Togo, plus a further
IDA credit of US$ 5.7 million for CIMAO.
31.       The bulk of IDA finance has occurred since 1983; less than 20
percent of the total commitments pre-date 1985. IDA lending has involved a
mixture of adjustment and project lending (see Table 2 below). Reflecting
the close relations with the Government, the Bank has been active in many
sectors in Togo with the main areas of emphasis being agriculture (8
credits accounting for 25 percent of total IDA credits) and infrastructure
(11 credits representing 32 percent of total IDA credits). This emphasis
conforms with the Government's priority since 1983 to concentrate public
investment in areas promoting or supportive of directly productive
activities. In addition, IDA has supported technical assistance to the
Ministries of Planning, Rural Development and State Enterprises.
32.       IDA adjustment lending to date has been through three structural
adjustment credits: SAL I (US$ 40 million) approved in June 1983; SAL II
(US$ 37.8 million) approved in May 1985; and SAL III (SDR 33 million)
approved in March 1988. The final tranche of SAL III was released in
December 1989. There have been to date no sector adjustment operations in
Togo.



12
Table 2
Togo - Distribution of IDA Lending
Sector                    Date of Approval                Credit Amount
(US$ million)
Adjustment Operations
SAL I                          6/83                            40.0
SAL II                         5/85                            37.8
SAL III                        3/88                            45.3
Energy
Power Eng. & TA               11/81                             2.0
Nangbeto Hydro                 6/84                            15.0
Power Rehab. & Ext.            7/90                            15.0
Rural
Coffee, Cocoa Dev.             7/74                             6.0
Maritime Region Rural Dev.    6/76                              9.5
Dev. in Cotton Areas           9/77                            14.0
Coffee, Cocoa II               6/79                            14.0
Rural Dev. II                 11/82                            30.4
Coffee, Cocoa III             12/86                            17.9
Agriculture Extension          5/87                             9.7
Cotton Sector                  6/88                            15.1
Urban
Lome Water Supply              6/83                            12.0
Telecommunications
Telecommunications             6189                            16.0
Transport
Highway Maintenance           10/68                             4.3
Second Highway                11/73                             8.7
Third Highway                  3/77                            10.0
Feeder Roads                   5/78                             5.8
Fourth Highway                 5/81                            20.0
Transport Rehab.              12/87                            40.0
Industry and Finance
Phosphate Engin. & TA          6/81                             5.7
CIMAO Restructuring            2/83                             5.7
Private Enter. Dev.            9/87                            11.5
Social Sector
First Education                5/80                            11.0
Educational Improvement        3185                            12.4
Grassroots Dev.                3/89                             5.0
Vocational Education           9/90                             9.2
Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance           6179                             2.2
TA II                          6/82                             3.5
TA III                         5/85                             6.2
Preinvestment                  5/89                             5.0
TOTAL                                    465.9



13
E.        Country Lending Strategy and Priorities
33.       The Bank Group has sought through its activities to support the
Government's efforts to promote sustainable growth and development with
equity. This has involved a multifaceted approach, comprising policy
dialogue, buttressed by economic and sector work; lending, both project and
structural adjustment; and mobilization of donor support for Togo. As the
largest single donor to Togo, active in virtually all sectors of the
economy, the Bank has played an important role in initiating and sustaining
the policy dialogue with the Government. In this area, relations between
the Government and the Ba.ik have been particularly close since 1983.
Through structural adjustment lending the Bank has been in regular contact
with the Government on its overall strategy and specific policy priorities.
This dialogue has been reflected in Policy Framework Papers which have also
served to ensure consistency between Fund and Bank programs. Key areas of
emphasis in the Bank's dialogue with the Government have been reform of the
public enterprise sector and increased incentives for producers of cash
crops. More recently, social dimensions of adjustment and human resource
development have received particular emphasis in discussions with the
Government.
34.       Consistent with the wide ranging Bank involvement in Togo, the
Bank's lending strategy involves a mixture of investment and adjustment
lending. This mixture is expected to continue in the near term, reflecting
Togo's continuing need for both balance of payments and investment finance.
Consistent with the overall approach set out in the Gove nment's most
recent PFP (see para. 29), investment lending will be coicentrated in
priority sectors for economic growth and development and support the
Government's efforts to promote human resource development and address
social considerations. Investment projects approved earlier this fiscal
year have involved power system rehabilitation and extension, designed to
meet growing electricity demand, and vocational education, aimed at
aligning technical training with actual market skill demands. Both of
these projects fit within a medium term growth context based on positive
supply responses to a favorable Government incentive regime and are
designed to promote growth through alleviation of key capacity constraints.
The vocational education project also represents a key element in the
Government's strategy to promote human resource development. In the
agricultural sector, a project designed to restructure the service delivery
system and promote agricultural productivity was appraised in June 1990.
This project, which is expected to be submitted for Board consideration
next year, is a central component of the Government's agricultural strategy
to promote production of non-traditional crops. Investment projects
envisioned for FY 1992 and beyond include a forestry and environmental
project, to build upon environmental action programs currently under
preparation, and a rural credit project, to address the problem of assuring
adequate levels of rural credit.
35.       an addition to the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, work
i7 far-advanced on a Health Sector Adjustment operation. This operation,
which has been appraised and which is expected to be submitted to the Board
for in early 1991, will involve the restructuring and reorientation of the
health care delivery system, emphasizing the delivery of primary health
care services and focussing on a decentralization of delivery systems. It



14
will support the Government in its intention to emphasize delivery of
primary health care services and in so doing address a key social concern.
To meet projected additional recurrent budgetary costs associated with this
program, the proposed Credit will provide budget support over the 1990-94
period. In support of the proposed SAL IV, an Economic Management Project
(EMP) is also envisioned. This project will be based upon integrated
programs of priority actions (IPPAs) developed as part of diagnostic work
initiated under SAL IV and will provide the vehicle for IDA support of the
institutional reinforcement envisaged under the proposed Credit. An
education sector adjustment operation is also planned. This project will
be based upon efforts initiated under the structural adjustment program to
define priorities and needs in this area.
36.       The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit is based upon and
fully consistent with the policy measures identified in the Government's
Policy Framework Paper for 1990-92 and is expected to be the last
Structural Adjustment Credit for Togo. The Credit will provide a vehicle
for integrating the Government's budget, growth, social and human resource
development objectives, consonant with the priorities defined in the PFP.
In addition, it will define the overall framework for Government activities
in the area of the social dimensions of adjustment and provide the basis
for the implementation of action programs to address poverty alleviation
and ensure a better distribution of the benefits of growth. The Credit
will directly address the key remaining systemic constraint, public sector
management, and by completing the final phase of the Government's public
enterprise reform program will serve to define the apprbpriate extent of
Governmental intervention in the economy as well as making such
intervention more efficient. As such, successful implementation of the
Credit will set the stage for self-sustaining growth and development over
the medium term, permitting future adjustment operations to focus on
implementation of sector specific reforms.
F.        Criteria for Evaluating Progress
37.       The Government's ability to achieve its medium term objectives
of sustainable growth with equity will be tested over the next several
years. Critical to the achievement of this goal will be the ability of the
Government to reduce the budget deficit to levels that are financeable in
the -bsence of extraordinary measures. Consistent with the medium term
macroeconomic framework outlined in the Policy Framework Paper, the
evolution of the deficit over the medium term will provide an important
indication of the Government's progress in achievement of its objective of
sustainable growth and development.
38.       With government revenues already high relative to GDP, fiscal
restraint will continue to rest upon expenditure control. Of equal
importance to the overall level of Government expenditures is its
composition. As a result of improved rates of execution and in order to
support directly productive activity and provide complementary
infrastructure, public investment levels will need to increase over the
medium term. This will in turn imply that expenditure control will need to
be exercised particularly rigorously on current expenditures. However,
within the current expenditure envelope close attention will need to be
paid to ensuring adequate levels of support for human resource development



15
and critical social needs. Of particular concern in this regard will be
the need to provide for adequate expenditures for materials in the
education and health sectors. Achievement of these multiple objectives
will involve in the final analysis, therefore, rigorous control over
personnel expenditures, with the overall wage bill showing little, if any,
growth over the next several years.
39.       In the area of structural reform, forceful implementation of
measures to improve public sector management will be particularly
important. This will imply an integrated effort involving institutional
changes focussed on systems of management and organization, to ensure
adequate information flows within and between ministries, and personnel
training, to increase human resource capacities within the Government.
This will be particularly important in the Planning and Finance Ministries
which play central roles in the formulation of economic policies and the
allocation of financial resources.
G.        Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF
40.       A number of donors are currently active in Togo, providing both
project and balance of payments support. The latter has generally occurred
within the framework of Bank structural adjustment programs and the Bank
has regularly taken the lead in mobilizing and coordinating support for
Togo, notably by co-chairing the 1985 and 1988 Donors' Round Tables, which
set out the Government's medium term public investment priorities. Based
upon the policy orientations contained in its Fourth Strjctural Adjustment
Program, the Government has initiated a series of sectoral meetings leading
up to a Donors' Round Table meeting in 1991. The Bank will assist the
Government in 1990-92 in mobilizing non-project assistance in support of
its structural adjustment program as well as project financing to support
the public investment program.
41.       In the context of Togo's 1990-92 PFP, the IMF has prepared a
second year ESAF arrangement which was approved by the Fund Board on June
22 1990. The program has been reviewed with Fund staff and the IMP Board
will consider this review in December. The structural measures in the
Government's Fourth Structural Adjustment Program are fully reflected in
the PFP and the macroeconomic framework underlying the program is
consistent with Togo's ESAF program, as revised. The Fund ESAF program,
for its part, assumes implementation of structural measures envisioned
under the adjustment program and adjustment financing from the Bank is
assumed in the balance of payments and budget projections. Bank staff have
maintained close working relations with the Fund throughout the preparation
of the SAL.
H.        Summary Assessment
42.       As a small, open economy, economic policy in Togo must
necessarily be outward oriented with maximum reliance on markets to signal
resource allocation. However, the economic strategy pursued during the
1970s was at variance with this reality, aiming at a rapid
industrialization brought about through high rates of public investment.
Associated with this was extensive Government intervention ,n the economy
which occurred directly, through the creation of public enterprises, and



16
indirectly, through distortions of relative prices. Pursuit of this
strategy resulted in the emergence of economic and financial difficulties
for Togo in the latter part of the decade.
43.       Since 1983 the Government has made considerable strides in
redressing this situation. At the macroeconomic level, fiscal and current
account deficits, measured as a proportion of GDP, have been reduced
relative to the early 19809. At the structurae. level, the role of
Government has been sharply cut back, through divestiture and reform of the
public enterprise sector, and through elimination of a number of price
distortions and creation of incentives for private sector activity. The
Bank Group has supported this effort through a mixture of investment and
structural adjustment lending bolstered by an active policy dialogue.
44.       This effort has been rewarded with a positive supply response,
with real GDP growing in per capita terms in both 1988 and 1989. The
strong response by producers of cash crops to higher producer prices was
particularly encouraging in this respect. However, self-sustaining growth
and development has not yet been achieved. The Togolese economy remains
dependent on developments in the world market and there is only limited
growth potential in several of Togo's main cash crop exports. Togo's
fiscal and balance of payments position remains precarious over the medium
term. In addition, in the face pressing fiscal constraints, spending
levels and allocations in the health and education sectors need to be
carefully managed to permit achievement of human resource development
objectives. Finally, weaknesses in the Government's bu4get and public
investment processes remain an important obstacle to subtained growth and
development.
45.        The Government intends to address these deficiencies in its
Fourth Structural Adjustment Program covering the period 1990-92. This
program draws upon the policy directions and overall strategies set out in
the Government's Policy Framework Paper for 1990-92 discussed by the
Executive Directors in June and which is the basis for Togo's currevt ESAF
program with the Fund. The proposed IDA credit will provide support for
the Government's structural adjustment efforts over the 1990-92 period as
defined in its policy declaration (Annex V).
PART II - THE SAL IV PROGRAM 1990-92
46.       Under its Fourth Structural Adjustment Program, the Government
will seeks a) to increase real GDP growth to more than 4 percent by the end
of the program period; b) to limit the rate of inflation, as measured by
the GDP deflator, to 3 percent or less; c) to reduce the external current
account deficit, excluding official transfers, to 7.7 percent of GDP by
1s2; and d) to improve the provision of social services, with particular
emphasis on access by the most vulnerable groups.
47.       The proposed SAL will support the Government in the achievement
of these objectives. It will contain the following elements:



17
(a) Public Finance. Levels of directly productive public
investment are to be increased while investment programming
and implementation will be improved. Transparency of
investment budgeting will be enhanced by the inclusion in
the rolling three-year public investment program of all
investments financed by phosphate countertrade.
(b)  Public Sector Management.   Public sector resource use will
be made more efficient through an integrated and systematic
program of reinforcement of the three major economic
ministries (Plan and Mines; Economy and Finance; and
Commerce and Transport). This will supplement previous or
envisioned efforts covering the Ministries of Agriculture,
Health, and State Enterprises. In parallel with this
ministerial level activity, systemic problems at the level
of the civil service as a whole will also be addressed in
the course of the program period.
(c) Public Enterprise Reform. The Government's role in the
economy will be further reduced through continuation of the
process of divestiture from public enterprises and the
implementation of the legal framework increasing the
autonomy of public firms remaining in the portfolio.
(d) Agriculture. Agricultural production and productivity will
be increased through more efficient delivery of
agricultural extension services and inputs and enhancement
of marketing opportunities for non-traditional exports.
(e) Human Resource Development. Provision will be made for
adequate budgetary allocations in the health and education
sectors. A strategy defining government priorities and
associated budgetary implications over the medium term will
be elaborated for the general education sector.
(f) Social Dimensions of Adjustment. Social impacts of policy
choices will be taken into account in policy formulation
and implementation through the creation of institutional
mechanisms and technical instruments. Based on work
underway, an action program of targeted interventions will
be developed and implemented during the program period.
A.        Public Finance
48.       Background.  With the objective of achieving sustainable budget
and balance of payments positions, the Government intend8 to pursue over
the 1990-92 period fiscal policies designed to increase public savings and
reduce deficits in relation to GDP. The budget deficit (exclusive of
grants) is projected to decline from 6.2 percent of GDP in 1989 to 3.6
percent in 1992 and remain at roughly this level through 1995. Key to this
will be ensuring adequate fiscal receipts by broadening the tax base and
increasing the contributions of public enterprises to the budget. In 1990
seven public enterprises have begun servicing their external debt
obligations out of their own resources and others are expected to do



18
likewise as their financial conditions improve. This represents an
effective addition to Government revenues of CFAF 5.2 billion in 1990,
roughly half of the anticipated increase in Government's domestic receipts.
49.       Total Government revenues are projected to be maintained at a
level of 23-24 percent of GDP during the period 1990-92 and then decline
slightly to around 21-22 percent of GDP by 1995, still relatively high by
Sub-Saharan African standards. This decline reflects the inelasticity of
direct and indirect receipts from public sector entities, which together
account for over one-fifth of all government receipts in 1990. Receipts
from these entities are determined by world market developments, the price
of phosphates in the case of the government-owned phosphate company (OTP)
and oil (through receipts from the CPSPP), or are essentially fixed by law
or policy (maximization of prices to farmers by OPAT and the size of
external debt service obligations to be serviced by the public
enterprises).
50.       Public Investment.  With the completion of the Nangbeto
hydroelectric dam in 1988 (public investment on which was equivalent to 1.8
percent of GDP in 1986 and 1.4 percent in 1987), public investment has
remained relatively flat as a share of GDP, 7.3 percent in 1988 and 7.6
percent in 1989. In support of the government's growth with equity
objective, a sharp increase in public investment is forecast over the 1990-
92 period. Public investment is expected to increase by 15 percent in 1990
and continue to grow in real terms over the 1990-92 period, remaining at
roughly 8.5 percent of GDP. Over the 1990-92 period, public investments
(including investments by public enterprises and investments derived from
phosphate countertrade) are expected to total roughly CFAF 228 billion.
After 1992, public investment is projected to decline slightly as a percent
of GDP but with private investment increasing, overall investment levels
will remain at around 22 percent of GDP, relatively high for a low income
Sub-Saharan African country. During the 1990-92 period, public investments
will be concentrated in agriculture and basic infrastructure, sectors key
to Togo's medium term growth prospects, and health and education, in
support of human resource development.  These sectors will altogether
account for roughly 85 percent of total public investments over the 1990-92
period.
51.       SAL IV Measures.  Achievement of these objectives will require,
however, continued efforts to improve public investment programming and
implementation and to enhance the rate of execution of government
investments. Accordingly, the Government will continue its rolling three-
year public investment program (PIP) and will include, beginning with the
PIP for 1991-93, all investment expenses financed out of phosphate
countertrade. In addition, the content of the PIP will be reviewed
annually with the Bank and the rate of execution quarterly. Associated
with this the Government will seek to increase the effectiveness of
investment programming in meeting social objectives, most notably by
including in its assessments of proposed projects estimates of the
investment's impact on social variables, notably employment (see para. 93).
Agreement with IDA on the PIP for 1991-93 will be a second tranche release
condition; imlementation of the 1991-93 PIP and agreement on the PIP for
1992-94 will be a third tranche release condition.



19
52.       To improve the quality of public investments, the Government
will draw upon the donor-financed Preinvestment Fund for feasibility and
pre-feasibility studies. To increase the rate of execution, the Government
intends to adopt a number of technical measures. To expedite public
procurement, the thresholds governing bidding procedures were recently
increased, with Presidential approval required only for contracts greater
than CFAF 50 million (US$ 190,000). In addition, the Government will
simplify the procedures for prior authorization for competitive bidding and
increase the publicity associated with such bids to maximize competition.
It also intends to adopt a model contract for international bidding for use
by Ministries and to adjust the payment schedules in contracts consistent
with project execution to ensure timely payment to bidders. To address the
range of problems associated with government procurement practices, a new
code for public procurement, preparation of which had been envisioned under
SAL III, will be adopted. Promulgation of the procurement code will be a
condition for second tranche release. To ensure greater accountability in
investment budgeting, the Government will examine the possibility of
including all taxes in donor-financed public sector procurement contracts.
This would not involve any greater expense for donors but would ensure that
the productivity of the project was correctly evaluated and obviate any
incentive to include non-project related goods in donor-financed
investments.
53.       Current Expenditures.  With Government receipts expected to
decline relative to GDP and increases in investment spending envisioned,
current expenditures will be tightly constrained during the 1990-95 period.
Between 1990 and 1992, current expenditures. exclusive of interest
payments, are expected to increase less than 5 percent, implying negative
growth in real terms. Critical to the Government's success in controlling
current expenditures is continued tight restriction on the wage bill, which
accounts for roughly 40 percent of all current expenditures. The total
number of civil servants has declined from more than 34,500 in 1987 to
about 33,800 in 1989 through a process of attrition, accelerated by forced
early retirements at age 55. Between 1987 and 1989, when large salary
increases contributed to the budget overrun, the overall civil service wage
bill increased less than 5 percent, roughly equal to the rate of inflation.
The overall wage bill will increase by 6.7 percent this year but is to be
held roughly flat in nominal terms in 1991 and 1992. To assist the
Government in tracking civil service employment, a computerized civil
service registry was put in place in 1989. However, a separate system is
used to follow the civil service wage bill and there are certain technical
differences between these two systems, such as the treatment of civil
servants seconded to non-government agencies.
54.       SAL IV measures.    To ensure continued close control over
personnel expenditures, the Government intends to develop a medium term
civil service employment strategy which will aim at controlling the number
of civil servants and the associated wage bill while enhancing the
efficiency of public administration through improved recruitment,
deployment and personnel management policies. As part of this effort, a
number of technical improvements will be made, including better
coordination of the civil service roster with the civil service wage bill.
In addition, the Government will assess Togo's civil service salary levels
and structure with those of other developing countries and will analyze the



20
evolution of the civil service wage bill over the medium term, based upon
different hypotheses. The development of such a strategy will be situated
within an overall effort to improve public sector management (see paras.
59-62). The Government also intends to put in place budgetary systems
permitting closer control over and supervision of spending in the social
sectors, linking expenditures to intended beneficiaries as through program
budgeting. The Government will review with the Bank and European
Community, which is expected to provide structural adjustment support as
well (see para. 105), the ensemble of current expenditures, particularly as
regards their impact on the satisfaction of essential social needs and
increased human resource capacity. Agreement with IDA on budgetary
allocations to be appropriated in the 1991 budget for the agriculture,
education and health sectors and for road maintenance is a condition for
release of the second tranche. Utilization of the amounts appropriated for
these sectors and agreement on budgetary allocations for these sectors in
the 1992 budget is a condition for third tranche release.
B.        Public Sector Management
55.       Background.  Togo's structural adjustment efforts have had the
objective of redefining the role of Government in the economy. Instead of
engaging in directly productive activities, Government's role is directed
to defining the economic environment in which private sector activity can
take place. The central instruments for affecting this environment are the
budget and the public investment program, which together largely define the
overall macroeconomic framework, and trade and commercial policy, which
define the regulatory and incentive framework for the private sector.
56.       As a consequence of the Government's structural adjustment
efforts to date, the relative roles and importance of ministries have
shifted within the Administration. For example, the significance of the
Commerce Ministry, formerly responsible for administering the foreign trade
licensing system, has been sharply reduced. By contrast, the relative
roles of the Finance and Planning Ministries have been enhanced. Yet, the
mandates, staffing structure, operations, and procedures of these
ministries remain virtually unchanged from the pre-adjustment period. Such
adaptations as have occurrel have been largely marginal and ad hoc. To
address these weaknesses, the Government has had extensive recourse to
foreign technical assistance to meet perceived critical needs. Technical
assistance grants have been on the order of CFAF 8 billion/year, equivalent
to roughly one-quarter of budgeted personnel expenditures for the
government as a whole. However, these largely disparate efforts have
translated into little enhancement of the institutional capacity of the
Administration which has increasingly proved to be a constraint on economic
performance. This can be seen most clearly in the limited capacity of the
Government to formulate and implement a public investment program or define
policy options (see paras. 19-20). One of the reasons for this lack of
impact is that the numerous foreign donors of technical assistance (the
Bank, the UNDP, the AfDB, the EC, as well as bilateral donors) have tended
to operate largely in isolation, without any coherent overall framework or
strategy.
57.       Sustainable growth and development requires an enhancement of
the Government's own administrative capacities. The Bank is already



21
heavily engaged in such activities aq part of current or envisioned
sectoral operations. Under previous Bank operations, major restructurings
of OPAT and the MISE have been undertaken. The recently approved IDA
credit for vocational education involves a major restructuring of the
activities of the Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education.
Additional work along these lines is underway in the areas of agricultural
services and health. In each case, institutional restructuring is
envisioned as part of planned IDA-financed projects. However, a similar
effort has not as yet occurred in the central economic ministries (Finance,
Plan, and Commerce), in spite of their altered importance in the new
economic context. Each poses somewhat different problems in adapting
existing capacities to new responsibilities.
58.       For the Ministry of Economy and Finance to manage adequately
expenditures and receipts consistent with policy objectives it is essential
that information systems within the Ministry and with other Ministries
function smoothly, that budgetary systems are consistent with policy-
makers' needs, and that the personnel within the Ministry are adequate to
their tasks. It is particularly important that budgetary systems be
designed to enable allocation and monitoring of spending by program (e.g.,
level of education) rather than by Ministry. The Ministry of Plan and
Mines' fulfillment of its complex and diverse responsibilities requires a
high degree of clarity in the definition of tasks and well-understood lines
of authority. However, as indicated by the shortcomings in investment
programming, the Ministry as currently organized does not appear adequate
to its mission. Operations within the Ministry are highly centralized with
lines of responsibility unclear, resulting in lengthy delays and weak
policy implementation capacity.   In the Ministry of Commerce and Transport
the central problem is the determination of an appropriate role for the
Ministry. With the regulatory functions it formerly exercised now
eliminated, much of the personnel of the Ministry have no effective
function. In addition, the role of this ministry in the transport sector
is not clear as much of the investment in this sector occurs through the
Ministry of Equipment, Posts and Tel cc-miunications or, in the case of
rural market roads, the Ministry of Rural Development.
59.       SAL IV measures.  During the 1990-92 period the Government
intends to engage in a systematic effort to enhance capacities in the three
key economic ministries. This effort will involve an in-depth examination
of each of the three ministries on the basis of which action programs will
be developed to address deficiencies identified. As a first step, the
Government intends to undertake this year a diagnosis e_ each of these
three ministries, comparing their responsibilities against their current
administrative and human resource capacities. The diagnostic study will
enable the Government to define, for each ministry: (a) its mandate and
strategic objectives; (b) the organizational structure best suited to carry
out the given mandate; (c) a staffing plan to improve the mix between job
content and required skills and to serve as a basis for defining carefully
focussed training and skill upgrading programs; and (d) the development of
an integrated program of priority actions (IPPA). The IPPA will define
capacity-building requirements in the following areas: (a) technical
assistance (TA), (b) systems design and development, (c) improved work
methods, information flows, and operating procedures, (d) training, and (e)
equipment and logistical support.



22
60.       The Government has already initiated work to this end.  Three
working groups have been established, one per ministry. These groups have
prepared terms of reference for this diagnostic study and the methodology,
the work plan and the financing arrangements for the study have been agreed
to. Recruitment of consultants required to carry out this study is a
condition for the effectiveness of the proposed Credit. The diagnostic
study of the three ministries is expected to be completed by June 1991.
The IPPAs developed as part of the diagnostic work will provide a coherent
framework for managing donor support for capacity-building in the core
ministries. To ensure better coordination of donor efforts in this area,
the Government plans to hold a donors' meeting on institutional development
in the second half of 1991, at which time it will solicit support from the
Bank and other donors for the institutional reinforcement measures
identified in the IPPA. In conjunction with this, the Government will
develop an overall strategy with respect to TA which will focus on
maximizing its institutional impact and effectiveness. This work will be
supported by the UNDP, through a National Technical Cooperation and
Programming (NaTCAP) exercise, and will be discussed with potential donors
at the conference on institutional development envisioned for the second
half of 1991.   Adoption and comencement of implementation of an action
plan based on the recommendations of the diagnostic study for the
reorganization of the ministries of Planning, Finance and Commerce are
conditions for release of the second tranche.
61.       On the basis of the agreed IPPAs, the Government will undertake
with the support of donors the necessary measures for institutional
reinforcement in each of the ministries. This will involve, among other
things, implementation of staffing plans, establishment of information and
management systems, and execution of training programs to improve
productivity. Substantial progress in the implementation of the action
plan for the reorganization of the three ministries including, inter alia,
adoption and implementation of staffing plans, establishment of management
information systems, and execution of staff training programs is a
condition for release of the third tranche.
62.       In parallel with this effort, the Government will improve
employment practices at the level of the civil service as a whole as part
of a coherent medium term civil service employment strategy. In addition
to improving procedures for forecasting and controlling civil service
expenditures over the medium term (see para. 54), this effort will also
include addressing systemic constraints limiting civil service
productivity. To this end, and based on the diagnostic work of the three
key ministries, the Government intends to undertake in 1991 an in-depth
study of functional factors affecting civil service efficiency, including
inter-ministerial relations and roles, employment needs consistent with
budgetary realities, and recruitment, training, and promotion policies.
Based on this study, which will cover both analytic work relating to the
evolution and control of medium term employment levels as well as assess
functional factors affecting overall civil service efficiency, a program of
action will be prepared and implemented over the 1991-92 period.
Completion of the diagnostic study to improve the efficiency of the civil
service and agreement on and commencement of implementation of an action
plan to address functional problems affecting civil service efficiency are



23
conditions for release of the second tranche.   Progress in the
implementation of the agreed action plan will be a condition for release of
the third tranche.
C.        Public Enterprise Sector
63.       Background.  Public enterprise reform is a central feature of
the Government's efforts to promote the private sector in Togo by
maximizing the scope of activity of private sector operators. Accordingly,
privatization and liquidation of public sector enterprises has been a key
element in the Government's structural adjustment programs. Under previous
SALs, the Government rade significant progress in divestiture of public
sector enterprises. From an initial public sector portfolio of 73
enterprises, the number of public enterprises had been reduced to 50
through liquidations and privatizations. These privatizations have been an
important means to attract foreign participation. Eight of the fourteen
privatized firms have some form of foreign participation, most recently
evidenced in the sale of the two textile mills to a group of Chinese
investors. In addition to serving as a vehicle to attract foreign
investors, the privatization effort has also provided significant revenues
to the Government, through sales of assets on the order of CFAF 10 billion
(US$ 38 million). Additional fiscal gains have resulted from payment of
taxes and duties, which otherwise would not have taken place, by privatized
firms.
64.       SAL IV measures.  The Government will continue to rationalize
the public enterprise sector during the 1990-92 period. Its efforts in
this regard will be concentrated in three areas: continuation of its
program of divestiture; enhancement of the autonomy of firms remaining in
the Government's portfolio; and institutional reforms to increase
Government efficiency in this area. Implementation of these actions should
serve to regularize the Government's involvement in this sector.
65.       The Government intends, by the end of 1990, to complete the
divestiture of the six public enterprises remaining under the first program
covered by SALs I-III. Those enterprises which would not have been
privatized by 1991 will be liquidated. In addition, under SAL IV, the
Government will implement actions envisioned under its new privatization
strategy articulated last year, involving the divestiture of a further 18
enterprises. For three of these enterprises, CNCA (Caisse Nationale de
Crddit Agricole, the rural credit bank) and the Hotels Miramar and
Tropicana, the necessary measures for their liquidation have already been
taken. For another six enterprises, consisting of a bank (BALTEX), an
insurance company (GTA), a food processing company (SATAL), an oil palm
plantation (SONAPH), a commercial firm (SONACOM), and a maritime transport
company (SOTONAM), the Government will undertake diagnostic studies to
determine whether these firms should be privatized or liquidated. The
necessary arrangements in each case will be put in place by June 1991. The
remaining nine enterprises (a brewery, three banks, a cement grinder, a
flour mill, a match factory, an industrial gas plant, and an agricultural
equipment firm) consist of mixed enterprises in which the Government's
share of capital ranges from 5 to 90 percent. For these firms the
Government will seek to sell its shares, giving first preference to
Togolese investors. The Government will define by March 1991 the specific



24
procedures it intends to pursue in effecting its divestiture. Satisfactory
grogress in divesting from these eighteen enterprises will be a condition
for the second and third tranche releases.
66.       For the 26 firms, many of which are public administrative
agencies, which will remain in the public portfolio the Goverrment has
prepared a draft law defining the legal framework in which they will
operate and providing for an appreciably greater degree of autonomy in
their decision-making. This law is expected to be adopted by the National
Assembly shortly. The necessary legal implementation measures governing
the new law are expected to be signed before March 31, 1991 and the legal
statutes of twelve of the public enterprises (including the most important)
will be revised in conformity with this new legislation by the following
October. The statutes of the remaining public enterprises will be revised
shortly thereafter. In parallel with this, the Government is to prepare a
list of public enterprises subject to performance contracts. The
appropriate performance contracts are to be signed by end-October 1991.
The promulgation of the new public enterprise law, and issuance of the
necessary implementing decrees as well as the revisions of statutes of
twelve of the most important public enterprises will be conditions for
release of the second tranche. Revision of the statutes of the remaining
fourteen public enterprises will be a condition for release of the third
tranche.
67.       In the area of institutional reform, the Government has put in
place the new organizational structure of the MISE agreed upon as part of
SAL III.  The necessary staff training has been largely completed and it is
expected that the other necessary operational procedures will be in place
by the end of this year. The Government also intends to extend the
management information system developed under SAL III to all public
enterprises by the end of this year and to include a number of additional
key public enterprises, notably the phosphate company (OTP) and the social
security fund (CNSS) in the regular program of audit. Efforts will also be
undertaken to increase the transparency and accountability of public sector
enterprises with firms being called upon, in light of their improved
financial situations, to increase their contributions to the budget through
servicing of their external debt (see para. 48 above). In addition, the
Government has begun the process of fiscalization of the major public
enterprises (most notably OTP) with the objective of subjecting these firms
to the current fiscal regime in lieu of the old system of direct
contributions to the Government. As part of this effort, the Government
will undertake an analysis of the financial ties between the public
enterprises and the Government and among public enterprises themselves.
Based on this work, the Government will develop, by March 31, 1991, a
program of action to address any imbalances identified. The settlement of
all existing overdue cross debts between public enterprises and the
Government and among public enterprises themselves will be a condition for
release of the third tranche.
D.        Industrial Sector
68.       Background.  Light industry is an important source of growth in
Togo which the Government has sought to promote through creation of a
favorable enabling environment. Key to this has been efforts to maintain



25
Togo's competitive position by keeping its inflation rate below that of its
trading partners. Through fiscal and monetary discipline the Goverrnment
has been able to achieve an effective real depreciation of roughly 19
percent between 1983 and 1989, offsetting the deterioration in Togo's terms
of trade of about 17.5 percent over the same period. Togo confronts
increasing competitive pressures frum Ghana and Nigeria, which have
substantially reduced their real effective exchange rates through
devaluation. However, Togo's competitive position does not appear to have
been significantly eroded, a view supported by the recent sale of two
textile mills to foreign investors who intend to produce, at least
initially, for export.
69.       Supplementing these efforts at the macroeconomic level,
structural measures taken under SAL III, notably the new Investment Code
and the creation of Free Zones (see para. 15), are expected to increase the
attractiveness of Togo to investors, particularly foreign investors.
However, the response of small and medium sized Togolese investors to this
environment has heretofore remained relatively weak, in spite of an avowed
Government policy to promote small and medium investments. Part of the
problem in this case has been lack of Government follow-through in the
provision of necessary measures to support Togolese investors.
70.       SAL IV measures.  'With a generally favorable overall framework
for investment, the Government's efforts in this area will be focussed on
improvement of mechanisms already in place. The capacity of the Enterprise
Assistance Division of the Chamber of Commerce to provide support to
Togolese industrialists will be strengthened through UND4-funded technical
assistance. In addition, by the end of this year, the special fund to
finance feasibility studies for small and medium investors created under
the IDA-supported Private Enterprise Development Project will be made fully
operational.
71.       Continued maintenance of Togolese competitiveness will depend
upon controlling and reducing domestic production costs. Over the medium
term Togo's inflation rate is expected to be on the order of 3 percent a
year which should ensure that Togo's production costs remain relatively
low. However, Togo's performance in this area will be monitored closely
throughout the 1990-92 period.
E.        Agricultural Sector
72.       Background.  The agricultural sector accounts for roughly one-
third of GDP and its future evolution will therefore be critical for Togo's
medium term growth prospects. Under previous adjustment programs, price
incentives to domestic producers of export crops have been substantially
enhanced. In the context of the new export crop pricing system, Government
has indicated its intention to seek to achieve economies in marketing and
processing of export crops to maximize returns to the domestic producers.
However, given the significant cost reductions which have already occurred
in OPAT, further savings in export crop marketing may be difficult to
achieve. This, together with the outlook for several of Togo's primary
commodity exports (coffee and cocoa) implies that increased production of
food crops and other non-traditional exports will assume particular
importance.



26
73.       SAL IV measures.  During the 1990-92 period, the Government's
efforts to this end will focus on the provision of a more supportive
institutional environment. Of particular importance in this regard are
improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of agricultural support
services as part of a reorganization of the Rural Development Ministry
under an IDA-financed project currently under preparation. Under this
project, the technical services within the Ministry will be reinforced;
agricultural research activities will be consolidated and strengthened with
food crop research regrouped under a single directorate; specific programs
of livestock research will be undertaken; and a restructuring and
enhancement of capacities in the area of seed production will occur.
74.       Increases in agricultural productivity will also depend
importantly on increased application of fertilizers. At present,
fertilizer use is fairly extensive in the production of cash crops but only
8 percent of the area devoted to grain production benefits from use of
fertilizers. The system of distribution of fertilizers for food crops and
other non-cash crops needs to be improved to increase this coverage.
Current distribution of these fertilizers is handled by a Government
agency, the Service d'Engrais et Moyens de Production (SEMP), which
provides fertilizers to the regional rural development agencies (DRDR), who
in turn sell them for cash to farmers. Inefficiencies in the SEMP make
distribution costs high and cause delays in fertilizer distribution. Lack
of repayment by the DRDR also makes it difficult to build up a revolving
fund for this fertilizer.
75.       To address this problem, Government has commissioned a study on
fertilizer consumption and distribution which is being undertaken by the
International Fertilizer Distribution Center (IFDC). This study will cover
the entire range of problems from distribution through fertilizer pricing.
The study is expected to be completed by the end of 1990 and will be the
basis for a coherent fertilizer distribution strategy and Government
progress in this area will be monitored as part of the agricultural
services project. In the interim, the Government will improve food crop
fertilizer distribution through the reorganization of the SEMP, as part of
the general restructuring of the Rural Development Ministry. In addition,
the Government has indicated in its Statement of Development Policy that it
will establish a working group, including Government officials and
representatives of the private sector, to study and make proposals
regarding the participation of the private sector in fertilizer
distribution.
76.       Increased agricultural output will also depend importantly on
expanding the potential external market for Togo's agricultural production.
In this regard, there remain unexploited opportunities for increased
exports of non-traditional crops, primarily foodstuffs, both within the
immediate region and outside. To take advantage of this potential, the
Government intends to pursue a vigorous export promotion strategy for non-
traditional exports, based on the work of the special Commission set up
under SAL III. A report of the findings of this Commission has been
prepared containing specific proposals for promoting non-traditional
exports, and the Government will adopt before March 1991 an action plan
based on the conclusions of this study. In the interim, the Government has



27
indicated its intention to eliminate administrative constraints to exports
which have limited the impact of the measure taken last year to permit free
export of foodstuffs within the ECOWAS region. To this end, the Government
will include representatives from the customs services and the Ministry of
Interior in deliberations of the special committee on exports and
disseminate information on the new policy to exporters and government
officials. The Government will also establish a permanent secretariat for
the special committee to be responsible for coordinating the export
promotion program and proposing ways to improve the quality and packaging
of export products. Government progress in this area will be monitored as
part of the regular SAL review process.
77.       A key component of the effort to increase agricultural
production is the development of viable rural financial intermediation
systems. With the bankruptcy, as a result of gross mismanagement, of the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), formal rural credit is provided
through some of the rural development agencies, individual agricultural
projects, and a nascent rural credit union system. As a first step in
promoting new rural financial intermediaries, CNCA will be liquidated with
repayment made to small depositors. To this end, the Government has
recently appointed a liquidator and the liquidation is expected to be
carried out over the next year. Additional finance will need to be
mobilized to meet budgetary needs consequent upon this action.
78.       To avoid a repetition of the CNCA experience, the Government has
set out in its Statement of Development Policy certain b4sic principles
which will underlie any new credit system. These principles restrict the
Government role in the provision of credit to the rural sector and
emphasize the autonomy of any rural credit delivery system. These
principles will provide an overall framework for the provision of market-
based finance to the rural sector. The Government is discussing with
donors, including IDA, financing of future rural credit activities based on
these principles.
F.        Human Resource Development
79.       Background.  In the current context, where a number of measures
have been taken to provide a generally favorable environment for private
initiative and activity, human resource development, through its impact on
labor productivity, has become a particularly important factor contributing
to growth and development. However, at present, the health and education
systems in Togo suffer from a number of structural disequilibria which
prevent them from providing their necessary contribution to economic
growth. These disequilibria have become more serious in the last several
years due to tight budgetary controls.
80.       In education, the combination of the large share of total
current expenditures accounted for by personnel and the large concentration
of current resources on higher education has meant that expenditures on
educational materials at the primary level amount to less than US$ 1 per
student. This level of expenditures is well below the minimum norm of US$5
per student considered acceptable and can be compared to over $100 per
student in developed countries. The lack of adequate educational materials
is almost certainly a factor contributing to the large number of students



28
who drop out or are forced to repeat studies. Only 20 percent of students
entering the primary system successfully pass out of primary education and,
on average, for each student successfully completing six years of primary
education, the Government has paid for a total of 30 years. Vocational and
technical training, where the links to labor productivity are potentially
the greatest, is characterized by a highly formalistic approach in which
training bears little relation to actual labor market requirements.
81.       In health, the heavy concentration of current expenditures on
personnel and the emphasis on hospital care generally with a stro-g
regional bias in the provision of health care service in the Lome area has
meant that the availability of primary health care services in rural areas
was particularly disadvantaged. Exacerbating these disequilibria is the
relatively high rate of population growth in Togo, in excess of 3 percent a
year, which, if continued, will further strain education and health care
delivery systems.
82.       SAL IV measures.  During the 1990-92 period the Government
intends to put particular emphasis on the provision of adequate levels of
basic education and primary health care services. A number of specific
measures will be taken to address existing problems in each of these
sectors. In education, a number of measures are envisioned to improve the
quality of educational services and to increase the contribution of this
sector to the government's objective of growth with equity. In the context
of an IDA-supported vocational and technical education project, a major
program of institutional and structural reforms will be undertaken tc
enhance the effectivene3s of government services in this area. The
objective of this program is to link more closely technical education to
actual labor market needs, to enhance the productivity of the training. To
this end, training centers will be regrouped to avoid overlapping and
training activities will be based on a dualist approach. The capacities of
the Ministry of Technical and Professional Education to analyze and follow
labor market needs will be strengthened through the creation of a Training
and Employment Observatory (Observatoire de l'Emploi) which will provide
feedback to the different training institutes regarding the relevance of
training programs. A special fund, le Fonds National d'Apprentissage, will
be set up which will be financed through the existing vocational training
tax and which will support specific training projects. To ensure that
training needs correspond to actual labor market demands, industry
representatives will be involved in allocation of funds to the various
training activities.
83.       In the area of general education, in an effort to address
systematically the question of sectoral priorities, the Government intends
to elaborate and put in place over the 1991-92 period an educational sector
strategy. This strategy will permit appropriate allocations of financial
resources between different educational levels (primary, secondary, and
higher education) as well as between different categories of expenditures
(personnel versus material). In the elaboration of the strategy, priority
is to be given to the acquisition of basic educational skills (reading,
writing, and arithmetic) in primary education and the acquisition of
scientific knowledge at the secondary and higher education levels.



29
84.       In the health sector, the Government has defined and adopted, as
part of an IDA-supported health sector adjustment operation, an overall
health sector policy. This policy focuses on improving primary health care
and, in so doing, ensuring a better balance in the delivery of health care
services. This will imply a greater decentralization in the provision of
health care services and involve a restructuring of the health care
delivery system. To correct past underfunding in this sector, the
Government will increase its own budgetary contributions towards recurrent
expenditures from CFAF 5.5 billion in 1990 to CFAF 6 billion in 1991, CFAF
6.4 billion in 1992, CFAF 6.9 billion in 1993, and CFAF 7.4 billion in
1994. This will imply a real increase in the Government's contributions to
recurrent expenditures on the order of 4-5 percent a year. In addition,
the Government will increase the share of non-personnel expenditures in the
budget to 35 percent by 1995. To supplement its own budgetary
contributions, the Government also intends to put in place a cost recovery
system for drugs. This system, once fully operational, will ensure that
the provision of essential drugs can occur on a sustainable basis.
85.       An integral part of the Government's strategy in this sector is
increased attention to population issues. There is substantial evidence of
an unsatisfied demand in Togo for family planning services. To address
this issue, the Government has prepared a national population policy. As
part of this policy, increased efforts will be made to educate the
population on family planning issues and increase the supply of
contraceptive items.
86.       Critical to the success of the Government's efforts to promote
human resource development will be the levels of spending and their
distribution within the health and education sectors. Accordingly, the
Bank's approval of recurrent expenditure levels in these two sectors will
be a condition for release of the second and third tranches (see para. 54).
To this end, the Bank will review with the Government, in advance of
appropriation, the amounts to be requested, including the breakdown by sub-
sector and type of expenditure (e.g., personnel versus material). Actual
expenditures in these areas will also be reviewed with Government
throughout the course of 1991 and 1992 to ensure effective implementation
of the budget consistent with the agreed levels.
G.        Social Dimensions of Adjustment
87.       Background.  The Government's efforts during previous adjustment
programs were necessarily focussed on measures needed to reestablish the
basis for economic growth. Relatively little attention was paid to the
social impacts of the policy choices taken. For example, controls on
public expenditure in the face of a growing population led to some decrease
in access to basic health and education services, in spite of efforts in
recent years to maintain or increase social spending levels. On the other
hand, certain of the adjustment measures appear to have had beneficial
distributional impacts, most notably the increase ir. real prices of cash
cru-z paid to farmers. For example, incomes of coffee, cocoa, and cotton
farmers together are estimated to have risen by 97 percent in real terms
during the 1982-86 period, in response to higher cash crop prices.



30
88.       It is clear that in the absence of the adjustment measures
taken, the economic environment would have been even worse with necessarily
negative impacts on the poorest. For example, through more efficient
management following privatization, employment in several of the public
enterprises, such as the steel mill, which otherwise would have been lost,
was preserved. However, throughout the structural adjustment period the
lack of instruments and institutional mechanisms to measure and take into
account the social impacts of policy choices prevented the Government from
adjusting or reformulating policies in light of their social impacts.
89.        SAL IV measures.  In the context of the current phase of its
structural adjustment program, the Government intends to initiate a major
effort to integrate social considerations into the policy process and to
strengthen its capacity to analyze social developments as a consequence of
policy choices. Its objectives in this regard are threefold: first, to
improve its capacity to evaluate and assess social conditions over time;
second, by integrating social considerations into policy formulation ex
ante, to ensure that policy choices are made in recognition of their
potential social impacts and thereby to help ensure the maximum
participation of the population, including the poorest segments, in the
benefits of economic growth; and third, by identifying groups which have
been adversely affected by adjustment to put in place programs to mitigate
any transitory social costs of the adjustment process itself, particularly
as it affects the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
90.       To achieve these objectives, the Government has already
undertaken a number of specific actions. To provide an institutional
framework for activities in this area, it has organized, under the aegis of
the committee responsible for the review of the structural adjustment
program (le Comite Interministeriel Restreint de Suivi du Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel, the CIR), a special SDA committee to follow the
social dimensions of adjustment. To this end, the responsibilities of the
CIR have been expanded to include explicitly the consideration of social
dimensions of adjustment. This SDA committee, which includes
representatives from all the ministries involved in the structural
adjustment program, will act as a liaison with the CIR on questions
relating to the social dimensions of adjustment.
91.       The SDA committee has, in turn, created separate working groups
in the areas of employment and income, nutrition, health, education, and
housing. These groups include both representatives from government
agencies as well as from organizations outside government (NGOs, donors,
and local entities). The working groups are responsible for preparing
sector studies and analyses on the basis of which specific policy proposals
can be formulated, including the identification of short-term measures, to
be incorporated in specific social action programs, to attenuate the
effects of adjustment policies. A study of the labor market has already
been completed, analyzing factors affecting employment creation in Togo. A
number of specific recommendations to improve employment possibilities are
advanced and are expected to lead to formal policy recommendations.
Similar studies will be undertaken in other areas covered by the various
working groups.



31
92.       To increase its capability to assess social conditions, the
Government has begun work on the development of a set of social indicators.
This set of indicators, which is based on existing Togolese data systems,
will permit the regular tracking of social conditions in Togo. In parallel
with this, the Government has started work on the integration of social
variables in a macroeconomic model of Togo to permit assessment of
different policy scenarios in light of their social impact.
93.       Work is also underway to adapt existing instruments to permit a
better appreciation of the social impacts of policy choices. As part of
the preparation of the investment budget, the effects on employment of
different investments will be included in the basic project dossiers
utilized by the Government for investment evaluation. In additior., the
Government intends to undertake a systematic analysis of public
expenditures, particularly in the social sectors, in terms of their impacts
on vulnerable groups.
94.       To ensure continuous progress in this area, the Government
intends to organize by the end of this year a seminarlworkshop on the
social dimensions of adjustment. This seminar will group together the
various parties working in areas of SDA interest: employment, health,
education and housing, macro-modeling, statistics, and public expenditures.
It will include both Government officials and non-governmental
representatives, including NGOs, and special expertise will provided by a
limited number of technical experts. The seminarlworkshop will review the
state of work in the various areas of activity (macromodeling, statistical
systems, sectoral work) and will have as objective the development of
concrete proposals and propositions which can be retained by the Government
in its public investment program or integrated into its preparations for
the Donors Roundtable Meeting envisioned for 1991. As an outgrowth of this
seminar and the preparatory work associated with it, SDA activities are to
be defined (e.g., priority social action programs aimed at vulnerable
groups) for eventual inclusion in specific projects. Development and
commencement of implementation of an agreed action plan including specific
measures to improve the standards of living of the poorest segments will be
conditions for release of the second tranche and implementation of the
agreed action plan will be a condition for release of the third tranche.
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT
A.        Economic and Financial Impact
95.       In response to the policy measures put in place under the
program, real growth is expected to increase steadily over the 1990-92
period under the scenario discussed with the Government as part of its
Policy Framework Paper for 1990-92. Based on recent discussions with
Government this scenario has been Lj4dted, but the same medium term pattern
remains (see Table 3). After declining ti 1.9 percent this year as a
result of drought conditions and weaker demand for Togo's primary commodity
exports (coffee, cocoa, and phosphates), growth is expected to accelerate
in 1991 to 3 F *,ercent and reach a level of 4.8 percent by 1992, remaining
at roughly this level through 1995. The main sources of growth are



32
agriculture and light industry. In agriculture, increased producer prices
since 1986 have occasioned a strong supply response in cash crop
production, which increased over 10 percent in 1989. Particularly
impressive has been cotton production, which increased 36 percent between
1986 and 1989. After declining in 1990, real growth in this sub-sector is
expected to pickup in 1991 as world market prices for coffee and cotton
increase from their 1989/90 lows and new cotton ginning capacity comes on
stre. Food crop production, which has shown strong growth in recent
years, is also expected to expand in the near term. Overall, agricultural
growth on the order of 5-6 percent per year is anticipated over the 1991-95
period, slightly below the 6-7 percent rates experienced in 1988 and 1989.
The projected rate of growth, which the Government considers realistic
based upon past performance, will require sustained efforts to improve
agricultural productivity and enhance marketing opportunities, particularly
for food crops. In addition, further expansion in cotton production is
projected, implying continuation of efforts to maximize prices paid to
producers. Shortfalls in agricultural growth, either because of internal
or external factors, will affect both GDP and the balance of payments,
increasing medium term financing needs. Manufacturing, benefitting from
the generally favorable economic environment and recent special investment
incentives, is expected to enjoy rapid rates of real growth, albeit from a
very small base, with projected increases on the order of 5-9 percent per
year. Growth in the 1991-92 period will be boosted by the resumption of
textile production from two large textile mills, recently privatized. By
the mid-1990s, annual growth on the order of 7-8 percent is anticipated, a
rate comparable to the rate of growth experienced during 1988-89, prior to
the introduction of the new investment code and export processing zones.
Manufacturing growth rates of this order, while ambitious, are achievable
if the positive investment environment is conserved and Togo's competitive
position is maintained. Rates of growth in other sectors are expected to
parallel overall GDP growth although continued fiscal restraint will keep
growth in the tertiary sector below the overall rate.
Table 3
Summary Indicators, 1990-95s Base Case
(in percentages unless noted)
1989      1990       1991      1992       1993       1994      1995
Real GDP
growth    3.8        1.9        4.3       4.8        4.7        4.8       4.8
S/GDP     13.2       11.8       13.5      14.5       15.0       14.9      14.8
I/GDP     20.5       22.3       22.7      22.7       22.5       22.5      22.5
X/GDP     45.3       41.4       41.1      41.1       40.8       39.8      38.9
M/GDP     52.6       52.0       50.3      49.3       48.3       47.4      46.5
Current
Acct.  -137.0    -204.9    -208.6    -199.1    -195.0    -207.2   - 221.0
(US $ Mil)
96.       Under this scenario, after a sharp deterioration in 1990,
internal and external balances are projected to improve gradually over the
1991-95 period. Domestic savings as a proportion of GDP are expected to
fall sharply this year and with investment rising relative to GDP, the
resource gap is expected to increase to 10.5 percent of GDP this year.



33
However, with the resumption of growth anticipated next year, savings as a
proportion of GDP is projected to rise to 13.5 percent in 1991 and remain
at roughly 15 percent during the 1992-95 period. With investment leveling
off at roughly 22.5 percent of GDP, the resource gap is projected to
decline gradually from 9.2 of GDP in 1991 to less than 8 percent by 1995.
97.       Togo's budget and balance of payments deficits are also
projected to decline as a percent of GDP over the 1990-95 period. By
limiting increases in current expenditures, the fiscal deficit to GDP ratio
is forecast to decline to 3.3 percent of GDP by 1995, a level which is
sustainable over the medium term. For the balance of payments, merchandise
exports are expected to decline in 1990 in CFAF terms, reflecting weak
demand for Togo's main primary commodity exports, phosphates, coffee, and
cocoa. However, demand for phosphates is expected to pick up in 1991. At
the same time, cotton exports are expected to continue the growth they have
experienced since 1985 and manufactured exports to show strong growth in
response to the favorable enabli;g environment.  Set against this,
manufactured re-exports, equivalent to roughly one-third of total exports,
are expected to grow slowly over the 1990-95 period, showing littie if any
growth in real terms in response to continued weakness in regional demand
and increased competition from other countries in the region. In addition,
informal exports, not recorded by the customs, and which are estimated at
another twenty percent of total exports, are also expected to show slow
growth, further pulling down the overall rate. Overall, merchandise
exports are expected to increase by roughly six percent per year in dollar
terms between 1991 and 1995.
98.       Imports are expected to grow less slowly than GDP over the 1990-
95 period, reflecting slow growth in imports of goods destined for reexport
and substitution of domestic production of foodstuffs for imports. In
addition, informal imports, not cleared through the customs, are also
expected to experience slow growth. Outside these items, other imports are
expected to grow in real terms roughly in line with GDP over the 1991-95
period when growth is expected to accelerate. As result, the trade balance
(measured fob/cif), after a sharp deterioration this year to US$175
million, is expected to remain in the range of US$165-180 million during
the 1991-94 period, before increasing to US$195 million in 1995. With
interest payments expected to decline in nominal terms due to debt
forgiveness actions by France, Germany, Canada and Denmark, the current
account deficit (exclusive of grants), after increasing sharply to 12.6
percent of GDP in 1990, is expected to decline steadily as a percent of GDP
to 8.9 percent by 1995.
B.        Social Impact
99.       The Government's program is anticipated to have a significantly
positive social impact. At the macroeconomic level, real private
consumption is expected to increase steadily from 1991 to 1995, with
private consumption growth turning positive in per capita terms in 1993 and
growing at over 2.5 percent in per capita terms by 1995. In addition,
specific features of the structural adjustment program will serve to
maximize the social impact of this growth, consistent with the Government's
objective of growth with equity. The SDA elements of the program are
particularly important in this regard. Implementation of this component



34
will provide the government with the technical tools and the institutional
mechanisms to formulate, carry out, and measure the effect of macroeconomic
and sectoral policies on social variables. This will permit the Government
ex ante to select among policy options according to their anticipated
social effects and adjust policies ex post in light of their actual social
impacte. As part of its work in this area, the Government will also
identify potentially vulnerable groups for eventual targeted social action
programs.
100.      Other components of the program are also expected to have
positive social effects, either directly or indirectly. Efforts to promote
agricultural production, through improved delivery of agricultural services
and inpvts and expansion of market opportunities, will increase incomes of
the relatively poor segments of the population. Efforts to promote human
resource development, through a reorientation of expenditures in education
toward the primary level and in health toward decentralization of basic
health services, together with associated budgetary reforms designed to
link more closely budgetary allocations to specific programs, will also
benefit the least well off by reducing expenditure distortions which have
primarily benefitted urban elites.
C.        External Financing Requirements
101.      Reflecting the weaker export earnings prospects, the current
account deficit, exclusive of grants, is expected to increase in 1990 to
US$205 million (see Table 4). It is projected to stay at roughly this
level in 1991, and remain at that level before increasing to US$221 million
in 1995. Amortization during the period 1990-92 will be on the order of
USS 60-65 million a year, not including rescheduling relief. Togo's
position as a regional banking center has meant that it has been the
recipient of significant short term capital inflows. A portion of these
inflows are transferred abroad by Togolese banks and show up in the balance
of payments as reserve increases, even though the Government is only able
to draw on these reserves to the extent that it has budgetary resources
available for this purpose. Consistent with this situation, an increase in
gross reserves is envisioned during the 1990-92 period. An additional
external financing requirement will arise as a result of the budgetary
needs derived from the liquie ton of CNCA. These requirements are
expected to be concentrated it, L990-91, amounting in total to roughly US$
30 million. In sum, Togo will have total external financing requirements
during 1990-91 of US$290-320 million per year, with the financing
requirements expected to decline to the level of US$275 million by 1992 and
increase gradually to around US$290 million by 1995.
102.           Togo is currently expected to receive US$170-190 million
per year in long term capital inflows and grants during the 1990-92 period.
It can also expect to receive around USS 45 million per year in other
capital flows (direct investment, short capital inflows, etc.). In
addition, the Paris Club recently provided substantial additional debt
relief covering the second half of this year and running through the first
half of 1992 in the context of a multiyear rescheduling. This relief
totals over US$ 90 million beyond the relief already accorded Togo through
the first half of 1990. In total, Togo is expected to receive financing
flows in 1990-91 on the order of US$270-280 million per year, decreasing to



35
US$250 million per year in 1992 and 1993 with the conclusion of Paris Club
relief and then increasing to US$270-290 million per year in 1994-95.
103.      Togo is projected to confront balance of payments financing gaps
during 1990-93 averaging roughly US$ 28 million per year. These gaps are
expected to decline sharply in 1994 and be essentially eliminated by 1995.
Filling these gaps will require additional balance of payments support.
The Government has already initiated discussions with the European
Community in the framework of Lome IV regarding finance from the
Community's Structural Adjustment Facility. A minimum of US$ 12 million
could be made available to Togo under this facility beginning in 1991,
assuming it is pursuing a structural adjustment program. The African
Development Bank will also begin discussions later this year on a Third
Structural Adjustment Credit which could go to its Board next Spring. The
amount of this credit could be on the order of the Second Adjustment
Credit, i.e., UAI5 million or US$ 18 million. In addition, Togo is
expected to request additional balance of payments support from Japan in
the context of the second phase of the Special Program of Assistance.
104.      The above scenario is based on an oil price averaging in 1990
around US$ 21/barrel and remaining at around US$22-23/barrel during 1991-
92.  Higher oil prices will necessarily increase finan-.ng requirements, as
substitution possibilities are limited. However, the direct impact on Togo
of all but sharply higher oil prices will be relatively small. With Togo's
electricity supply largely derived from hydroelectric sources, oil imports
are primarily refined products destined for the industrial and transport
sectors. As a result, imports of oil and refined products are relatively
modest, amounting in 1989 to only US$ 25 million, equivalent to 6 percent
of total imports.
105.      The proposed US$ 55 million SAL IV will finance roughly 6
percent of Togo's total projected financing needs over the 1990-92 period.
More importantly, it will provide essential support to meet balance of
payments and budget needs this year and will furnish the framework in which
other fast-disbursing assistance, notably from the EC, AfDB and Japan, can
be mobilized. The combination of SAL IV finance plus funds mobilized from
other donors is expected to cover Togo's projected financing gaps through
1992. The financing needs forecast for the 1993-94 period are projected to
be met through fast-disbursing assistance provided through sector
adjustment operations; the proposed Credit is expected to be the last
structural adjustment operation for Togo. In addition, the Government has
requested IDA support for commercial bank debt reduction; the main effect
of this would be felt in the period 1992 and beyond when amortization
payments to banks resume. Total debt service savings from an elimination
of this debt would be on the order of US$ 14 million per year over the
1992-95 period.
D.        Downside Risks
106.      The above scenario is predicated on sustained implementation of
the macroeconomic and structural elements of the reform program described
above. However, the Government's commitment to pursuit of macroeconomic
objectives, such as reductions in the fiscal deficit, may falter,
jeopardizing the program. Alternatively, the pace of implementation of key



36
structural measures, such as administrative reforms, may not be as fast as
envisioned. Finally, the external environment may not evolve as favorably
as assumed here. These principal risks are discussed further below.
107.      International developments.  The prices for key exports may
weaken further and the demand for export volumes evolve more slowly. This
could have negative effects on the balance of payments, reduce the
Government's fiscal receipts, and generate negative supply responses. The
effect of these measures would be to increase Togo's external financing
requirements.
108.      Weak domestic supply response.  The SAL IV program assumes
positive supply responses by the private sector to the positive enabling
environment created by the Government. It also assumes further efforts by
the Government to promote agricultural production by increasing the
delivery of inputs and enhancing market opportunities for domestic
producers. However, the responsiveness of private investors to the
positive investment incentives in the industrial sector may be slower than
anticipated and Government actions to increase productivity and demand in
the agricultural area may be less effective than envisioned. The effect of
these developments would be decrease GDP growth and increase import
requirements, threatening the viability of the program.
109.      Government commitment.  The Government's implementation of the
structural adjustment program may be less vigorous than envisioned. This
could occur through less aggressive efforts to control expenditures,
resulting in larger internal imbalances. Associated with this, measures to
improve the rate and productivity of public investment may not take place
as envisioned. The effect of these factors would be to increase current
budgetary expenditures at the expense of public investment and to reduce
GDP growth due to reductions in the level and quality of public investment.
110.      The Downside Risk Scenario (Table 5) illustrates the combined
effect of these adverse developments. The principal features of this
scenario are the followingt
(a) international prices for the main exports evolving less
favorably such that export prices by 1995 are 10 percent below
the levels foreseen in the base case scenario;
(b) because of weaker world market demand, phosphate production
remains at 1990's depressed level and growth in production of
export crops occurs at rate. 50 percent below those retained in
the base case scenario;
(c) weaker supply response by the private sector as manifested
in slower growth in the manufacturing and food crop sectors
(roughly half the rates of growth foreseen in the base case
scenario);
(d) the overall level of investment declining from 22 percent
of GDP in 1990 to roughly 20 percent of GDP by 1995, i.e., the
level of investment during 1987; and



37
(e) weakening in fiscal discipline as manifested in the wage
bill increasing in real terms.
ill.      The downside risk scenario is characterized by sharply lower GDP
growth, with real growth negative in per capita terms, and a deterioration
in internal and external balances. Exports of goods and non-factor
services would grow significantly lower than under the base case. As a
result, the resource gap, which would improve to 7.6 percent of GDP by 1995
under the base case would remain unchanged at around 9.5 percent of GDP
between 1991 and 1995. The fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) would
behave similarly: increasing to 7.9 percent of GDP in 1995 as compared
with a projected improvement to 3.3 percent under the base case. Togo's
external financing requirements will increase correspondingly. Instead of
a steady reduction in the financing gap after 1993, resulting in its
virtual elimination by 1995, the financing gap would be substantially
higher with a financing gap on the order of US$ 85 million remaining in
1995. Over the entire 1990-95 period Togo's financing gap would increase
by over US$300 million. Real investment levels in this scenario are
substantially below those in the base case scenario, by up to 18 percent by
the end of the period, implying reduced capacity for growth in the medium
term.
Table 4
External Financing Requirements: Base Case
(US$ millions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Current account 11       -205.0  -208.7  -199.1  -195.1  -207.2  -221.2
Amortization              -66.4   -59.5   -58.8   -62.9   -63.4   -47.5
Change in arrears           0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
IMF (net)                  +5.8   +13.1   -10.0    -8.1    -6.5   -10.0
Change in reserves        -21.1   -43.8    -7.3    -9.6   -11.5   -11.5
CNCA                       -7.3   -23.1      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing
Requirements           -294.0  -322.0  -275.2  -275.7  -288.6  -290.2
Disbursement, grants      122.8   120.9   129.7   125.9   127.3   137.4
Disbursement, loans        50.5    59.3    67.3    86.1    93.4   101.1
Other Capital flows,
net                      44.9    44.1    32.5    34.6    52.7    51.8
Rescheduling               55.5    59.1    22.4       0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Financing
Resources               273.7   283.4   251.9   246.6   273.4   290.3
Gap                        20.3    38.6    23.3    29.1    15.2    -0.1
l/Exclusive of grants



38
Table 5
Selected Economic Indicators, 1988-95
Billions of CPA?                              Projected Annual Growth Rate
(1978 - 100)              Act.   Est.       Base Case     Downside Risk
1988   1989    90-92   93-95   9a-92   93-95
GDP (market prices)         214    222       3.7      4.8     2.1      2.6
Agriculture                70      75      5.3      5.5     3.0      3.6
Industry                   46     47       1.8     4.0      0.5     2.0
Services                   98    100       3.3     4.5      2.2     2.0
Private Consumption         151    158       2.6      5.4     1.6      2.6
Public Consumption           33      30     -0.9      4.2     2.3      4.9
Gross Investment             43      46      7.2      4.4     4.2      0.9
Exports of Goods + NFS      124    126       2.4      2.0    -0.3      1.0
Imports of Goods + NFS      137    139       1.3     2.6    -0.1       1.2
Ratios (Z)                                          Proiected
(based on current prices)  Act.   Est.       Base Case       Downside Risk
1988   1989    1991    1995    1991    1995
Investment/GDP              20.2   20.5    22.7    22.5    22.1    20.7
Public Invest.GDP 11         7.3    7.6      8.6      8.2     8.4      7.9
Domestic Savings/GDP        10.6   13.2    13.5    14.8    12.4    11.4
Exports GNPSIGDP            43.7   45.3    41.1    38.9    40.8    38.4
Imports GNFS/GDP            53.2   52.6    50.3    46.5    50.6    47.7
Current Account (US$) 21 -177.7 -137.0  -208.6  -221.0  -221.8  -241.5
Current Account/GOP 2/    -13.0  -10.2   -11.3    -8.9   -12.3   -10.8
Debt Service/XG&S           24.3   16.4    15.0       9.4    15.4    10.0
Debt Service/GDP            11.1    7.8      6.2      3.6     6.3      3.8
Govt. Rev.jGDP 2/           24.0   22.9    23.5    21.7    23.1    20.8
Govt. Ex.jGDP               29.3   29.1    27.6    25.0    29.1    28.7
Govt. Def./GDP 21           -5.3   -6.2    -4.2    -3.3    -6.0    -7.9
l/Excluding public enterprises
2/Excluding grants



39
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.        Financing
112.      It is proposed that the Government's Fourth Structural Adjustment
program be supported by an IDA credit of SDR 39.6 million (US$ 55 million
equivalent). The proposed Credit would be disbursed in three tranchest a
first tranche of SDR 18 million, equivalent to US$ 25 million, followed by
two tranches of the SDR equivalent of US$ 15 million each. The somewhat
larger amount proposed for the first tranche reflects the financing needs
associated with liquidation of the CNCA which is expected to take place in
1990-91. The second and third tranches would only be released after the
Government had made satisfactory progress in implementing the program and,
specifically, in meeting the conditions proposed in paras. 117 and 118
below. The proposed credit is expected to be disbursed over the period
1990-92 and would finance about 2 percent of the projected imports of goods
and services and would cover roughly 6 percent of Togo's projected
financing needs over this period.
113.      The proposed three tranche disbursement is based on several
considerations. First, full implementation of several of the key features
of the proposed program will extend over the entire 1990-92 period. This
is particularly true for the administrative reform elements of the SAL,
which because of their far-reaching nature, will require adequate time for
successful implementation. A third tranche will permit orderly execution
of the structural reforms while assuring the Bank of a means to monitor
agreed performance. Second, Togo's financing needs are expected to be
concentrated in the 1990-94 period. The proposed Credit is expected to
provide finance and serve to mobilize financing from other donors to meet
needs projected for the first part of this period. Because of time lags
associated with mobilizing this support, extending the credit over the
period through 1992, by a three tranche disbursement, will maximize the
catalytic impact of the Credit. Projected financial requirements in the
1993-94 period are expected to be met through sector adjustment lending
possibly supplemented by debt service savings from a commercial bank debt
buyback.
114.      To date, no specific co-financing pledges have been made in the
context of SAL IV. However, as noted in para. 103, the European Community
already expects to provide to Togo a minimum of US $12 million in support
from its structural adjustment facility as part of the Lome IV Convention.
The Community has been particularly interested in the aspects of the
structural adjustment program involving the integration of social
dimensions of adjustment; representatives from the Community actively
participated in the development of this element of the program. In
addition, the African Development Bank will begin preparation shortly of a
third structural adjustment credit for Togo based upon the Government's
program. Finally, the Government is expected to request structural
adjustment finance from the Government of Japan based upon IDA support for
the Government's program.



40
B.        Monitorable Actions
115.      The specific measures to be supported by the proposed Credit are
set out in the Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex V) and
are summarized in a policy matrix (Annex VI) which also sets out the
timetable envisaged.
116.      Before credit effectiveness, the Government will have recruited
the experts required to carry out a diagnostic study for the reorganization
of the ministries of Planning, Finance and Commerce (para. 60).
117.      It has been agreed with the Government that the availability of
the second tranche, envisioned for December of 1991, will be contingent
upon satisfactory overall progress in the implementation of the structural
adjustment program and the undertaking of the following specific actions,
all in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
(a)  A three year rolling public investment program (including
investments to be financed with the proceeds of phosphate
counter-trade) for 1991-93 has been agreed with the
Association (para. 51).
(b) Agreement has been reached with the Association on budgetary
allocations to be appropriated in the 1991 budget for the
agricultural, education, and health sectors and for road
maintenance (para. 54).
(c) A new government procurement code has been enacted (para.
52).
(d)  An action plan based on the recommendations of the
diagnostic study for the reorganization of the ministries of
Planning and Mines, Economy and Finance and Commerce and
Transport has been adopted and the implementation of this
plan has commenced (para. 60).
(e)  A diagnostic study to improve the efficiency of the civil
service has been executed, an action plan including specific
measures recommended by the study has been adopted, and the
implementation of the action plan has commenced (para. 62).
(f) (i)   a law establishing the new institutional and legal
framework for public enterprises has been enacted;
(ii)   implementing decrees for said law have been issued;
(iii)   the statutes of twelve selected public enterprises have
been revised;
(iv)   and substantial progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the liquidation and privatization
program (paras. 65-67)



41
(g)  An action plan including specific measures to improve the
standards of living and productivity of the poorest segments
of the Togolese population has been adopted and the
implementation of the action plan has commenced (para. 94).
(h)  Satisfactory arrangements have been made to ensure
preshipment inspection of goods imported into Togo (para.
121 below).
118.      It has been agreed with the Government that the availability of
the third tranche, envisioned for December 1992, will be contingent upon
satisfactory overall progress in the implementation of the structural
adjustment program and the undertaking of the following specific actions,
all in a manner satisfactory to the Associations
(a)  A three year rolling public investment program (including
investments to be financed with the proceeds of phosphate
counter-trade) for 1992-94 has been agreed with the
Association and that the applicable portion of public
investment program agreed for 1991-93 has been carried out
as envisioned (para. 51).
(b)  Agreement has been reached with the Association on budgetary
allocations to be appropriated in the 1992 budget for the
agricultural, education, and health sectors and for road
maintenance and that budget allocations agreed to in the
1991 budget have been appropriately utilized (para. 54).
(c)  Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation
of the action plan for the reorganization of ministries of
Planning and Mines, Economy and Finance and Commerce and
Transport including adoption and implementation of new
staffing plans; establishment of management information
systems; and execution of staff training programs (para.
61).
(d)  Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation
of the action plan for improving the efficiency of the civil
service (para. 62).
(e) (i)   The statutes of the remaining fourteen public
enterprises have been revised;
(ii)   substantial progress have been achieved in the
implementation of the liquidation and privatization
program;
(iii)   and all existing overdue cross debts between the
Government and public enterprises and among public
enterprises themselves have been settled (paras. 65-
67).



42
(f) Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation
of the action plan for improving the standards of living and
productivity of the poorest segments of the Togolese
population (para. 94).
C.        Management and Coordination of the Program
119.      Overall responsibility for management of the program will rest
with the Minister of Plan and Mines. As was the case under SAL III,
interministerial coordination will occur through the existing Comite
Interministeriel de Suivi du PAS (CIS) and day-to-day implementation will
be ensured through the committee responsible for the review of the
structural adjustment program (le Comite Interministeriel Restreint de
Suivi du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel, the CIR).
D.        Procurement, Disbursement, and Retroactive FinancinB
120.      The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of
eligible imports, excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items and goods
intended for military use. Direct imports by the Government and public and
private entities will be procured according to simplified international
competitive bidding procedures for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 1.0 million per contract or more. Goods estimated to cost less than
US$ 1.0 million would be procured through price quotations from at least
three reputable suppliers eligible under IDA guidelines. Imports by the
private sector for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 1.0 million
would be in accordance with normal commercial practices in Togo, which are
acceptable to IDA. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers
from two countries would be sought. Financing of imports of petroleum
products and foodstuffs would together not exceed SDR 13,900,000 of
disbursements under the proposed Credit. Up to SDR 8 million of the total
amount of the credit would be made available to finance retroactively
expenditures incurred up to four months before the expected date of the
signing of the Credit Agreement in order to meet 1990 budget and balance of
payments needs.
121.      Togo introduced a new tariff code as of January 1. 1990 and the
Government has agreed to study the possibility of including duties and
taxes on imports for foreign-financed projects, reducing incentives for
customs evasion. The effectiveness of the implementation of the customs
system will be examined in the context of the diagnostic study of the
Finance Ministry. The Government had instituted a pre-shipment inspection
system in late 1988 but suspended the contract in early 1989 on the grounds
that it had led to a decline in customs receipts due to a diversion of
trade to neighboring countries. However, upon the conclusion of the
diagnostic study of the Finance Ministry in 1991, the Government is
prepared to reintroduce a pre-shipment inspection system.
122.      The Government will establish a Special Account, on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, in the Central Bank to facilitate
disbursement. Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial
disbursement of CFAF 1.5 billion into the account. The account would be
replenished regularly and up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis



43
oft (i) fully documented reimbursement applications for import contracts
exceeding US$100,000; and (ii) statements of expenditure (SOE) for Import
items between US$10,000 and US$100,000. Disbursement applications should
be aggregated with a minim:m replenishment application of SDR 500,000. The
Government will entrust the BCEAO with the responsibility for preparation
of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for collection of documents
to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications. These
records and accounts, including those for &OEs, will be maintained and
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the
audit report will be provided to the Association not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year. All documents and supporting expenses
incurred by using SOEs will be kept and made available to IDA supervision
missions for review.
PART V - RECO4W!NDATION
123.      I am satisfied that the prop-ed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
124.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1990
Attachments



44
Soda  xchloos qDvd          lt  98                                                                     N        I
TOP
Sbew~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 o d _UU*
156                                                      53 98  .6  52.                  245        60.2       $7.4
=41WO taram                      ofDit         O.!       Oil's                 0 3-19,    3.41       Q61
Fb per 1001_w
Utb                   rd ... . ..
Se S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.3                             .972                 6.1        3.7       3.
Ud^JnYd_t                diS^e              ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~3.3  4.1  SO0  4.1       2.2       2.S
P p=p q          0am                   Imthmp              Sao                  4.8        6         3,62S       gS
bft     w' 6M                          6.0                             4 .   .
MT   dathlili                        Input     rp         I50                   14064     6.56       3.89       4.0
dzlbts e =-dK Mep                                         AX 9                 14         t.         174.8       S.6
lis expemm a W:o                         sea            42.0       47.0       53.1      50.        61.4       63.8
(sunk                                 4316       4U7       SO         5z3        62.3       6&1
Totibbtorf                                                 %7         I4        1$.34   1 89         I     ,    4 232
. s~~~~~~~~~~~~q cc                amlX          1       74.           -....
F=U*                                                                31813U     36S       3ao        3660       312
Fsmwper 100Ma_
3    "      b                           @~~md          35.l      34348       29.9      340S       3499       23.5
NATUIIALURESCES
Area                                    X4L tq. kml         57         57         57     22,42      3697       14,13
DDI                  s41IX1I             .29        ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~40  57  20  1"6  703'6
ABb d                             %*01MAZe            22.       21T4       21i.       32.        36.1       3S.
Jdaut                   p;w.l=41slil        126~~~~~~~~~~li  l41  199        62        211         94
Fon and woodlxd st.l5Ss ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                  5 2014        6,W3    9,154        5,449
Dafn              tEI                                 2.0       -25        -3A .543.
Actoselbr                     5cM,               ..~~~~~~~of.op  16.0  57.0    36.5...
U                                         ..       49.0     laO. 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO  75-5  73.4  767-
"  ~~~~~    lQO ~~~~~~401.     24.2               ..       46.3
roud=-PW                                   wamorh                              ewho           U_8col "U
** *^ wab ** a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S V
i w  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~o



45                                                 ANNEX I
Sodail I4dicwm of Developmnot. 1989
Togo
Saw )   momIi.   cow' VOW       nq
INCOME AND POVERTY
GNP .rcapna (mm z1988)                        LUS               Ito        260         370         320        310       1.270
Tota household incoue
Shor to top l0% of bouseoIds              6ie
whr  totpW% of bouseficids
tomwcses40*ofbcsbis.
Sha,atobmom 20%b clofsho
Absolut proeaty .come. tueos             ussper pnices....
Pop. ilkobsolet povat.uty bs.                   tpp..                         .
pmvalma cotmalnuuiua (tUadeS)             %ot arge pe..                               25.0
EXPENDrr3E
Food                                        *CoD(p... 
Met,fisb, milk, chess. egg
CereaJl Ponos                                                                           86       8.252 twm27.738       36.712
aid                                                          ..6                   l        3.786       712         71
CIDP  ~     ~       .tOP44.7                      266        33.         31         33.0        10
Doily                         .lmiupsspsusm         2,378S      2.043      2.20                               2,7 6?
Amdverag hos boldsing                  %ose     GDPe~is.          .6
Fad and pmw                      %~*(GDP...
a~pift                kg of oiluwims          27.0       59.6        52.3      103.7       322.        86.
TraoRmto and comunodeotb                   q6 .tGDP 
Eqx*b   pwrpumgercor                                            Si        1.521      Ln37i..                               27
INWSTMENT IN HUMAN CAP7AL
haspisabed                                          ..        70.                       .        756
Accs sobsabb am                             Ib  spt
.tdn(under 12 meftb): RsI4a                                                                             43A ,6Z.6
or,"            -                   41H                     413   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64.7
Ord Rahdrazicnbempy a  mudu5)               %ot(in                ...                  9.0        18.4        21.6       28.2
so  cba" 14mgrw         59                     1000.0io    78.        99.3       106.8
Secondury: oal*.0                                                        11.0        21.0        2.         33.4        5.
female              *               LU          v.0 ~ ~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~ 100a2.       26.1       51.8
TmtadA  seaee..4 oafterwiiuy ews"                                           9.2        14.2
PW&pilptseMkC           so         60          5040                   10          28
23         44          2335                   19          18
Pq&  mdbg Mt&fohas                                     .           ..4.                               .         1.0
*1ctslrlu                          28L6        34.                                 8.0
SpIM(SPISO  gai                    59.3       53.4        43.3        2.
41aff  p 1314)        !                    R."S        64.0       565          2.
Nwpp ---   ooapor thu. ap                                    6.2         3.1        5.1         5.2       20.4        79.3
SaCu3 



46
ANNZX II
7 1NW 19110                                                                  I=   M  W   NW1 oneW    tIMlfW
-. -----TDU.B1. 1160: B o  'A ' IFII         1CI eV inter GPA03 fy
-(I CurOm CM Pme, biI toIo)^
1960      196619966  196         19w   16         I9    11   16    18   1994  .19
Aer.tcsturet Prl_ry Prodctls.     6.0     112.0  1        06.1  15.9  137.7  14.1  1151.1  16.4   17.2  198.5  210.4  869.8
rem Crop.                       44.6      69.0  80.1  76.8       66.7  69.6       97.8  1.7   2.0  121.8   A.4  144.7
Ca& Cro                         4.8       1.5  15.5  18.6        14.4  14.0       10.7   1.2  17.0  I8.7  20.8  86.5
Oth.r PrInry Poe"ctfe           16.4     80.7  8D.0 .8 .8        S.*   87.8       42.7  45.5  49.3   5.4  57.8  62.5
Secondary Sectr Producc          S9.5      69.5  69.6   1.1        064.s  07.4      6.1  10.9  1061.7  118.2  1 7.5 1t7.7
"Iisas                          27.2      28.9  19.4   1.8       27.8   8.1      21.9  19.8   0.5  31.9  88.6  64.6
Phosphate                    21.   1  m.   28.8  11.6          81.2  88.0       #1.4  26.0  16.1  80.2 1    1.4  8#.7
Clinker                        0.8       0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
oterw                          0.6       0.6   1.0   1.5        2.0   1.1        1.5   1.8   t.4   1.6   1.8   2.1
91macrtwring                   1t.6       22.2  21.8  88.1        1.6  86.8       86.1  41.9  45.8  80.0  54.6  59.6
r d Pr_eecing                  9.8       l.5  18.s  14.2       15.8  18.7       90.1   141.  24.0  26.6  26.4  82.6
Teutti ima Clothing            $.5       8.6   4.0   4.1        4.8   8.8        5.9   6.0   6.5   7.1   7.6   6.2
Wood Proeaseng                 1.4       1.6   2.0   A.8        2.8   2.7        1.8   8.0   8.8   8.6   8.9   4.8
Popov an Paer Product          0.4       0.6   1.0   1.0        1.2   1.2        1.1   1.8   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7
Otooloal Product               1.0       1.1   1.0   0.7        1.9   2.1        1.4   1.6   2.9   8.0   8.1   8.2
inSei-                         1.6       8.8   A.4   4.0        8.7   4.0        4.2   4.8   4.5   4.7   4.0   5.2
metlluaricl raduatre.          0.6       0.5   0.6   0.         0.7   0.7        0.7   1.1   1.8   1.4   1.7   1.9
Oter NIt worm                  0.4       0.6   0.6   0.9        0.9   1.8        1.8   1.8   1.l.   1.4   1.7   1.7
Othwr _mfactriw                0.1       0.1   0.2   0.8        0.8   0.4        0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.9
Contrution                      7.7       11.6  14.5  14.1       14.1  tS.9      1t.4   t.6   17.0  10.4  81.0  86.6
Sttcitp a Wer                   5.8       6.0   9.0  10.5        11.   11.9       12.   14.1  15.5  17.0  18.7  OD.5
Tertiary Setor ProdWtion         14.6      186.6  1*.6  171.9       184.0  167.1   *00.7  214.0  228.8  264.5  21.4  178.7
C cS                            8.4       60.1  66.2  88.8       91.8  9c.a      1a.a6O  186.6  17.4  116.  136.8  147.4
Troftpor6                       28.1      22.2  21.6  21.1       V7.8   1.0       80.8  82.8  86.8  87.0  86.6  42.8
PblI*i Adstne ten               22.0 291.5  21.9  81.1           64.4  84.5       86.4  87.5  88.7   8.8  41.0  42.2
other Srvice                    17.2      1.8  21.7  27.8        20.6  81.8       81.0  86.4  88.1  40.0  45.8  46.7
Cr oen CP ab lnrket Prite       260.0      818.1  862.8  84.9     46.8  426.7      447.1  479.8  816.7  86.2  59.4  646.2
Lt_  atTirco Teas                19.0      41.8  41.7  40.0        45.5  44.1      47.9  80.2  84.0   5a.9 68.2   7.5
Voiue-,ad d   Ft ctr cs"        2U.1       2".9  8M.7  84.0        60.8  832.6     899.2  416.0  462.7  496.8  8A7.1 S7.7
NI__redus tem:
(itn percantae of currm%tor- at D.P.)
Pril_y Stor Preotien             97.       88.s 13 S64.8ti  A.4    86.96  8.8ti     86.86  8413  84.86  84.68  8I.1s  WO.6
Secoart y Setor Productio        24.5       WA.S  19.25  ?.        20.s8  22.65    21.85  21.85  21.21  21.16 211.8  21.8
Tertiary Set  Productn           4.        44. 40.03  4646         46i.as  46.      44.9  44.76  44.#  44.tl  48.85  48.1
SourcS OWticial  overwt date3
8ak "f  ett. & prJt.



47
ANNEX II
7 f41v 199                                                                     TM0 -L V1 3W -3   CA= WMI *0182111W
- ---- ------TAU S. TM006  tNaTWP  MOlM  XT C'WASTW 1976
* FreAe bil 1gm)
iw        1965   198   196        lU               1 90   199    19    198   199   29
Cram D..ti* Prdut (so)           110.1      194.0  1.0.6  90.8      11.6  2111.7      .0   111.6   1.0   M.*   MA.1   U4.a
Priaerp (up)                     49.7      61.9   U.9  66O         70.1  76.6       77.8    .0  67.8  93.5  97.7  14.3
seceeary (ip)                    49.0       a.   80.4  41.6        46.6  48.9       45.4  47.1  49.6  61.1   W.   6.4
Te,tlas  (up)                  106.4      9.4  91.6  90.4         96.0   9.6      1497  186.4  19.9   5.0   MA.  15.6
Tore of Tad E1Stoct               -6.8       0.7    4.1  -2.7       -4.1    .4        -1.1  -1.7  -1.6   4.8   -1.6  -0.6
Grow omtlc  leat.                19.8       19.6  104.7  100.9      138.6   ss.12    14.9  11.8 614.6  186.a  19O.5   M.?
Asmeure SBp                       11.0       7.4   14    *.a        1s.a   6.6       1s.7  18.8  10.7   9.6  10.6  11.
Impr of G ooa w.s             115.9      10.   1.   1s4.7        27.4  18.8       1s.1  10.2  1.8  147.4 s111.6  1i.6
1*OCI to zg.0                    U.9       WA   18.2  31s.2       3".l       O      M    11.9. s2211ss..1 las.1  140.7  14a.4
eVroc of Good* a W'S             190.1       1.1  10.    17.9       14.1  1.4         0.6  S16.6  1.6  14.8  142.8  144.0
Touta leegre Aeal table          305.4      902.1  1I.1  $10.4      116.6  16.6    24.6  84.2 278.  US.?  200.1  1.6
Teol COa ptle"                   1t44.6     14.1  174.9  160.2    1W.7  16.12    191.2  198.7  19.1 210.5  219.1  1S1.7
Iabbl t                                    80.8  40.0  40.8        s6.8  87.0       a7.s   Ws.8   #.9   85.4  89.8  41.7
Privat. imel. M                 144.6     114.0  184.0  119.0     146.9  180.6     18.4  1s7.2  12.1  1.1  19.6  190.1
Toutl  Steent                     60.9       85.6  48.2  41.2        46.1   45.6      80.4   8.4  66.1   W.   60.9  66.9
che In Stak.                       0.4       8.8   1.6   4.7          8.4   1.6        1.1   1.2   1.2    1.    1.4   1.4
Fixed Capital P1nti..             60.4      ,47.   46.6  8s.S        86.6   4a.8      49.0 a   S   u4.6  56.9  69.6  62.4
Oe.ragmt aed FE                 44.8   aQ.9  29.0  16.9            11.2  11.6       11.6  2T.0  11.4  2e.s  80.6  81.8
PrIVat Setar                     16.2      U5.6  17.6  t7.6         8.6  10.2        1.6   2.s   2a.5  21.5  29.6  81.1
Orono Dematle Sewing              49.2       46.4  219.9   1.7       20.8  87.0       sa.7  40.1  45.4  48.0  A0.4  S2.0
Faact  Sevie Icome                -6.6     -11.7  -10.6  -9.1        -6.5  -7.6       -8.6  -4.0  -6.8  -4.6  -4.2  -4.0
4t4 Caarrent Tranfer               7.1       15.6  15.6   9.6        1.2 1  1.9       12.7  12.1   U1.0  11.a   10.7  10.7
craf ""tilnal ftege               12.9      58.2   83    82.6        82.5  41.8       40.6  46.8  12.1    .0  86.9  g8.$
ar" Na1tiol Produc               1o9.5      1s1.   189.9  194.4     205.0  214.2     110.4  M1.6  14.7  214.0  2116.9  10.2
Ora   tinal l_o                  190.2        .9  14.1  11.?        105.0  217.6     119.6  21.       . 291.2  2U.7  65.6  1t.7
0Perceatege ee of COP, current prig)"
RAomr. Sp                        1S.1         6.9   1.7   8.6         9.5   7.8       10.5   9.2   6.2   7.5    7.6   7.6
Imort Sof am"  a W4.2                      57.6   8.$    .32       8.2   2.6        1.0   0.6  49.8  46.8  47.4  46.5
_mot of Co a Ws                 51.1       40.0  44.5  42.6        46.7  45.8       41.4  41.1  41.1  40.6  89. 89.9
Toul Cm1onuptiom                  1.0        S0.1  67.7  86.4        0.4  t8.8        63.1  86.5  85.8  65.0  86.1  85.2
Toutl lavot0me                    80.1      11.6   24.0  20.2        20.2   2J.5      12.3 6 1.7  22.7  22.5  12.6  22.5
<r1s* 0_1eatic SewIng             17.0       19.9  12.6  11.6        10.6  1S.2       U.    18.5.  t4.5  1S.0  14.0  14.8
Ore. Natial Seing                 1.2 .      17.5  tS.8 .1 15.9      18.2 1   .6     1t.1  19.6  31.1'  21.6  21.0  20.6
N.wandv. tt..=
CUP Implit  1ofla                 1U.       174.6  80.7  5.        1t90.2 1tO.5    1t7.9  208.4-=99.2  21.1  11t.1  267.6
1wlu11iit Cenm    Price ade     1t7.7       16.2 1 M.7  1a.$        t97.s  19.7      106.8  211.09  221.6   .0   M'S  287.4
Avw r e mpor PrZice Index          1.7      1 7.6  18.1  186.9      1.S  112.0       16.9  171.9  177.1  t#.4   87.6  1t9.
Avero" Impor Price ldex          1181       1.   164.6  14..9       187.2, 16.8    U14.6  185.5  172.4  176.1  154.0  192.4
Isteaml Teor of Trad lad          90.7      101.0 t15.6 95.7   o 9.9  105.9           0.8  98.0  97.4  97.7 08.4  99.8



48                                               IU               ..
7 tin  19                                                                       TM   ML IV  OMCAN  rIWN WADMIiU
-.------------TASES. 1005: ft  me1. 40 &   IOP   SMC   T CJVMI--.-..---
(U CA fflttc, 8tIIlem)1                _     --      _
Iwo'      19ta   1      107       18ti   1 two      199   1911   1992   18   199   199
Uppl  Sof Rwe.                     9.S        8.0  865.2  o6e.9      69.4  6.81       0.5  7M0.   m.*   2.0    .8' 904.8
Orong Smtic Product             20.0    8.1A   8.8  8A4.0         406.8  421.7     47.1  479.8  538.7  586.2  59.4  546.2
IqJoi of Goode & tfw            3.0        195.6  08.8  192.0      116.1  924.4        .4  241.0   24.5  260.8  164.1  80.0
Gas" ,tf                     J185.0      .015   1I8.7  t.82      375.9  383.0      3 11.1  194.7  106.8  238.9  m2.7  240.5
NORF.cPtr btrvic.              19.0       89.1  88.1   8.0        40.2  42.8        44.8   46.8  40.1  49.9   u.5   84.0
lbe. O Rg.wm.                     894.1     80.0  8.2  M6.9           2.4  SU.1        7.    7.   M.1  M.o   20.   946.0
Gross Douamtic U*.gditer..      171.4      808.2  404.0  407.t     448.0  418.0     494.1  M.   8118.9  89.1  644.0  69M.4
Ciaumptlon                    199.1       70.9  3U7.7  88A.4     868.1  870.8      894.5  414.   441.6  47.0 '510.51  80.
Pubict, control got.                    86.1  72.8  78.7        72.6  74.6        77.s   70.2   61.9  87.0   92.T  98.
Frivoto                      1199.1    214.8  #4.1  20.7       190.8  295.7      816.6  8a .8' 8.7  86,4  417.5  481.4
IWO.*toft                      72.8      97.8  07.1  75.0         61.9   07.7       9.7  108.7  117.8  12.1  I*4.?  145.1
FPiard Capital Fdusrn        71.8       82.8   84.2  67.2       75.4   64.8       97.5  108.8  114.7  12.8  2.?  14.9
Pubtli Setor., Incl Pa      82.6      50.8  582.4  54.8        40.8  48.4       86.7  54.9  59.8   68.0  07.0  71.2
Privte Srtet                19.2      82.5  81.8   82.4        85.1  80.9       46.e   51.4   65.4  89.$  64.7  70.7
cbm_. It Stoek.               0.5       34.5   2.9    8.6        6.5   8.4         12    2.4    1.0    1;6   8.0   8.2
Kert. of amd A NFS              9.         185.  181.8  in9.7      177.4  18.1       1.8  197.1  2.a  8         168.6' 261.
GO.d.fb                        0.4       S.  15.0  30.1          1a8.8  14u.8      18.9  149.5  18.7  17S.7  3s8.4  195.9
bM-Fattr Serria.               21.2       86.7  88.7   89.6       42.1  48.6        45.8  47.6   49.0   51.2   51.2  55.4
cram Dosmlc Sevin"                 40.9      67.   44.6   48.5        48.1   8.5       82.7   S4.8  75.1   883.  689.1  V5.
Rs.gupg. Gop                       81.4      86.1  41.5  82.8         86.7   81.2      47.1   4a.9  42.2  41.0  48.5  40.2
No t FPeAtr  mam. lastl wo..  mit.   -4.4   -14.0  -14.9  -14.1      -14.2  -12.5      -9.4  -10.8  -9.5  -4.8    4.4   4.8
Gros. Netimi Product (O            25.6       4.1  847.4  86.8       8A.1  414.8      487.7  489.0  80.3  847.4  891.0  687.9
Ova. bUrnt Sa ving.                01.       12.6  8m.6   89.a        61.8  79.4       80.7   9441  19.1  32.        .7  18.8
Current Ace. Sicit. encl * j. ar.    .8.    -4.1  47.4  -46.4        -2.9   4.7       -56.5  -84.2  41.1   40.7  -81.9  47.5



49
AStEX_II
t Nay 190                                                                        1T0 - M  IV -  mS CASE! WMN *OAE11W
_.------T D-TE    4. T000: MAIN 288W411C MRC              ATOl C-
_--CtUIIL         _T0--                  _T_-
t186   19?       1 986 two         199    1901   192   15   1994 1998
CP Growth Rate                    3.43   1.83       4.93   8.8S       1.931  4.83   4.85   4.73   4.83 4.83
WY  rowth Rate                    S..=  -1."        6.83   8.8l      -0.fl   4.03   4.51   4.93   8.1S 5.8S
WY/Capita Growth Rte               1.63  -8.0S      2.93   2.13      4.83   0.73   1.21   1.83   1.83 2.MS
Total Cmw/Capitx Growth Rat.      18.83  .4.83      5.13  -0.e4      -1.73  -1.85  -0.83   0.9   2.2.  2.13
Private Conu/Capit, Oroth Ratt    12.6  -7.4S      10.21  -1.011    -1.2S  4.81  0.1U   0.9   2.73 2.7S
Total Debt Service NL* (in UW.   187.0  148.a      181.4  104.8     118.5  118.4  1(.4  110.7  10811.8 90.
Extornal 0bbt ServicejiN5 1/     29.4   27.9       25.4    7.8       18.9 1t.0  18.4   U2.7   11.8  9.4
Catrnal )ebt Servic.jX0A         28.2   26.7       04.8  1t.4        18.0   14.9    2.7   12.1   11.8  9.0
Debt Service/WP                   18.1   11.9      11.1    7.8        7.0    6.2    8.8    5.2    4.7  8.6
Gross Inveatnt/UP                94.0   20.2       20.2   20.8       22.5  28.7   22.7   22.8  822.  22.8
Domestic Savings/P               12.8   11.6      10.6  1s.2        1.8  18.8   14.1   18.0   14.9 14.8
Natinal SaviagsW                  15.2  1t.9       18.2   18.6       18.1   19.6   21.1   21.6   21.0 20.6
Ibrginal Savings Rot.             -1.9    0.1       0.0    0.7       -0.8    0.6    0.5  0*.    0.1  0.1
Public Investment/UP 2/          11.9    7.9        7.3    7.6        8.8    8.6    8.8    8.8    8.4  8.2
Publie Savings/UP /2              4.0  -1.1         2.0    1.4        8.2    4.4    8.1    8.1    8.0  8.0
Private Inveetment/Up 8/          11.4   10.0      11.8   12.1       18.8   18.6   18.6   18.8   18.6 18.7
Private Sevinwpu1P                6.8   12.7        6.7   11.8        8.S    9.1    9.8    9.9    9.0  9.9
Government Revenue/0P 4/         28.9   28.8       24.0  82.9       2=.7  28.8   28.8   83.8   8.2 21.7
Gavernuent Tot. Expenditure/UP   87.7   82.6       29.8   29.1       29.0   27.6   28.9   26.8   2s.8 28.0
Governmnt Defcit or. Surplus /CP   -8.8   -.0      -8.8   -6.2       -5.8  -4.2  -8.6   -S..  -8.4 -8.3
UP Deflator (1978.100)           180.7  184.2     1L90.2  192.5     197.9  208.4  289.2  21S.1  221.1 227.8
Annual 3 rate of change         8.8S   2.06      8.83   1.23       2.83   2.83   2.85   2.83   2.83 2.83
Exports of GM Grooth Rate        12.4t   9.15       5.8s    1 an     -2.2S   4.13   5.43   8.53   1.45 1.2r
Export, of S/UP                   "4.S   42.6      48.7   48.a       41.4   41.1   41.1   40.8   89.8 86.9
JIports of Sf8 Grawth Rat        08.23  -4.51      10.13   0.gS       0.83   0.73S  2.1    2.8#   2.83 2.73
laore Of Sf5S/UP                 86.8   81.2       88.2   52.8       52.0   s0.    49.8  48.8   47.4 46.8
Current Account (in USII) 4/    -168.6 -54.8    -177.7 -187.0    -204.9 -2t86.  -19.1 -198.0 -207.2 -831
Current Acount/UP 4/            -1S.8  -12.4      -1a.0  -10.2      -12.6  -11.8  -10.0  -9.1  -9.0 -8.9
1/ After the 1969 Parto _lub debt
reachoduI inan
2/ Central govornent only;
8/ Including public onterpriee;
4/ Excludine rante.



50
ANNEX II
7 NW 190 1                                                                        - TM   IV - _  CMiH 45*506W
!~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~            -     TA  5.  M     M=G
T-U .A 5.1 1U06: 11.N mP I I I              -.
1u    167 SW            1        taiw          low    MA   awe14       191
A. Lapra of O*do a we          465.9   1.2        0.6  6.4       671.0  781.1 "0.6  07.7  9. 17.0    86.7
1. M.re*ad"i. (lS           862.0   M.6      484.2  461.0      0.6  675.1  M7       e.  718.2       76.5
1. tb -fctor Srvie,         106.1  8t.7      141.4   7.4        .0   1.9  10.9  106.0  804.         118.2
S. Iwote af Gods N& 51 5.66  6.7                7.  7.           05.5 nf7.0  97.0 n5. ono.s           16.0
1.  rlwasl,ao (FMS          419.0  444.1     01.8  a8.$ 0     619.6  4165.1  11.7  74.6  70.6       665.6
2. N-Feotw Servc.            189.8  1".0    SIMS  1100.       $100.0  1.J  J17.8  2.  8.4             .4
C. Roorma .1m                 -12.2  -107.4    -1*0.0  -97.9   -110.9 -18.9 -101.4 -161.1 -178.0    -10.8
D. Nat Fator  c                -4J.1  -.        -47.7  -.1        W4.1  40.7  46.7  44.0  4.2          41.9
1. Fatwor Seeoipte           80.8  24.0       05.1   a.7       J7.4  41.9  42.8  46.1  45.5          44.2
(,r. Vo$ra Nlamittua)       0.5   0.7        0.4    a4        4.4   8.0   5.4   8.0   6.2           6.5
2. Factor X Papuata           M8   70.6       76.2  W0.8       71.   01.0  79.0  71.0  7v            76.1
(0/. Zatore*b Pay=t.)      45.1  44.2       8.4  06.1        47.1  54.0  80.8  47.6  *4.9          4i.0
E. NA Current Trwader.          04.0  80.1      08.6  41.4        77.7  60.6  06.5  66.3  61.9         11.0)
F. Current Ascosut Balmoo     -111.8 -106.1    -114.9  -75.0    -117.5 -1.    15.0 -0.0 -11.8    -186.
G. Long-Torn  Capital Ifle.     60.7  -15.5      45.0  48.4       46.0  69.5   W.I  75.?  06.4         1121.
1. Dire treign Investmet     19.0  18.8       11.4   9.4        7.6  12.7  18.7  13.6  14.0          15.2
-. Official Capitl Grant     46.5   ,.?       17.5 '16.        45.1  40.1  46.1 #0.7  46.4           06.4
S. Not LT Pre  La_           -S.5  48.2      15.1  -1.0      -15.9  -0.1   6.5   mi.0  80.0         00.6
a. Ol.araaamos            68.4  80.9       111.1   6.0       80.5  89.   07.   6,61       .4     101.1
b.  eyet.                   .6  104.1       06.0  66.5      06.4   9.5  66.0  e8.9  68.4          47.5
4. Ofto. Lf 3imf  Co)         0.0   0.0        0.0  04.9        6.0  1t.0   0.9  -o.0  -4.9           0.9
H. Total 0" item. (ne)          10.4  -1.7       13.6   O.0       16.0  14.0  16.7- 11.   86.0         #6.5
1.  ort-taa. err.. A cm..    10A4  -1.?        0.6  I11.0      10.5  14.e  10.7  11.9 '6             06.5



51
ANNEX II
7 NW  190                                                                       no  - oL IV - _    CM m W    As1t1W
11315 3.1 T1111111 465 U 7P 8A4563 'CO04-
a Cutrent US 41 Ser. St III ))
1M     1SW7      i1   19          1O   1911  19"    1m 1t94             *1m
I. Overall flatwe               -40.7 -114.0      41.1   4.8       45.2  -45.9  -0.4  -.13   2.0          21.6
J. Ch_trp. In teer_.. (- a 1rwr.)  91.   1 .9      5.1  -41.1      -18.3  40.51-17.3  -V.?  -18.1        411.8
1. U"tcCrdit f.v Dr           U1.  -14.0         0.3    1.6       8.0   18.1  -10.0   4.1 4.8.         -10.0
2. OCtwr Rbeerve Chag"        18.9   41.9        7.7  -4.6      421.1  .3.0  -7.3  -9.6  -11.8         -U.8
K. D0elRt R.l11 (Rechl. 4 Cel.)   7.2    0.0      151.6   46.4      85.8  89.1   0.4   0.0    0.0          0.0
L. Chaws It DEternot Arrsr        8.4   96.1    -106.   0Q0          0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0
M. Eatwul Finncing OVp            0.0  -0.1        0.1  -0.1        12.9  15.6   9a.3  19.0   15.1        -0.1
(- - ma-lu-)
M. CtA Liqidalion                                                    7.t   13.1
0. Total Eatenal Finatinr Need    0.0  -0.1        0.1  -0.1        10.1   S5.7  1s.a   89.0   15.1        -0.1
Shares of CDP (Curren U118)
1. Resourc. Sales.              -1.7  -6.4        -9.8  -7.S       -10.5  -9.2   4.1   -7.8  -7.6         -7.6
2. Teotl ntere" Pafae             4.1    3.5       4.1   2.9         2.9    2.9    1.5    11    1.9        1.7
3. Current Acont                -15.5  -12.4     -15.0  -10.2      -11.  -11.   -10.0  -9.1  -0.0         -6.9
4. LT Capital ntl. (Line 0)       8.5  -1.5        8.a    8.          .8    3.0    8.8    8.5    8.9       4.9
5. HNt Credit fr . the ]W         1.1  -1.1        0.0   0.1         0.4   0.7  -04.    -0.4  -O.8        -0.4
Namacandum IteSt
CDP (il low of UI)               1UI   1147        184    16        v1    1a   17    1899   1406          146
Foreign iboag Reoerve 1/
U. In'1 Rbee". (Is lid)        880.7  214.9      1.1  -.3          ...
2. Gold (ed Sr Lon" prie.)       0.01   o.01      0.01   0.   .      .0
a. Or _.. rom . los.1*14 I      811.7   44.9      M.1   45.3        ..
4. Or... Re. itn mth1 or ingrs    8.0    4.6       4.0   4.8         4.7   8.1    4.9    4.5    4.7        4.8
bExcange lute.(L./6
1. "lrnal Off. X-u  aFS rh)    846.5  800.8      207.9  U19.0       7.5  10.0  16.0  210.0  2t0.0        260.0
2. Real a. X-Rat go" 197        44.5  M9.?        84.9  873.1      M.    05.0   01.3   MA.9    6.5        204.4
8.  aitdI . (e.. 198.100)       100.0   o0.7      76.5  65.7        79.4   B.4   *7.6    6.9   64.t       f4.2
21 Intura". Fntmi. StaieIc.



52
ANNEX II
7 Nov 1990                                                                       ToM - SAL IV - 315 CASE WI  ADArIE
TAME  6. TOQOs WBIIUL 0   _43S    ROOUME AM    D 5Tfl-
(In Current CA Fronca, bill   bn)-      ---
-l<,CWL-              _ nD~T5-    -n                             _~l4T---
198e   1se7        1988  s190         1990   1991   192   1998   1994   1995
Totl Rervenue and grant.         20.5  9?.6         105.4  10.0        122.1  124      84.0  139.0  144.7  154.1
Ftcal Rfsene:                   78.7  78.7         79.6   88.6        68.1   s9.8   97.6  10t.9  110.2  117.2
gm                           1t.e    8.6          4.6    7.0          4.8    8.0    4.1    4.6    5.0    5.s
OPAT                           6.6    2.5         0.6    1.0          0.6    1.8    1.0    1.9    1.9    1.9
Cautom. duties                34.1   82.7        84.7   88.8         88.4   81.8   42.4   45.5   48.6   51.8
Other tax.s. extWIng meaUr rea   28.7  99.1      80.5   80.0         81.6   83.8   85.8   88.7   41.9   45.8
Other taxes, n_e _mur.         0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0    4.0    8.8    2.8    1.8    0.8
Other taxes. otber PEi         1.7    8.4         1.7    2.4          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Fiecal revenue from CPP        0.0    8.5         7.A    9.8          0.0    8.0   10.4   10.9   11.4   11.9
Nan Fiscal Renue:               26.2   18.6        17.7   18.6         22.7   29.1   22.7  28.1   22.7  28.8
Budetary                      10.9 0   .6         8.8    8.8          6.7    6.9    6.1    6.8    5.4    S.8
Financial PartIcipatton      0.9    0.4         0.8    0.8          2.8    2.8    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.1
Cntrihutims. pare-ada. oer   4.4    0.8         0.0    0.0          0.8    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    0.0
Other budgetary sontribut.   5.8    8.1         5.2   2.S           8.1    8.1    8.2    8.8    8.4    8.5
Non-budgetary                 15.8   11.0        12.2  10.          16.0   18.2   16.6   16.8   17.8   17.7
Automous Org. A other        8.8    x.8         5.7    4.0          4.8    4.6    4.9    8.8    5.0    6.2
Coneeted exprts              6.5    8.5         e.5   6.            6.5    6.s    6.5    6.8    6.5    8.5
Intret  Prine. from PE      0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0          5.2    5.1    5.2    6.0    5.0    5.0
Teol grant,                     15.6    8.2         8.1   10.4         18.8   11.9   18.7   12.0   11.8  13.6
Projet. grat.                 10.2    7.7         8.2   8.8         12.4   10.4   12.0   10.8   1.8   18.e
Exexptional grant.             5.4    0.5         2.9   2.1           8.9    1.5    1.7    1.7    0.0    0.0
Total Expenditure A Not Lnding   186.7  18.0        118.9  124.2        12&.6  182.5  188.7  146.2  15.2  161.7
Currnt Expenditure             90.8   98.4        89.8   91.6         91.6   91.2   94.1   96.9  108o.0  105.
Personel                    28.8   84.2        88.4   as.8        38.2   88.2  59.0   40.1   41.8   42.6
laterest an Ext. Debt       17.7  14.7         16.5   18.9         18.7   18.0   12.2    1.8   10.8    9.6
0/,: 1W Charge,           1.9    1.8          1.4    1.9         1.4    1.1    1.0    0.7    0.6    0.5
ateriel                     18.7   21.0         17.4   18.8        18.5   19.0   20.9  28.6   26.1  26.8
Transfer and Subvention.     38.    8.7         8.7    8.7          8.6    8.8    8.9    4.0    4.2    4.8
OthJr Curret EpendIture     12.2  10.0          10.9   18.8        18.2   18.0   18.4  14.8   14.8   15.4
Non-Budgeotry Expenditure   12.1    9.8         5.4    8.5          4.2    4.2    4.7    5.6    6.8    7.8
Nt Leding                       8.4    0.0         0.1    0.1          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Capital Expenditure            48.0   29.6        29.5  82.8          a8.0   41.8   44.S   47.8   80.2   58.2
fIP Countetredo              8.5    6.5         8.5    8.5          6.5    6.6    6.8    6.5    6.5    8.S
Other Capital Expenditure   88.    26.1        28.0   26.1         81.8   84.8   88.1   40.8   48.7   48.7
0/osi Nogbto Prject        6.5    5.8          2.5    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Overall O Deft., os_t. bael  1/  -41.8  -8.S        -21.6  -26.5       -28.7  41.0  -18.5  -19.2  -6.8  - 21.2
Domet, Arrear  - *decree)    -4.8    8.8          -s.     2.5         -7.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Exteral Arr   - - decreas)    0.7    8.8          -7.1    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
bOerel I Defcit. Cah basis 1/    -5.4  -24.2       -4.0  -14.0         -4t.8  -0.0  -18.5  -19.2  -20.8  -21.2
OverIa  Defcit, Csh baI-  8/     -18.8  -16.0       -28.9  -18.8       -18.0   4.1   -4.8  -7.2  -4.5  -7.6
(5 Share of 0P)
Overall lefit, Comit. basis 1/   -.8  -9.0          -4.8    .2         -4.8  -4.2  -4.6  -4.5  -8.4  -4.8
Overal DefIclt. Cash basis 2/    -9.5  -6.4          -1.9  -5.6         -7.0  -4.2   -.6  -4.5  -3.4   -a.3
1/ ExccidIng ofIciatl grnte.
2/ Icltuding *rrears cangs.
a/ Inludinf oficial grat.



53                           ANNEX III
TOGO
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMHET PROGRAM
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section Is          Timetable of Rey Events
(a)       Date of first presentation to IDA              November 1989
(b)       Appraisal mission                              July 1990
(C)       Completion of negotiations                     October 1990
(d)       Planned date of effectiveness                  December 1990
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section IIIs   Special Conditions
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$ 15 million equivalent
would be dependent upon satisfactory overall progress in the implementation
of the structural adjustment program and, in particular, upon the
undertaking of the following specific actions, all in a manner satisfactory
to the Associations
(a) A three year rolling public investment program (including
investments to be financed with the proceeds of phosphate
counter-trade) for 1991-93 has been agreed with the
Association.
(b) Agreement has been reached with the Association on
budgetary allocations to be appropriated in the 1991 budget
for the agricultural, education, and health sectors and for
road maintenance.
(c) A new government procurement code has been enacted.
(d) An action plan based on the recommendations of the
diagnostic study for the reorganization of the ministries
of Planning and Mines, Economy and Finance and Commerce and
Transport has been adopted and the implementation of this
plan has commenced.
(e) A diagnostic study to improve the efficiency of the civil
service has been executed, an action plan including
specific measures recommended by the study has been
adopted, and the implementation of the action plan has
commenced.



54                           ANNEX III
(f) (i)   a law establishing the new institutional and legal
framework for public enterprises has been enacted;
(ii)   implementing decrees for said law have been issued;
(iii)   the statutes of twelve selected public enterprises
have been revised;
(iv)   and substantial progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the liquidation and privatization
program.
(g) 'An action plan including specific measurea to improve the
standards of living and productivity of the poorest
segments of the Togolese population has been adopted and
the implementation of the action plan has comenced.
(g) Satisfactory arrangements have been made to ensure
preshipment inspection of goods imported into Togo.
Disbursement of the third tranche of US$ 15 million equivalent
will be contingent upon satisfactory overall progress in the implementation
of the structural adjustment program and the undertaking of the following
specific actions, all in a manner satisfactory to the Associations
(a) A three year rolling public investment program (including
investments to be financed with the proceeds of phosphate
counter-trade) for 1992-94 has been agreed with the
Association and that applicable portion of public
investment program agreed for 1991-93 has been carried out
as envisioned.
(b) Agreement has been reached with the Association on
budgetary allocations to be appropriated in the 1992 budget
for the agricultural, education, and health sectors and for
road maintenance and that budget allocations agreed to in
the 1991 budget have been appropriately utilized.
(c) Substantial progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the action plan for the reorganization of
ministries of Planning and Mines, Economy and Finance and
Comerce and Transport including inter alia adoption and
implementation of new staffing plans; establisbment of
management information systems; and execution of staff
training programs.
(d) Substantial progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the action plan for improving the
efficiency of the civil service.
te) (i)  The statutes of the remaining fourteen public
enterprises have been revised;



:  5                           AM   tl
- ~~~~~55                                         A~N3l% I$I
(ii)   substantial progress have been achieved in the
implementation of the liquidation and privatization
program;                   /
(iii)   and all existing overdue cross debts between the
Government and public enterprises and between public
enterprises themselves have been settled.
(f)  Substantial progress bas been achieved in the
implementation of the action plan for improving the
standards of-living and productivity of the poorest
segmrents. of the Togolese population..
,
D. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~



56
ANNEX IV
045r-90                        TOM: Stat  of Wrld Bar LOM Od Credits
(In mII lons of U.S. doIlars, as of Se9teiber 30, 1990) I/
Origiuml principal 2       DlVx0  d a      1 Outstandln
IDA    IIIAD    TOAL        IDA    IBM      TOTAL
A. FUULY DIURSED OOLUM LAI  & CRED1S   82.47    3.50   85.9           79.52    0.28   79.78
S. FURLY DISSIS   SOR CREMITS           182.21    -     182.21       188.00    -      188.00
C. ALL DISlMASit CREDITS                196.90    -     198.90        70.22    -      70.22
Second Pal DC lmt (1302-1)              6.90    -       8.90         0.00    -       0.00
EdLatIon lrvumnt                      12.40    -      12.40        12.71    -      12.71
Lo  Water &a ly                        12.00    -      12.00         8.31    -       8.31
Naeto IHrolectric                      15.00    -      15.00        14.19    -      14.19
Tf&nical Assistanoe III                 6.20    -       6.20         5.93    -       5.93
Coffee & ocoaM  Oiopent III            17.90    -      17.90        13.12    -       13.12
AgIcultural Extenion                    9.70    -       9.70         2.21    -       2.21
Priwate Entrprlses Oev't               11.50    -      11.50         1.45    -       1.45
Truuport RehablIltatIon                40.00    -      40.00         8.39    -       8.39
Cotten Sctor Dewlq,mnt                 15.10    -      15.10         2.54    -       2.54
Gsr oots Ow't Initiatives               5.00    -       5.00         0.70    -       0.70
Preinvestont                            5.00    -       5.00         0.07    -       0.07
Tleoamnicatlum                         18.00    -      18.00         0.80    -       0.80
Por  Rehab. and Extenson 3/            15.00    -      15.00         -       -       -
Tedmical and Vocatloaml Et. 3/          9.20    -       9.20         -       -       -
0. ffO TOTAL FCR ALL LOA                 -        3.50    3.50         -       0.28    0.28
E. ffIUTAL FOR ALL  ITEDS               461.58    -     461.58       335.74    -     335.74
F. IND TOTAL FOR ALL LOANS & CREDITS    461.58    3.50  485.08       335.74    0.28  338.OO
1/ DiscrepncIes betmn original and disbursed abounts are de to f kuD titla
In 115SIR s,d      rate In period of didxzshent. Credits dwulnated In SORs
are aum  In US$ ewlvalent based on the esa       rates In effect at time of nhptiatic[a;
V OrIginal Larnts et of any canellatlons;
3/ NIt yet effect 1w as of Septeqr 30, 1990;
Sources: IBDM ard IDA statemnts of loam and dovelpmt crdits, Suter  1990.



57
MINSTRY OF PLNG AND MC$                                       TOGOL$R L
_________________ . ,.        ,                   ^  Ltdt-Peace-Solidarlty
DIIUCTORATES      AA  OF PLANING
'W J}D D3LOMT;
AM     A~POLC  !&DR  I  E TGL
CONCERNING TE FOURTH STRUCTUR&AL  DJSMENT PROGR
.*J .t
. .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
. ~ ~  .       V
PO.LICY ST TNT BY6SIXIS TOGOLIS8X ~~~~~4



S8                          ANNEX V
SUM-ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Government's economic and social development program for 1990-92 is
designed to restore growth, expand employment, improve income distribution and
protect the most vulnerable population groups, on which financial
stabilization and structural adjustment programs have not put sufficient
emphasis, despite their very pnsitive effects in numerous sectors. The
program has three principal economic objectivess to support growth, keep the
rate of inflation low and reduce the current account deficit. Therefore, the
new policies are intended to eliminate persistent structural rigidities, in
order to remove obstacles to economic development and stimulate growth led by
the agriculture, light industry and trade sectors.
The objective in the area of the public finances will be to reduce the
deficit as a proportion of GDP. The Government will aim to increase State
receipts, in particular by expanding the tax base. Efforts in the field of
public expenditure will concentrate on enhancing its effectiveness,
strengthening the administration of taxation and controlling personnel costs
more closely. The Government will also focus on playing a catalytic role vis-
&-vis other sources of financing for such activities as the Local and
Participatory Development Program (joint contributions from the State, the
communities concerned, NGOs, etc.).
Improving Togo's economic management capability and expanding its
absorptive capacity are two essential objectives of the adjustment program.
The Government intends to introduce an institution-building program to reform
and strengthen its economic and financial departments and the planning units
established in the technical ministries. Diagnostic studies of the Ministry
of Planning, the Ministry of the Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Trade
and Transportation will be undertaken in 1990 with World Bank assistance in
order to prepare a program of actions to strengthen management capacity in
these ministries. To improve absorptive capacity, the Government intends to
introduce reforms in the shape of a Public Contracts Code and the
rationalization of procedures for the preparation, approval and execution of
contracts.
Given the role of women in Togolese society, measures will be taken to
facilitate their integration into the development process, and specifically to
promote the access of girls and women to training, provide women with the
material and financial resources they need to develop their activities, and
incorporate their concerns in all development projects.
The expansion of employment is a major Government concern. Although the
adjustment strategy pursued by the authorities since 1982 has helped to lay
the foundations for sustained long-term development and growth, a prerequisite
for improved social conditions, the measures taken to rehabilitate the public
finances and restructure the parastatal sector, while necessary, have
nevertheless had negative effects. Energetic steps must therefore be taken to
promote employment and thereby provide work for the young people entering the
labor market each year, especially young graduates. The authorities thus
intend to expand employment by setting up young farmers or artisans, promoting
highly labor-intensive activities, taking measures to support private sector



59                          ANNEX V
development and creating industrial free zones. The Government will also
introduce an employment policy in the civil service and define a consistent
approach to technical cooperation so as to ensure that national personnel
replace expatriate technical assistants.
Rural development and the rehabilitation and maintenance of economic and
social infrastructure are still the priorities in Togo's public investment
program. To ensure proper execution of this program, the Government will take
steps to improve project preparation and strengthen project appraisal and
monitoring procedures, within both the Ministry of Planning (DGPD) and the
technical ministries (planning units).
The thrust of agricultural policy will be to improve production
incentives and increase sector productivity as a result of higher investment
in agriculture and more effective extension services, which henceforward will
be oriented more toward farmers. Where cash crops are concerned, the
Government intends to promote the diversification of Togo's output and retain
a flexible system for fixing prices that are compatible with world market
conditions, in light of processing and marketing costs. Steps will also be
taken to increase the efficiency of OPAT operations.
The State will limit its role with regard to food crops to managing
buffer stocks (TOGOGRAIN) and will promote the development of crops that can
provide permanent food self-sufficiency and generate cereal surpluses for
export. The dissemination of research findings will be expanded and
particular attention will be paid to increasing livestock production.
In the field of rural credit, it has been decided to liquidate the
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). Studies are under way with a view
to replacing it with a more flexible and efficient organization.
In the industrial sector, the Government has set up free industrial
zones and adopted tariff reforms and the new investment code in order to
encourage investment and production, diversify output and exports, and promote
SMEs.
Meanwhile the program to restructure, privatize and liquidate State
enterprises will continue, with State participation in industrial and
commercial activities being reduced as far as possible.
To develop Togo's important role in subregional trade the Government
will maintain its policy of liberalizing commercial activities and opening the
economy to the outside world.
In the field of general education, the Government will before October
1992 adopt an education and training policy whose objectives will be to
improve conditions for students, increase the enrollment rate and enhance the
efficiency of the education system. Subject to budgetary constraints, the
Government intends to increase allocations to the education sector, especially
its expenditure on equipment and materials. Courses will be revised,
especially at the primary level, to incorporate subjects focusing on future
employment possibilities (agriculture, artisanal activities ...) and on basic



60                          ANNEX V
needs (health education, etc.).  Actions in the area of technical education
and vocational training will be aimed at raising the skills level of
instruction and reforming training methods with a view to obtaining a better
match between training and employment.
The Government will pursue its policy of rehabilitating and maintaining
existing economic infrastructure. The introduction of highway maintenance
teams will help to keep the road network in good condition. Access for the
entire population to potable water is a Government priority. Activities in
the area of urban water supplies include the second phase of the Lome potable
water scheme and execution of works at Tchamba, Dapaong and Sokode. The plans
for village water supplies include continuing the program to install water
points and involving beneficiary groups in pump maintenance; the latter will
also become partially responsible for equipment maintenance.
In the urban development, housing and sanitation sector, the Government
intends to extend the urban development program to towns in the interior,
promote housing construction through the dissemination of appropriate
technologies and utilization of local materials, and introduce a sanitation
scheme at Lom6 to resolve the problems posed by the increasingly frequent
floods in the capital.
Togo will continue to exploit its hydroelectric resources (Adjaralla
dam), while action will be taken to protect the environment and develop forest
assets (reforestation, introduction of agri-forest crop systems and
distribution of improved stoves). Research on new and renewable energies will
be continued.
In health, emphasis w:ill be placed on improving services, strengthening
structures, training personnel, improving the supply of medications and small
equipment, and expanding access to health care. 'While promoting universal
access to health services, the Government will also engage in sensitization to
ensure that beneficiaries help to defray recurrent costs.
Aware of the importance of demographic factors, the Government will take
account of their impact on development and will prepare a national population
policy.
Finally, the Government is concerned to improve the living conditions
and standards of Togo's population, especially for the most deprived social
groups. This concern is manifest throughout the Government's entire
development strategy, in both its macroeconomic and sectoral aspects.
However, to make its social objectives even more consistent and to soften the
impact of the macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment measures to be undertaken,
the Government intends to prepare and introduce, with the support of donors, a
"Social Dimensions of Adjustment* program. The particular purpose of the
program will be to mitigate the temporary negative effects of certain
adjustment measures, protect the most vulnerable groups and incorporate them
better into the development process.



61                          ANNEX V
I.    INTRODUCTION
The favorable economic environment of the first half of the 19709
enabled Togo to increase its financial resources substantially. The
Government took advantage of this situation to implement a major public
investment program and increase the number of State enterprises, whose
functions also expanded. However, certain imbalances, aggravated by the fall
in commodity prices in 1978, caused the economy and the public finances to
deteriorate. Despite public expenditure cuts, the situation was no better by
the end of 1982.
It is against this background that the Government has since 1983 been
implementing major reforms to stabilize the financial situation and making
important structural adjustments to restore the bases for sustained economic
growth. The principal donors, namely, the World Bank in the area of
structural adjustment programs and the International Monetary Fund in the area
of financial stabilization programs, have supported the Government in its
adjustment efforts.
In the first SAC, the Government revised its priorities and reoriented
its general policy toward replanning public investment, preparing a new rural
development strategy and restructuring the public enterprise sector.
The results obtained were consolidated by the execution of the second
SAC, which was designed to improve the public finances, enhance the quality of
investments, reorganize agriculture, initiate a process of State disengagement
from industrial and conmmercial activities and rehabilitation of the public
enterprises, promote SNEs and, finally, strengthen the management capacity of
the public administration. An additional objective of the second SAC was to
promote sustained economic growth in the medium term while helping to improve
the balance of payments.
The main objective of the third SAC remained the restoration of growth.
The Government also aimed to reduce the current account deficit and cut the
overall budget deficit by curbing expenditure and increasing tax receipts.
The third SAC also in1volved strengthening incentives for the private sector.
The results achieved since 1983 are encouraging in overall terms, but
the Government intends to eliminate persistent structural rigidities which are
hampering development. By focusing on the agriculture, light industry and
trade sectors, the Government is aiming to sustain growth, bring inflation
under control and reduce the current account deficit. The effects of this
program on the economy and the public finances have been satisfactory.
However, the program has not taken sufficient account of the impacts on the
most vulnerable groups in the population.
For this reason, particular attention will be paid in the fourth SAC to
the sociai dimension of adjustment. Steps will therefore be taken to improve
the 4.elity and distribution of essential services in the education, health,
low-cost housing and nutrition sectors, and to make these more accessible to
the poorest groups. Meanwhile, special emphasis will be placed on promoting



62                          ANNEX V
activities that create new jobs and improving the match between employment and
training.
1.1   Execution of the Financial StabiliSation and Structural Adjustment
Programs
Since 1983 the Togolese Government has conducted a major, sustained
effort to stabilize the financial situation while at the same time making
significant structural adjustments in order to lay the foundation for lasting
economic growth. These efforts have been supported by the World Bank in the
form of structural adjustment programs, by the International Monetary Fund in
the shape of financial stabilization programs, and by other multilateral (ADB,
EEC) and bilateral (Federal Republic of Germany, France, Japan, etc.) donors.
1.1.1       Financial stabilization programs
The financial adjustment undertaken as part of the programs introduced
in agreement with the IMF has focused on the public finances. To improve
revenues, tax administration was strengthened and a revised tax code came into
effect on January 1, 1985. A number of new measures were implemented on
January 1, 1990 to boost tax receipts (increase in the statistics tax and the
general business tax) and to harmonize and simplify the customs tariff. The
authorities have also taken vigorous steps to curb personnel costs and other
current expenditure. The bulk of Togo's capital expenditure has been
allocated to the agriculture and infrastructure sectors and has been financed
by external grants and loans on concessionary terms.
To strengthen the restructuring measures taken in the public enterprise
sector and to reduce the burden they impose on the State budget, electricity,
water and railroad tariffs have been increased on several occasions.
1.1.2       Structural adjustment programs
The first SAP: As part of the first structural adjustment program, the
Government introduced a new system for programming public investment, prepared
a rural development strategy and reorganized the public enterprise sector. It
also adopted a medium-term policy for producer prices of export crops, the
main aim being to provide a remunerative price to producers without
overlooking the State's revenue needs. Thus, between 1983 and 1985 producer
prices increased 432 for coffee, 282 for cocoa and 382 for cotton. Marketing
costs were reduced and the Government restricted the role of TOGOGRAIN to
maintaining a buffer stock of 12,000 tons of grain.
At the end of 1982 the Government adopted a program to reduce the
financial burden of the public enterprises. It was decided to dissolve a
number of nonviable State-owned and mixed-economy companies and studies were
made of the conditions for rehabilitating those whose situation could be
improved. A number of measures were also taken in the hotel sector to reduce
costs and improve the management of State-owned hotels.



63                          ANNEX V
From 1984 onward the Ministry of Planning adopted a system of three-year
programming of investments, enabling development strategies to be linked to
programs and projects selected within realistic financial envelopes and giving
priority to productive investments. Project identification, selection and
monitoring procedures, as well as macroeconomic forecasting, were a.so
upgraded.
The second SAPs The second structural adjustment program negotiated
between Togo and IDA in May 1985 became effective in September of that year.
The program was supported by IDA credits, the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa and other donors. The objectives of the second SAP were to consolidate
the achievements of the first by improving the structure of the public
finances, enhancing the quality of investments, reorganizing agriculture,
continuing the process of State disengagement from industrial and commercial
activities, rehabilitating the public enterprises, promoting SMEs and
strengthening institutions in the public administration.
The goal was to promote sustained, medium-term economic growth while
continuing to improve the balance of payments and the public finances. In the
rural development sector the Government pursued its policy of increasing small
farmer incomes. During the 1986-;987 season, the producer prices of coffee
and cocoa were raised 9.62 and 9.1S respectively. The role of TOGOGRAIN
continued to be confined to maintaining buffer stocks.
In the area of macroeconomic management, the Government embarked on a
reorganization of the main economic departments by upgrading existing
structures, the aim being to raise productivity through the introduction of
proper job descriptions and periodic recycling of State personnel. The
restructuring of the public enterprise sector continued with the privatization
of a number of companies and the introduction of a management information
system for monitoring State enterprises. In the hotel sector, management
contracts were renegotiated with the major hotel chains.
The actions taken in the area of budgetary policy were designed to keep
changes in the deficit on the State's consolidated financial operations at a
level compatible with GDP growth. Priority was given to increasing and
diversifying State receipts, achieving a more appropriate sectoral allocation
of public expenditure and reducing the financial burden of the public
enterprises. To increase revenues a new general tax code was introducud on
December 30, 1984. In addition, the process of computerizing customs statistics
was begun as part of the SYDONIA (Computerized Customs System) regional project
implemented under ECOWAS auspices. An austerity policy remained the rule for
public expenditure. However, the Government made exceptional efforts to enable
qualified personnel to be recruited and attached to departments that were under
strength, to offset regular departures into retirement.
The third SAPs The principal objective of the third structural
adjustment program was to restore economic activity. This program was agreed
with the World Bank during March 1988 and contained measures relating to the
management of public resources, the restructuring of the public enterprises
and policies for various sectors.



64                          ANNEX V
The Government took significant actions designed to:
-     Improve the management of public resources, particular emphasis being
put on the planning and execution of the public investment program and
on enhancing Togo's absorptive capacity.
-     Consolidate the system of ProllingO programming and budgeting of capital
expenditure; Investments were oriented toward sectors capable of
promoting economic growth, and the recurrent costs of all the projects
included in the program were calculated. In addition, the Ministry of
Planning acted to upgrade the projects in the public investment program
by supporting the introduction of planning units in each of the
technical ministries, whose essential role is to identify and prepare
projects for the investment program that are consistent with the defined
sectoral strategy, and to monitor execution of these projects.
To accelerate awards of contracts and the execution of public
investments, the Ministry of Planning, following a study on the absorptive
capacity of the Togolese economy, prepared terms of reference for a study on
the reform of the legislation governing procurement.
A number of measures were taken in the area of restructuring the public
enterprises. The new organization of the Ministry of Industry and State
Enterprises was adopted. The MISE organizea seminars for management board
members and general directors of State enterprises, reviewed the experience of
the ongoing privatization process, prepared a new restructuring strategy for
the parastatal sector, continued the introduction of the management
information system and considered the report submitted by the committee
responsible for studying reforms of the institutional and legal framework.
As regards the promotion of the private sector, the Government
liberalized imports by abolishing SONACOM's monopolies and eliminating quotas
(except for products to which special regulations apply) and import licenses.
The Government reformed tariffs and adopted a new investment code putting more
emphasis on company performance and the creation of jobs. The price system
was revised. Finally, export licenses for locally produced industrial goods
and renewals of installation permits were both eliminated.
To develop export crops (coffee, cocoa, cotton) and ensure a fair return
to producers, the Government, with World Bank assistance, introduced a
flexible formula for fixing producer prices that takes world prices into
account and is determined by a coordinating body known as the 'Fiduciary
Committee."    To make the policy of liberalizing exports of grain surpluses,
adopted in 1986, more effective and to promote exports of food crops and
nontraditional agricultural products, two committees were set up in 1989: a
Technical Committee and a Committee for the Study and Promotion of Exports of
Food and Non-Traditional Agricultural Products.
The Government has decided to liquidate CNCA and is currently
studying, in conjunction with donors, the new organization to be established
to ensure financing for the rural sector.



65                           ANNEX V
1.2         The Effects of the Financial Stabilization and Structural
Adjustment Programs
1.2.1       The effects on the econoMy and gublic finances
1.2.1.1     Changes in GDP and national income
In current francs, GDP rose from CFAF 313.8 billion in 1984 to CFAF 430
billion in 1989, an average annual increase of 6.5Z, representing an increase
in GDP per capita from CFAF 106,597 to CFAF 124,855. In real terms GDP rose
from CFAF 188.1 billion in 1984 to CFAP 221.2 billion in 1989, an
average annual increase of 3.3Z. National income, expressed in current francs,
rose from CFAF 266.3 billion in 1984 to CFAF 371 billion in 1989, an average
annual increase of 6.9Z. National income per capita rose from CFAP 90,462 in
1984 to CFAF 107,728 in 1989, an average annual increase of 3.62.
1.2.1.2     Changes by sector
The primary sector accounts for one third of total value added in Togo
(33.81 of total GDP on average between 1984 and 1989). Food crops account for
about two thirds and export crops for a little more than 101 of primary sector
GDP. Value added in the sector in current francs rose from CFAF 105 billion
in 1984 to CFAF W4<.9 billion in 1989, an average annual increase of 6.8z.
Taking average output in the years 1983 and 1984 (a bad and a good year,
respectively) as a base, average annual output rose 4.5Z.
In the area of quantities of export crops produced, the progress made by
coffee should be noted; this is a result of the coffee regeneration program
and the decline of cocoa (aging plantations, swollen-shoot). Cotton output
also rose rapidly, from 24,400 tons in 1984 to 86,500 tons in 1989. The
producer prices of the three principal export crops (coffee, cocoa and cotton)
were reduced in 1989 in light of the fall in the world prices of these
products. Value added in the secondary sector, which accounts for slightly
over 20? of GDP, rose from CFAY 63.4 billion in 1984 to CFAF 96 billion in
1989 (in current francs), an average annual increase of 8.7?. Performance in
the mining industry indicates the effects of the closure of CIMAO in 1984 and
of fluctuations in value added in phosphates. Phosphates accounted for some
45Z of value added in the secondary sector in 1984, but the corresponding
figure for 1989 was only 32X. This is ascribable basically to the fall in
phosphate prices in line with changes in the world price and to the presence
of cadmium in Togolese phosphates, which causes problems for their marketing,
particularly in Europe.
Value added in the manufacturing industry sector rose by an average of
12.8? annually. This result was largely influenced by the increase in value
added in the food, beverage and tobacco industries, which account for half of
the manufacturing industry sector. The policy of privatizing and
restructuring the parastatal sector seems to have had a positive impact on the
sector's performance.
Value added in the construction and public works sector increased by an
annual average of 11.12 over the period. However, a slowdown was in evidence



66                          ANNEX V
at its end owing to the completion of a number of large projects (Nangbeto dam
and headquarters of ECOWAS, BCEAO and CEB).
In the energy and water sector the average increase was close to 14S a
year. This reflects not only increases in volume resulting from higher demand
for electricity and execution of the project to expand potable water supplies
(in Lome especially), but also the adjustments to water and electricity
tariffs during the period.
The average annual increase in value added in the tertiary sector was
5.2Z over the period, or 1.32 less than the average annual increase in overall
GDP. A major portion of the value added in this sector derives from the
margins (especially OPAT margins) on the marketing of agricultural products,
imports of capital goods and consumption goods, re-exports (particularly
tobacco, textiles and perfume). Between 1984 and 1986, value added by the
public administration stagnated as a result of the austerity policy introduced
after 1982, but rose from 1987 onward following the unblocking of salaries and
promotions. The rate of growth of 'other services' depends greatly on that
for all other sectors of activity as a whole.
1.2.1.3    Changes in the State's consolidated operations
Overall, it is apparent that the trend during the period, measured by
the deficit between outlays and receipts (excluding grants) expressed as a
proportion of GDP, has not been constant. Between 1983 and 1985 there was a
clear improvement in the deficit, which fell from 7.75Z to 6.56S of GDP.
During this period the adjustment effort was focused on the public finances.
Tax administration was strengthened with the introduction of the new tax code
and rigorous measures were taken to curb and control current expenditure. The
increase in capital expenditure, financed from external sources, was basically
attributable to the Nangbeto dam.
The objectives of the financial stabilization programs between 1986 and
1987 were not achieved because of the deteriorating economic and financial
situation resulting from the fall in export receipts caused by the decline in
export prices and in the value of the dollar in relation to the CFA franc.
The deficit remained at 92 of GDP during these two years. There was a
definite improvement in 1988 but the situation remained precarious, in that in
1989 budget receipts were lower than expected as a result of a decline in the
proceeds both of import taxes, whose composition was modified to the benefit
of more lightly taxed products, and of the business tax following the slowdown
in domestic demand and the drop in exports to neighboring countries.
1.2.1.4     Changes in the money and credit supply
The growth of the money supply and credit to the economy was lower than
that of GDP over the period 1984-1989 (3.22 and 3.4Z annually, on average,
respectively), as a result of the slowdown in economic activity and successive
increases in interest rates (especially in 1988 and 1989). The BCEAO raised
the interest rates in effect within the UMOA in order to encourage the
mobilization of financial savings and discourage capital outflows. A number
of important reforms were approved in October 1989, including elimination of



67                          ANNMX V
the preferential discount rate and sectoral credit ratios, modification of
prior authorization procedures, tighter supervision of the banking system and
revised arrangements for financing agricultural production.
1.2.1.5     Changes in the balance of payments
There was an overall deterioration in the balance of payments from 1984
to 1988 and an improvement in 1989, the global balance for that year being
positive (surplus of CFAF 3.2 billion). The changes in the trade balance can
be attributed both to fluctuations in imports, which increased in 1985 and
1986 in light of the sizeable public investment program (Nangbeto dam
particularly), and to variations in the main export crops (phosphates, coffee,
cocoa and cotton) associated with changes in amounts exported and the fall in
world prices. The trade balance deteriorated fairly sharply from 1984 to 1986
(a surplus of CFAF 12.1 billion became a deficit of 32.3 billion), but then
improved insofar as the deficit was steadily reduced to CFAF 4.2 billion in
1989.
The balance of services remained in deficit by an average amount of CFAF
35 billion, the growing deficit on other services being somewhat offset by the
reduction in interest due. There has also been a decline in public transfers
(CFAF 27.2 billion in 1989 as against 34.6 billion in 1985). The balance of
payments on current account went from CFAF +11.4 billion in 1984 to -11.1
billion in 1989, via a maximum of -49.1 billion in 1986. The capital account
has improved (CFAF +14.3 billion in 1989 as against -17.4 billion in 1984),
owing to a significant reduction in repayments due, which fell from CFAF 34.7
billion in 1984 to 21 billion in 1989, a decline of some 40Z over the period,
and an increase in total borrowing (from CFAF 19.7 billion in 1984 to 30.1
billion in 1989).
1.2.1.6     The impact on external debt service
The introduction of the adjustment and stabilization policy enabled Togo
to benefit from a number of reschedulings of its external debt, involvings
CPFA  33.7 billion in 1983, 23.4 billion in 1984, 13.7 billion in 1985, 44.5
billion in 1988 and 17 billion in 1989. In addition, Togo has gained from
significant debt cancellation by Canada, Denmark, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany. Finally, the adjustment policy has been supported by a
number of donors who have contributed nonproject assistance enabling the
Government to meet its external commitments remaining after the reschedulings
referred to above.
1.2.1.7     The applications-resources balance
The applications-resources table brings together various data analyzed
elsewhere and confirms their accuracy. It is evident thats
-     public consumption increased 5.2K a year on average from 1984 to 1989,
-     private consumption increased by 7.61 per year on average,



68                          AMNEX V
-     public investment, as noted elsewhere, has not increased overall, being
in 1989 some way below (CFAP 32.3 billion) its 1984 level (33.4
billion).
1.2.2       Effects on economic agents
1.2.2.1     Effects on the State
The structural adjustment program made it possible to:
-     reduce the deficit in the public finances;
-     improve the process of project identification, appraisal and execution
monitoring;
-     enhance macroeconomic forecasting, planning and the programming of
public investment, the latter being reoriented toward rural development
and the maintenance of existing infrastructure;
-     reduce the burden of the public enterprises on the State budget;
-     rehabilitate the accounts of the State-owned hotel sector.
1.2.2.2     Effects on companies
Companies have gained from the elimination of State and State enterprise
arrears, the swifter procedures governing procurement and the adoption of the
investment code and the Togolese company charter. For the banks, the
elimination of State arrears is certainly beneficial, but this affects their
profitability (elimination of doubtful debts or the need for provisions) more
than their liquidity. Nonetheless, the reforms required under the structural
adjustment and stabilization programs have had other effects on businesses,
more specifically:
the increase in the tax and customs burden, the latter being of
particular significance to the transit trade;
-     the increase in costs resulting from higher water and electricity
tariffs;
-     the reduction in demand deriving from the wage and recruitment freeze
and the curb on public expenditure.
1.2.2.3     Effects on households
Although the adjustment policy enabled growth in real terms to be
restored after 1984, it has also entaileds
-     a reduction in the purchasing power of wages as a result of the
solidarity tax, higher public service tariffs (water, electricity, etc.)
and the increase in medical and education costs;



69                          ARM  V
-     an increase in unemployment, since little recruitment is taking place in
the modern sector, while the public sector has frozen recruitment or
limited it to the replacement of those retiring;
a decline in the incomes of traders and artisans iu the informal sector
as a result of the slowdown in production and the fall in urban incomes.
It is with the aim of improving the living conditions of the poorest
groups that the Government wishes to promote growth with equity and take the
impact of structural adjustment into account; these are the priority
objectives in its development policy for the period 1990-1992.
THE FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
II.   GENERAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY MEASURES
The Goverrment's policy for the period in question is to promote
sustained economic growth with equity in order to improve the living
conditions of the poorest sections of the population. To this end, a range of
measures will be takens
D     on the one hand, to bring about the desired growth by:
*     increasing and diversifying production.
*     improving productivity,
o     strengthening the institutions responsible for economic
management;
-     on the other hand, to meet the need for a better distribution of income
and the benefits of growth byt
o     incorporating the social dimension in sectoral and regional
development policies,
e    promoting the integration of women into the development process.
The Government has established four main objectives:
-     to keep real GDP growth in excess of 4Z a year, with an average annual
increase in real per capita income of about IZ. The potential growth
sectors identified are agriculture, industry and commerces
-     to keep the rate of inflation to around 3Z on the basis of the GDP
deflator;
-     to reduce the deficit in the balance of payments on current account,
excluding grants, to 7.7Z by 1992;



70                          ANNEXv
-     to develop the social services, with an emphasis on the needs of the
poorest groups.
2.1         Public Finances
2.1.1       Mobilization of public receipts to increase State resources
With a view to promoting growth, the Government intends to take measures
designed to increase public savings, reduce the overall deficit, expand the
tax base rather than raise tax rates, enhance the effectiveness of expenditure
programs, moderate the debt burden and, finally, reduce net indebtedness to
the banking system in order to establish a safety margin in the event of
unanticipated losses.
To achieve all these objectives the Government intends to keep the ratio
of tax receipts to GDP at its present level of 201. The increase in State
resources will be linked, among other things, to a fiscal policy designed to
strengthen the receipts base and improve the incentives to the private sector
through the new tax and tariff system introduced in January 1990, and a
reduction in ad hoc exemptions.
2.1.2       Rationalization of State expenditure
The Government intends to keep infrastructures and supplies of equipment
at an adequate level:
-     for rural development, health and education;
-     to support the activities of NGOs and local communities in order to
reinforce the execution of the PDLP and the Regional Actions Support
Program (PAAR).
In addition, the authorities intend to strengthen procedures for
controlling and monitoring personnel costs through the introduction of
computerized records on civil servants during 1990. In general terms, the
Government will tighten administrative procedures for allocating, monitoring
and controlling expenses. Specifically, this will entail:
-     definition of a system designed to improve the effectiveness of budget
appropriations in the social sectors and to protect the poorest groups,
and the progressive introduction of this system as part of regular
budget procedures;
-     annual review in conjunction with the Vorld Bank and EEC of State
expenditure as a whole, covering both purely technical aspects and the
qualitative issues involved in meeting the population's essential needs
and making the most of Togo's human resources.
2.1.3       The public investment program (PIP)
In the area of public investment, the authorities will maintain, as part
of the general development guidelines for the period 1991-1995, the system of
rolling three-year programming adopted at the end of 1983. As in the case of



71                          ANNEX V
general operating budget expenses, special attention will be paid to
determining the volume of public investment and to the inter- and intra-
sectoral allocation of public investment and its effects, in both economic and
social terms.  To this end, specific criteria will be defined and used in
project analysis to enable the social consequences of proposed investments to
be measured.
For the period 1990-1992, total public investment expenditure, defined
in conjunction with the IMP and World Bank, is estimated at CFAF 228 billion
(including investments by public enterprises and investments financed by
phosphate countertrade). The effects of the PIP from the standpoints of
growth with equity, the public finances and the balance of payments will be
discussed annually with the IMF and IBRD. The contents and execution of the
PIP will also be reviewed annually and quarterly in consultation with the
World Bank and the EEC (for the sectors given priority status in the context
of Community support for adjustment).
The Government will not implement new projects and will only incur
expenditure above the level set out in the PIP after having consulted IBRD and
the IMF. In addition, a special effort will be made to upgrade the portfolio
of State projects, specifically through recourse to the Preinvestment Fund
recently established with the assistance of various donors. To improve budget
management the Government intends during 1990 to initiate a study on the
consolidation of all State expenditure in a single budget from 1992 onward.
Finally, the Government is committed to including in the PIP, from 1991-93
onward, all the investment expenditure financed by phosphate countertrade and
the counterpart of grants in kind.
2.1.4       Better application of State resources
Rural development and the rehabilitation and maintenance of economic and
social infrastructure remain a priority in the public investment program. To
facilitate proper execution of this program, the Government will take steps to
improve project preparation and strengthen procurement procedures.
In addition, the authorities also intend to expand those activities in
which State participation has a demonstration effect on other institutions
whose complementary resources work to strengthen projects. The sectors
identified in this respect, on an indicative basis only, are housing,
vocational training and SMEs.
2.1.5       Enhancing the company accounting framework
To alleviate the present shortcomings in the accounting regulations
applicable to all economic agents, and in the context of the establishment by
Decree No. 80,147 of May 14, 1980 of the National Council on Accounting, it is
planned to take the following actions:
-     evaluation of the present accounting situation in Togo;
-     preparation of a national accounting plan;



72                          ANNEX V
-     application of this plan (distribution of documents, organization of
information and training seminars).
The introduction of a single accounting plan for all companies will
enable their accounts to be standardized, facilitate the inspection and
auditing of operations and provide a more clearly defined tax base,
particularly for company taxes and the business tax.
2.2         Improving the Absorptive Capacity of the Togolese Economy
Improving the absorptive capacity of the economy is one of the
Government's concerns. Measures have already been taken to upgrade project
preparation and appraisal, and, within the framework of current regulations,
to speed up the process of approving public contracts. In the appraisal of
investment projects emphasis will be placed on defining and applying criteria
that reflect their social impacts. Analysis of the system for approving,
awarding and executing contracts has highlighted the cumbersome nature of
current procedures, the repetitive nature of the controls involved, the
inadequacy of the written regulations and the mismatch between the legislation
and the economic situation.
The Government therefore proposes to introduce reforms built around the
two following guiding principless
-     bringing greater urgency to the preparation of dossiers (less shuttling
of papers between departments, fewer procedures, strengthening of human
resources ...);
-     adopting modern and effective legislation to improve the absorptive
capacity of the economy.
These reforms will require technical, structural and legislative
measures.
2.2.1       Technical measures
These involve:
-     determining, before the end of September 1990, new contract amount
thresholds for purposes of establishing responsibilities and award
modalities; special attention will be paid in this area to measures
facilitating access by national SMIs/SMEs to public contracts;
-     simplifying the prior authorization procedure associated with bidding
competitions, and intensifying the publicity given to the latter so that
competition plays its part;
-     preparing a standard contract for bidding competitions and disseminating
it among ministries;



73                          AMNEX V
-     adjusting payment periods to contract execution periods in order to
simplify administrative tasks and ensure that preparation periods are
reduced.
In addition, the authoritie' have decided to study mechanisms aimed at
awarding all public contracts on a fully tax-included basis, without any
additional financial inwact on donors.
2.2.2       Structural and legislative measures
The intention is to:
-     prepare and adopt, before the end of October 1991, a public contracts
code;
-     rationalize contract preparation, approval and execution procedures.
2.3         Improving Management Capacity in the Administration and Upgrading
Human Resources
To improve economic management and increase Togo's absorptive capacity,
the public administration at all levels, central, regional and decentralized
(local comunities), must be made more effective and dynamic. To achieve
this, the Government intends to prepare an employment policy, undertake
reforms and strengthen institutions in the civil service. The objectives of
this employment policy and reform are to:
-     decentralize administrative departments;
-     develop employee skills through permanent training activities (using
Togo's training resources such as the ENA, the DIFOP, the University
Secretariat School, etc.) and by organizing seminars and practical
training, both in Togo and abroad, in specific areas; special attention
will be given to developing and strengthening employee skills in the SDA
area;
_     strengthen the human and material resources of the economic and
financial departments, particularly the Directorate General of Planning
and Development and the planning units established in the technical
ministries;
-     ensure more effective utilization of human resources by seeking a better
match between training and employment, using precise job descriptions
for both assignment and recruitment purposes;
-     make departments work better by reorganizing their structures and
responsibilities and improve the system of monitoring and evaluating the
activities of permanent officials;
-     strengthen the departments responsible for the statistical monitoring of
programs undertaken, particularly as regards the social effects of
adjustment policies;



74                           ANNEX V
-     improve the quality and consistency of the information system as a whole
and promote the circulation and distribution of information;
-     develop the capabilities of the statistical services and promote the
mobilization of technical skills;
-     strengthen and activate regional planning and development organizations;
-     define a consistent policy for technical cooperation incorporating
training and upgrading activities for Togolese personnel, with a view to
the gradual, planned take-over of technical assistance functionsl
-     gradually introduce a true national network of scientific and technical
documentation and information.
A diagnostic study of the Ministries of Planning, Economy and Finance,
and Commerce and Transport will be undertaken in 1990 with financial
assistance from the World Bank. This study will enable each ministry to draw
up a balance sheet of where it currently stands, specify its responsibilities,
evaluate its material and human needs, including its technical support and
training requirements, and will make recommendations for the institutional
strengthening of these three ministries. Specifically, the study will enable
the Government, in relation to each ministry:
-     to define or redefine its mandate and strategic guidelines;
-     to define the most appropriate organization for executing this mandate;
-     to prepare a staffing plan guaranteeing a better match between positions
and the personnel profiles needed;
-     to formulate an integrated program of priority actions to strengthen its
performance by:
*     devising and introducing information and management systems,
including the relevant practical training;
*     improving work procedures and methods through the preparation of
operational manuals and directives;
*     introducing targeted technical support in a manner consonant with
the Government's new approach to technical assistance;
*     training personnel to meet skills requirements.
This integrated program of priority actions will be the Government's
framework for coordinating the interventions of all the partners invited to
participate in strengthening the management capacity of these ministries. The
Government intends to request the Bank to contribute to the implementation of



75                          ANNEX V
an operation to support this program. As part of SAP IV, the Government, for
each of the three ministriess
-     will carry out a diagnostic study before the end of June 1991;
-     vill adopt not later than October 1991 the integrated program of
priority actions to strengthen the three ministries and will request the
assistance of donors to implement it.
Meanwhile, to support these efforts, the Government intends to prepare
an institutional development strategy stressing, among other things, better
programming management and coordination of external technical assistance.
2.4         Employment and Incomes Policy
Employment (unemployment and underemployment) has become a major problem
in recent years given the combination of a number of factors, such as: the
slowdown of economic activities in the modern sector, reductions in force in
the parastatal sector and the freeze on recruiting in the civil service, the
continuing migration of young people seeking employment from rural areas to
the towns and the growing numbers of young people, with or without
qualifications, entering a labor market that has become smaller and smaller.
In addition, incomes have also been affected by such factors as the
introduction of the national solidarity tax, the policy of economic pricing of
public services, falling producer prices for cash crops linked to the decline
in world prices, and the progressive elimination of subsidies for fertilizers
and pesticides.
It therefore seems necessary not to de-link employment from the incomes
that it generates, and to consider employment in the widest sense, including
specifically non-wage employment or rural employment. The principal objective
in this area therefore consists of promoting, through the introduction of an
incentives system and the adoption of appropriate regulations, the creation of
jobs, remunerated or not, in both urban and rural areas, thereby enabling
workers to earn satisfactory incomes. An in-depth study of employment and
income has just been initiated. The recommendations from this study should
make it possible tot
-     prepare a strategy and policies for employment and income;
-     propose measures of a general nature for employment and incomes
(legislative and regulatory aspects, etc.);
-     propose more specific measures for groups particularly affected by the
adjustment process (personnel let go, young job seekers, qualified or
not) and those structurally excluded from the labor market;
-     identify needs for specific additional surveys intended to highlight
more clearly the measures required.



76                          ANNEX V
This study, whose final results will be available during the third
quarter of 1990, will represent a basic document for analysis by the SDA
working group that vill be set up to study employment and income issues.
Special attention will be given to promoting highly labor-intensive activities
in sectors such as afforestation, environmental protection and execution of
rural infrastructures, the development of the informal sector (micro-
companies) and SlEs/SMIs, and to training, skills upgrading and recycling
activities designed to provide a better correlation between the supply of and
demand for employment. The role that can be played by the local communities
in the matter of employment generation will also be examined.
The Government will also ensure, on the basis of the work
undertaken in the Hinistry' of Technical Education and Vocational Training and
the results of the analyses by SDA working groups, that the employment
information, management and monitoring system is reinforced.
2.5         Inclusion of the Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA)
The financial stabilization and adjustment policy that has helped to
restore Togo's economy and created favorable conditions for the restoration of
growth and the essential macroeconomic equilibria has not had an appropriate
impact on the poorest groups in the community. In the future more effort must
be concentrated on these groups, specifically as regards their employment,
income, nutrition, health and education.
The rehabilitation of the parastatal sector, the measures relating to
length of service and retirement age, the solidarity tax, and the compensation
freeze until 1987, have all aggravated employment and income problems that
have not been offset by any expansion in the private sector.
At the same time, the financial constraints pressing on the State
budget, both the operating budget and the investment budget, have not been
accompanied by necessary adjustments to enable the essential needs of the
population to be met. Disparities, whether regional or income-linked, in
access to essential social services have increased and have particularly
affected the most vulnerable groups.
The Government is aware of these problems and, while desiring to
maintain a satisfactory level of investment and production so as to guarantee
long-term recovery, believes that it must act as swiftly as possible to raise
the living standards of Togo's population, in particular those of the most
disadvantaged groups, to an acceptable level, and to guarantee in the long run
that the entire population will be included in the process and mechanisms of
economic recovery. In the long term there can be no sustained economic growth
in the absence of a policy designed to protect and strengthen human resources,
the key factor in economic recovery and development.
Therefore the Togolese Government has since mid-1988 taken certain
actions to enable the social dimension to be incorporated in adjustment
measures. Although initially the main object of the SDA was to offset, for
the poorest groups, the social impact of structural adjustment, it very
quickly became apparent that this was only a partial approach insofar as it



77                          ANEX V
merely involved intervention after the fact. It is now clear that the SDA
must be included in the various development policies right from the planning
stage of structural adjustment so as to permit a priori analysis of the social
effects of the measures recommended, so that appropriate policies can be
devised to mitigate those effects. In this sense, the Government's current
objective regarding the SDA is not merely to compensate ex post for the social
effects of adjustment but to focus ex ante on making the most of Togo's human
resources as the basis of adjustment.
The work to be done on the SDA, in the context of the introduction of
macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment measures, must have a two-fold aim:
-     in the medium term, the formulation of macroeconomic and sectoral
policies designed to promote the participation of all social groups in
the economic growth process;
-     in the short term, the introduction of temporary measures or actions
designed to protect the most vulnerable groups, and to mitigate the
effects of adjustment on those sections of the community whose living
standards and access to basic services have been affected.
This work will proceed on two levels:
-     across the board, through a process of syntheo4zing sectoral conclusions
and recommendations and developing and promoting technical instruments;
-     at the sectoral level, the focus being basically on the preparation of
policies, programs and actions.
The Government has identified the following sectors and issues as
priority areas for the application of the SDA: employment and income,
nutrition, health, education, integration of women into the development
process, and low-cost housing.
SDA-related studies and analyses will be based on the following three
specific instruments:
-     before September 1991, preparation of social inc cators and formulation
of a macroeconomic model incorporating these indicators in order to
evaluate the social impacts of the strategies proposed; these activities
will use local skills as far as possible;            I
-     a reliable, regular system of information on social conditions to permit
relevant social indicators to be tracked;
-     systematic Analysis of public expenditure, particularly in the social
sectors, based on criteria for evaluating its impacts on the vulnerable
groups.
^'s regards institutions, it is proposed to establish, within the
framework of the Restricted Interministerial Committee (CIR) monitoring the
SAP, whose responsibilities will be broadened to include the SDAs



78                          ANNEX V
-     an SDA committee within the Ministry of Planning responsible for
coordinating SDA work and for organizing and monitoring working groups;
this comittee will answer to the Director General of Planning and
Development and will act as the CIR's secretariat on all SDA issues;
-     SDA working groups including all the socioeconomic agents involved in
each SDA sector and issue (administration, NGOs, public and parastatal
organizations, local communities, donors, users, etc....), who will be
asked to formulate alternative development policies incorporating the
SDA and to propose short-term measures to reduce the social impact of
adjustment on the poorest groups.
Given the importance of statistical information in the SDA, the
Directorate of Statistics will be involved in the work of the committee and
SDA working groups.
2.6         Integration of Women into the Development Process
Economic and social development and the actions on which it is based
cannot be effectively achieved unless Togolese women are closely associated
with the process of economic recovery, since they are not only part of but are
actively involved in most social and economic activities in the country.
Hence the Government's policy on behalf of women will be designed tot
-     promote the access of young girls and women to education and permanent
training;
-     take greater account of women's concerns in all development projects;
-     promote women's employment;
-     provide women's groups with the material and financial support required
for the developmeut of their activities;
-     introduce and monitor changes in relevant indicators of the integration
of women into the development process;
-     strengthen the institutional capacity and the human and material
resources of the Directorate General of the Women',s Affairs to enable it
to play its coordinating role better.
These objectives will be duly taken into account in the work of the
various SDA working groups.
2.7         Policies for Regional Planning, National Development and the Local
and Participatory Development Program (PDLP)



79                           ANNEX V
2.7.1       Regional planning and national development policies
The desire to regionalize Togo'o political, administrative and economic
life was reflected in Decree 65-148 of September 18, 1965, creating Togo's
five economic regions, and Order No. 75-26 of July 28, 1975, establishing
regional and local planning comnittees. These measures were strengthened by
Laws Nos. 81-8 and 81-9 of July 28, 1981 regarding territorial reorganization.
The objectives being sought are to:
-     ensure the transfer to the regional authorities of the identification,
preparation and monitoring of all regional projects;
-     organize balanced national development by reducing regional disparities
and curbing the exodus from rural areas;
-     provide a basis for a true regional development strategy that meshes
with development activities at the national level;
-     promote development at the grass-roots level through better coordination
of local development activities.
In terms of institutions, the Government has established:
at the center, the Regional Planning Directorate (within the Ministry of
Planning);
-     in the regions, the Regional Planning and Development Directorates,
whose purpose is to coordinate development operations in each region.
The Government's actions will therefore be aimed at:
-     speeding up administrative regionalization by helping the technical
ministries to strengthen, or establish, regional offices;
-     giving greater responsibility to local authorities and reinforcing their
management capacity;
-     defining action programs based on a rational system of reliable data;
-     mobilizing the necessary resources to achieve these action programs.
2.7.2       The Local and Participatory Development Program (PDLP)
The PDLP consists of a variety of small, grass-roots development
activities (microprojects), carried out with the effective participation of
the communities concerned. The principal objective of the PDLP is to address
the needs and concerns of small communities, especially rural communities.
The Government is implementing the PDLP in light of its desire to:
-     provide infrastructure for rural communities and poor urban
neighborhoods;



80                           ANNEX V
-     organize a hierarchy of population centers to promote Togo's
development;
-     promote solidarity;
-     combat regional and spatial Imbalances;
-     promote small-scale production activities in order to further economic
development in rural areas and provide a basis for food self-
sufficiency.
The participatory nature of the PDLP is reflected int
-     the mobilization of communities, which are required to participate in
executing projects by contributing money, labor or goods;
-     the preparation of the program, in which projects are chosen in
conjunction with representatives of the commmnity.
The participation of NGOs is fundamental to the implementation of the
PDLP since at the present time a significant proportion of the microprojects
are executed with NGO assistance in the field. It is therefore 1zacessary to
act in close conjunction and agreement with the NGOs and to link them with the
execution of the PDLP, in terms of the articulation of needs and the
selection, financing and implementation of projects. As regards the execution
conditions of the PDLP, it would seem necessary to harmonize modes of
intervention by the Government, NGOs and the donors providing financial
support for the program, so as to ensure that the whole of Togo is covered and
to avoid operational discrepancies. Finally, the action areas covered by the
microprojects are basically water supplies, infrastructure, health and
education, and also crop and livestock production, in order to consolidate
Togo's self-sufficiency in food products.
III.        SPECIFIC ECONOMIC RECOVERY MEASURES
Since the purpose of the separate sector development policies, which fit
into the overall strategy framework described previously, is to be specific
about the approaches, measures and action programs that will be used to
promote sustained and equitable growth in the different,economic and social
development sectors, it is essential that each make due allowances for the
social impact of the adjustment process. For this reason, the Government has
been intent on incorporating SDA programs and actions into its development
policies for the various sectors of the economy.
3.1         Rural Sector
Since 1981, the priority given to Togo's rural sector has been confirmed
through the actions the Government has taken to promote its development. From
1985 to 1988, the rural sector was the target of approximately one third of
the toWal Public Investment Program. The various incentives and accompanyiug



81                          ANNEX V
measures (price support, subsidization of the factors of production)
introduced over the period have led to major progress with both cash and food
crops. In 1986, in the interests of consolidation and better coordination of
its agriculture policy, the Government brought in its New Rural Development
Strategy, which is concerned mainly with:
-     centering development actions more specifically on the small rural
producer, who becomes the main agent in the development process;
-     introducing a series of measures to increase and diversify output;
-     improving and strengthening production support structures;
-     achieving better resource allocation through careful appraisal and
selection of projects;
-     protecting and rehabilitatiisg the environment, with active participation
from local communities.
Government action in the 1990-1992 period will be focused on
implementing this strategy. Emphasis will be placed on increasing foodcrop
yields so as to consolidate food self-sufficiency, increasing export business
in nontraditional agricultural products, and developing cash crops so as to
increase export revenues.
3.1.1       Strengthening production support structures
3.1.1.1     Organization of producers
Promoting small-producer organizations and training their members is one
of the priorities of the New Rural Development Strategy. A work program
designed to consolidate the steps taken so far and to develop others tha' will
lead to the creation of new groupings is in the process of being finalized.
Given the approaches that have been decided upon, reinforcement of the
effectiveness of the Cooperatives Service and the technical support it
provides is indicated -- within the context of the project to reorganize the
Ministry of Rural Development.
In addition to promoting the formation of groupings and providing
training, the Cooperatives Service will coordinate experiments in the creation
of such groupings, lay down the basic principles which should govern their
formation and functioning, and specify the various types of support available
to them.
3.1.1.2           Training and settlement of young producers
Despite the steps taken since 1981 to encourage young people to return
to the land on leaving school, actual capacity to help them settle in rural
areas falls short of current needs, mainly because of the niigh cost of the
scheme. Action to advance it will continue, however, the Government's
intention being to identify and introduce less costly alternatives that will



82                          ANNEX V
allow more young people to be given settlement help. The authorities will
therefore introduce a series of measures tot
-     strengtLrn the Rural Youth Settlement and Support Division, as part of
the project to reorganize the Ministry of Rural Development;
-     formulate a rural youth settlement policy that deals in particular with
the land tenure question and coincides with methods developed by other
competent agencies so that the different approaches used at field level
fit together coherently;
-     include, to the extent possible, a young-farmer component in all rural
development projects to be implemented during the 1990-1992 period.
A professionalization program for students at the University of Benin's
School of Agriculture is also needed to train future graduates to become farm
operators capable of exerting a demonstration effect on other producers.
3.1.1.3     Role of women
The Government will pay particular attention to the appropriate and
logical organization of women's participation in the economic and social
development process. Activities such as vegetable growing will be fostered
for their benefit through the building of small dams and bottomland
improvement schemes. This integration of women into the development process
will be brought about through:
-     systematic consultations with the Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs
on the identification of rural development projects;
-     expanding women's participation in rural commnity associations and
supporting the creation of new associations;
-     inclusion in rural development projects of components specifically
focused on women's development role, thereby requiring their increased
participation in the project process;
-     identifying supplementary action programs devised by the SDA working
groups to advance women's integration into the development process.
3.1.2       Specific production support measures
3.1.2.1     Reorganization of Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
By the end of 1990, the Government, with donor assistance, will have
launched the project to reorganize MDR and its farm production support
services. Besides supporting action to increase agricultural output (by
improving the capacity and effectiveness of rural development agencies in the
arenas of planning and programuing of technology transfer to the rural world,
research, and coordination and support of programs at field level), this
project is also designed to strengthen MDR's ability to analyze the
constraints on rural development and devise alternative strategies consisting



83                          ANNEX V
of action plans to supplement and enhance the general guidelines set out in
the New Rural Development Strategy.
The kind of structure envisaged will regroup and coordinate activities
in three major categories: development support activities, research, and
administrative and financial matters. Thus, the activities for which the
Directorate General of Rural Development is responsible will be regrouped and
taken over by nine departments at Ministry headquarters instead of the present
group of 16; the various spheres of research will be coordinated by a National
Directorate of Agricultural Research; and matters affecting personnel,
financial and administrative management will be the responsibility of a new
Directorate of Administration and Finance.
3.1.2.2     Training and extension
The New Rural Development Strategy calls for the Regional Rural
Development Directorates (DRDRs) to take on the responsibility of providing
training and for these agencies themselves to be reorganized so that each in
its particular region can coordinate and harmonize the necessary action
programs. Since it is no longer feasible to provide extension services to all
farmers, the chief organizational concern will not be to deliver them to all
producers but rather to a target group consisting of farmers who are receptive
to innovations -- in other words, to a contact group that should be in a
position to influence and train other producers.
This twofold approach goes hand in hand with the new zoning arrangements
and the vrorld Bank Agricultural Extension Project, which make the DRDRs and
other development entities responsible, each in its particular zone, for all
training operations connected with the food and cash crop programs and other
development measures. Depending on the progress made with this new training
system and the DRDRs' grasp of their new responsibilities, a second phase will
consist of gradual transfer to the DRDRs of the training functions now
performed in their zones by the development corporations.
3.1.2.3     Introduction of a new farm credit system
One of the key elements in the Government's effort to raise agricultural
output is the promotion of effective and viable rural financial intermediation
systems. Once CNCA activities came to a halt, restructuring of the country's
farm credit system became a matter requiring close attention from the
authorities. At the moment, rural credit is made available only through
certain development projects and agencies and to a marginal degree through the
savings and loan cooperative system (FUCEC-COOPEC). If the obstacles to
enlargement of the total area of farms and to improvements in productivity are
to be removed, the rural economy must be recapitalized.
The first step in the process of promoting financial intermediation
institutions in the rural world will be the dismantling of CNCA, which the
Government has decided should begin before the end of September 1990. During
the current series of discussions with donors on the fostering of new rural
credit systems, the Government has emphasized its conviction that the
conditions which guarantee the effectiveness of a farm credit system are many



84                          ANNEX V
and should be created gradually. As part of SAP IV, the Government will adopt
and apply the basic principles that are to govern the new rural credit system.
At a minimum, these will include:
-     Farm credit should be regarded as an evolving concept so that it can
eventually be integrated with the general strategy of capital market
development. This would enable the economic system to channel
investments into the most cost-effective activities within a particular
sector or among -arious sectors.
-     Credit does not bring about recapitalization unless allocated to
activities with high marginal productivity. When production units
obtain credit for very low-yield activities they find it difficult to
meet their debt-service obligations, condemning the system to failure.
-     The credit system should lead to growth, higher incomes and increased
saving. If the r':ral sector savings rate is low, demand for credit will
be that much higher, creating considerable pressure on financing
mechanisms. Credit and savings are thus two inseparable elements in a
feasible farm credit system.
-     The institutional mechanisms and procedures surrounding farm credit
should be tailored to the nature and activities of production systems.
They should be based on mutual benefit principles, active participation
by interested parties, and a commitment -- in the name of community
welfare -- to repayment obligations. In addition, they should guarantee
not only the viability of the system by keeping credit delivery costs to
the minimum and insisting on this commitment to repayment obligations,
but also its adaptability, flexibility and acceptability to the rural
world.
-     rThe system should be free to set its own interest rates, which,
generally speaking, will reflect the costs of lending operations and the
risks of nonrecovery, so that its financial soundness will not be
undermined.
-     The level of service provided and the number and size of loans granted
should be geared to real demand and the nature of the activities
financed, rather than to the availability of funds within the system;
also, the loan approval function should be vested in each institution's
Management Board.
3.1.3       Productivity gains and product diversification
3.1.3.1     Fertilizer policy
If the reiiability and expansion of agricultural production in general
and grain production in particular are to be assured, then a coherent
fertilizer policy is needed to eliminate the obstacles to higher yields. At
present, with the exception of cotton, crops receive marginal fertilization. A
mere 8a of grain-growing land (35,000 ha out of 420,000 ha sown) is treated
with between 5,000 and 8,000 metric tons of fertilizer annually. On the other



85                          ANNEX V
hand, over 90Z of cotton-growing land (70,000 ha) is treated with between
12,000 and 15,000 tons of fertilizer.
From the Government's standpoint, the fertilizer issue is not limited
just to the question of subsidies, but calls for a comprehensive approach to
all obstacles to increased fertilizer use with foodcrops, in particular:
-     choice of formulas to match crop requirements and soil types;
-     demand as dictated by production goals and soil fertility maintenance
requirements;
-     supply channels;
-     availability at the right times;
-     producer access (geographical) to supplies;
-     arrangements for sale to producers in light of their financial position
and access to credit;
-     economic importance of access to fertilizers at the producer level and
macroeconomic costs/benefits of production with/without fertilization.
The different facets of the fertilizer issue are complex and are the
subject of an IFDC study, the final conclusions from which are expected to be
available in late 1990. On the basis of those conclusions, a plan of action
for introduction of a coherent policy governing fertilizer use and input
distribution will be formulated in the course of 1991.
In the meantime, the authorities will make every effort to optimize
fertilizer and pesticide distribution to non-cotton producing farmers by
reorganizing the Fertilizer and Farm Inputs Service as part of the
restructuring of the Ministry of Rural Development. The main concern here
will be to eliminate administrative constraints that impede the efficient
functioning of the Service and to achieve significant economies throughout the
fertilizer subsector. In addition, during the first half of 1991, the
Government will set up a joint working group with the private sector (Chamber
of Commerce) to study the technical and financial conditions which would make
it feasible for the private sector to participate in fertilizer distribution.
3.1.3.2     Seed policy
The New Rural Development Strategy sets out the major lines of the
Government's seed policy very clearly. However, a number of questions need to
be solved in connection with: development by the research apparatus of
varieties that are higher-yielding and better adapted to local agro-ecological
conditions; development of more cost-effective seed multiplication operations;
and efficient monitoring of the conditions under which multiplication farmers
work so as to ensure their output is of high quality.



86                          ANNEX V
In order to improve the present conditions under which foodcrop seed is
produced, the Govei:imuent will set up the following system:
-     pre-base seedi will be produced on the experimental stations run by the
research apparatus;
-     base seed )lli1 be produced mainly on the Sotouboua seed farm; SOTOCO
(Socidt6 to,,,viucse du coton) is expected to stop basic seed production
in 1992;
-     commercial seed will be produced by multiplication farmers using basic
seed from S          with extension assistance from the DRDRs and the
developmenr (-i--porations, and under DNERA supervision.
Seed for casl and tuber crops will be produced and distributed as at
present -- that is, under the supervision of the competent entities (SOTOCO,
SRCC and INPT).  'l'ie Government proposes to undertake the studies for a
National Seed Pla&' during 1991; all aspects of production, supply distribution
and pricing policy if the seed subsector will be reviewed.
3.1.3.3     Irrigation facilities
Irrigation facilities already in existence are under-utilized because
of: land-tenure problems not yet fully resolved; lack of maintenance of
network infrastructure; inadequate extension services; poor management by user
groups; non-incentive agricultural prices; and lack of farm credit.
Therefore, as part of the Agricultural Support Services Project, the
Government will take the following short- and medium-term measures to
rehabilitate existing facilities and promote their rational use:
-     adoption of a plan of action to revitalize the CATIs (Centres d'appu
technique aux irrigations), promote wider use of small-scale irrigation,
and develop bottomlands;
coordination of the irrigation development activities of the various
entities working in this arena (Ministry, DAM, NGOs, etc.);
promotion of the operation and management of irrigation networks and
developed bottomlands by user associations, and provision of user
training.
3.1.3.4     Farming eguipment
Poor farming equipment is one of the major obstacles to extension of the
country's arable land surface and to improvements in productivity, and sound
farmland management and improvement techniques are critical in all production
units. The UPROMA Project has raised high hopes for the use of animal
traction. Although it has now become a permanent feature in some regions of
the country, promotion of its use on a large scale poses difficulties that
have to do mainly with the adaptation of both animals and equipment, less-



87                          ANNEX V
than-optimal use of units, lack of farmer training, the very high cost of
units, and financing practices.
In order to create the conditions for an in-depth study of the obstacles
to increased mechanization of farming, particularly through the use of animal
traction, the Ministry of Rural Development, as part of its own
reorganization, will revitalize its Farm Machinery Division (Directorate of
Rural Engineering), which is responsible for administering farm equipment
policy, and at the same time will strengthen the technical liaison between
that Division and agencies like DRDRs, SOTOCO and SRCC, which function at
field level. In addition, special attention will be given to fostering small-
scale motorization, particularly through young farmer settlement projects.
3.1.3.5     Agricultural research
The New Rural Developmint Strategy emphasizes the importance and role of
agricultural research in raising productivity, in particular through:
identification and transfer 'f appropriate technical packages; integration of
cropgrowing and stockraising; improved knowledge of production systems; and
understanding of producers' behavior as molded by their socioeconomic
environment. This researct. will be of the applied type and will combine
thematic and R&D approaches.
Reorganization of the Ministry of Rural Development will include
measures that affect research, the most important of them being creation of a
National Directorate of Agricultural Research. This entity will be
responsible for supervising the country's various research institutes and
centers, especially the Institut national des cultures vivri4res, created by
the merger of the present Directorate of Agricultural Research and the
Institut national des plantes & tubercules; a "achnical Directorate will also
be established, one of its divisions being given responsibility for
progranming and analysis of production systems. This new approach is a first
step toward integrating research programs with agriculture policy goals and
in-the-field action programs-
3.1.3.6     Pre- and post-harvest crop protection
It is widely recognized that post-harvest losses occurring chiefly
during the storage period can amount to 20-252 of output. Grain storage and
conservation conditions, as determinants of product quality, are essential
considerations in export development. In the course of 1991, the Government
will therefore formulate a national policy on post-harvest conservation and
protection of crops. Where storage is concerned, it will institute a plan of
action to identify specific projects suitable for inclusion in the next Public
Investment Program.
3.1.3.7     Environmental protection and soil conservation
The Government's agricultural policy, in addition to emphasizing
increased productivity, also recognizes that such natural resources as land,
water and vegetation cover are major components of the national wealth.



88                           ANNEX V
Rational management of these resources is therefore a crucial factor in any
development strategy.
The Ministry of Rural Development will therefore emphasize the
implementation of projects that associate cropgrowing, stockraising and
reforestation and will encourage an agro-silvi-pastoral approach to
development, giving special importance to integrated methods of rural
development. In addition, steps will be taken to strengthen the links between
services provided at farm level and meteorological forecasting so that the
results of the latter can be incorporated more effectively into development
actions.
3.1.4       Measures specifically focused on food production
Since food production is a crucial element in the country's food
security strategy, the authorities assign the highest priority to introducing
incentive measures to reinforce the production and marketing of foodstuffs.
These measures have to do in particular with trade development, processing,
increasing foodcrop production (rice, in particular) and establishing the
productior. of tuber crops on a firm footing.
3.1.4.1     Development of domestic and foreign trade
Trade development on the domestic, subregional and export markets is
likely to boost production and increase food security. Since such development
is largely in the hands of the private sector, the authorities need to create
the conditions for maximum trade/food security synergy. Given the possibility
of offsets between food security imperatives and trade development, the
Government has moved to liberalize exports of grain and other agricultural
products:
For countries which are not members of ECOWAS, Decree 86/210 of November
25, 1986 authorizes exports of grain and other food products under a
system of export licenses issued by a National Commission on the
recommendation of a Technical Committee. While these requirements apply
to the so-called strategic food products (grains and tubers), other food
products such as vegetables may be exported free of all duties and taxes
and are not subject to any non-tariff limitations (quotas, export
licenses or permits).
-     For ECOWAS countries, Decree 89/29 of February 28, 1989, together with
its Implementing Order No. 281/MEF/MCT of May 28, 1989, abolishes non-
tariff barriers (licenses, permits, quotas) to intra-Community trade in
products originating within the Community. Such products are exempted
from all customs export duties and charges. On import into the national
territory, they are exempted from the entry duty and the statistical tax
but not from the transaction tax, general business tax or customs stamp
duty.
-     Ministerial Order of May 25, 1989 created the Committee for Study and
Promotion of Nontraditional Exports (CEPE). Composed of 22
representatives of the public and private sectors, it has completed a



89                          ANNEX V
diagnostic review of the present situation and is scheduled to issue
recommendations for specific actions by the end of July 1990.
On the basis of these recommendations, and by March 1991, the Government
will formulate a plan of action to promote exports. As far as the short term
is concerned, the authorities will take steps before the end of 1990 to*
-     eliminate bureaucratic obstacles to application of the provisions of
Decrees 861201 and 89129, specifically through participation by
representatives of the Customs Office and the Ministry of Interior in
the work of CEPE, and better disseminatiom of information to economic
operators and officials responsible for implementing the two Decrees;
-     improve the quality and presentation of export products;
-     foster export business by creating a permanent secretariat to direct the
work of the CEPE and coordinate the promotion of grain and other food.
3.1.4.2     Processing
To supply the domestic market with processed consumer foodstuffs that
can be substituted for imported products, the Goverrment has decided on a
concerted effort to promote domestic products and mitigate the various
problems associated with their processing.
The Ministry of Rural Development will therefore carry out a study on
semi-industrial and artisanal methods of processing and ways to promote them.
The resulting findings will be used as the basis for a plan of action to
strengthen and improve grain and tuber processing through the implementation
of specific projects.
3.1.4.3     Development of rice growing
Paddy output accounts for only 5? of all grain production. In order to
meet demand -- mainly in urban areas, at the moment -- Togo imports some
20,000-25,000 metric tons of rice a year (some of which is reexported), or the
equivalent of 36,000 tons of paddy. Given the growing rate of urban
development in Togo and the growing acceptance of rice as a dietary staple,
domestic demand is likely to rise to about 30,000 tons (or 43,000 tons of
paddy) by 1995. In order to limit the volume of rice imports, therefore, the
Government proposes to introduce a plan to revive rainfed,and irrigated paddy
production on a scale consistent with the potential afforded by existing land
and water resources.
3.1.5       Cash crops
Where coffee and cocoa are concerned, the Government proposes td
increase the rate of growth in output observed in recent years by encouraging
the planting of more new coffee trees and more active maintenance (extensive
pruning, use of fertilizers) on long-established coffee plantations.
Examination of ways to revitalize and increase cocoa production will continue,
attention being given to land-tenure and soil problems and the quest for plant



90                          ANNE V
material resistant to swollen shoot. With cotton, the chief concern will be
to intensify cultivation methods. With groundnuts, improved high-yield
varieties adapted to local soil conditions will be more widely distributed.
Because coconut palm and processed coconut products are a major revenue
source, their considerable still untapped potential is worth developing; the
Government will therefore begin a project to rehabilitate existing plantations
and establish more new plantations at village level. Since Togolese
pineapples are highly appreciated on the international market, programs will
be introduced to increase the surface area currently devoted to them. In the
whole arena of cash crop diversification, nontraditional products will be
tested and then developed if trials prove encouraging.
In the cotton, coffee and cocoa subsectors, the Government's strategy
will be to devote most attention to achieving economies in the areas of
primary marketing, processing and export exposure. If the financial
imbalances that remain after corrective measures are taken are still serious,
a second stage would be devoted to identifying supplementary means of saving
through cost recovery measures or a change in the producer price.
The Government will continue with the flexible system of setting
producer prices on export crops through the Fiduciary Committee which
administers the mechanisms for determining cash crop prices. This is a system
which gives producers the maximum benefit from export prices: the final price
they receive consists of a guaranteed floor price announced prior to the
opening of the crop season plus a supplement if market conditions allow.
3.1.6.      Livestock and fishery production
A diagnostic study of the livestock subsector conducted in 1988 as a
preliminary to formulation of a master plan promoting animal products
identified the major obstacles to development in this sphere, which arose
chiefly out of productivity.
If the meat deficit is to be reduced, all actions taken to promote
livestock farming will need to put special emphasis on increased productivity.
The Government will therefore take a series of measures, namelys
*     Formulation and implementation of a national animal and fishery products
plan, consisting of priority measures and action programs to:
-     encourage the raising of short-cycle animal species (small
ruminants, poultry, hogs, etc.) with particular emphasis on
expanding the traditional focus on small ruminants and poultry and
on the role of the private sector in supplying essential inputs
(feed, chick! and small items of equipment);
-     integrate cropgroving and livestock activities to an increasing
degree, with special emphasis on animal traction use and pasture
development (watering facilities, stock routes, grazing areas);



91                          ANNEX V
develop fish famning and expand artisanal fishery activity both
inland and offshore.
*     Reinforcement of subsector support structures through:  reorganization
and merging of the three main Directorates responsible for the
subsector; design of priority programs; and formulation of a regionally
focused action plan to foster work programs with producers.
*     Intensification of training programs for extension agents and training.
and social organization programs for livestock farmers.
*     Set-up of a workable research structure and formulation of a master
research plan.
These various measures will be implemented in the form of specific
action programs in each of the arenas mentioned.
3.1.7       Forest production
Within the framework of the same major lines of action, the Government
has taken specific steps in the forestry subsector tot
-     reorganize and revitalize the administrative agencies responsible for
the country's forests;
-     reinforce the structures underlying forest production;
-     develop and strengthen the structures on which forest ecosystem
protection, management and conservation are based;
-     intensify forestry extension services and the campaign to promote
environmental awareness;
-     promote the formation of village-commmnity groups to engage in forestry
activities;
-     develop research into agro-forestry and disseminate knowledge of agro-
forestry practices through extension agents;
-     develop small forest industries within the rural world.
Finally, with a view to channeling, organizing and monitoring forestry
action programs better, the Government, with leadership assistance from FAO,
has committed itself to drawing up a Tropical Forest Action Plan covering all
spheres regarded in international circles as meriting priority treatment.
3.1.8       Market-garden products
This category of products is made up of fruits, vegetables and flowers.
Unlike the food and cash crop subsectors, the market-garden subsector has not
been the focus of nationwide action to develop and promote *nontraditional*
products. Potential for production, consumption and export of such products



92                          ANNEX V
certainly exists and merits particular attention as part of the move to
diversify and increase export revenues. This being so, the Government is
awaiting proposals from CEPE on which to base a new strategy for
revitalization and promotion of the production and export of nontraditional
products.
3.1.9       Role of TOGOGRAIN
While taking steps to promote exports of surplus grain, the Government
has limited TOGOGRAIN's role to the management of a buffer stock. Since June
1986, the size of this stock has been set at 12,000 tons, one third of which
may be renewed each year. In the interests of improving the way the stock is
managed, the Government will:
-     implement Recovery Plan reconmendations for a coherent buffer stock
management policy and cost reduction measures;
-     import grain to supplement or reconstitute buffer stocks if the harvest
fails;
-     strengthen the system the Directorate of Agricultural Surveys and
Statistics uses for forecasting. harvests, determining the food balance
and monitoring market prices.
3.1.10            Role of OPAT
In order to reduce OPAT operating costs, the Government has taken a
series of steps since 1986 to relieve the agency of certain activities not
directly tied to the marketing of agricultural products. In August 1989,
OPAT's Management Committee and Board of Directors adopted a new system of
internal organization to reflect the agency's redefined functions. In the
interests of making OPAT more efficient, the Government proposes to:
3     Limit the OPAT monopoly to the marketing of coffee, cocoa and cotton.
-     Reduce pesticide subsidies progressively.  Since the subsidy on
fertilizers used in the cotton subsector haE already been eliminated,
this new measure should allow further cost reduction.
-     Analyze the practices and procedures used in granting seasonal credits
to coffee traders with a view to limiting their total, since they are
difficult to recover. Until the findings from this study are available,
anticipated for March 1991, OPAT will abide strictly by the giidelines
issued with respect to limitation of such credits.
3.1.11      Obtaining better yields on investments
In recent years, significant progress has been made in the preparation
and monitoring of projects incorporated in the Public Investment Program.
However, additional effort is needed to perfect the present system, especially
as regards economic appraisal, financial and physical monitoring, and
inclusion of recurrent costs. As part of its reorganization, the Ministry of



93                          ANNEX V
Rural Development will therefore move to strengthen its planning and
monitoring units at both the headquarters and regional levels.
3.1.12      Coordination and monitoring of agriculture policy
By reorganizing the Ministry of Rural Development, the Government
expects to achieve a significant improvement in the effectiveness of that
agency's activities and investments in the agriculture sector. Following the
spirit of the New Rural Development Strategy, the Government intends to
emphasize the Ministry's role in the following arenass extension, formulation
of agriculture policy, planning and programlnig of actions, execution and
monitoring at the regional level, and investment coordination, consolidation
and oversight at the central level. With regard to agriculture policy
formulation, the Government, as part of the reorganization of the Ministry,
proposes to.
-     strengthen the ministerial unit responsible for planning, preparing for
and coordinating policy decisions;
-     centralize and strengthen the units responsible for budget
administration and execution;
reinforce the Agricultural Statistics Service, responsible for
establishing data banks and utilizing them as the basis for analyses of
changing trends in the agriculture sector.
Any significant improvement in agricultural productivity depends on a
combination of such factors as rainfall, prices, inputs and means of
production, the prevailing institutional environment, the degree and type of
producer organization, etc. The various measures proposed will therefore be
implemented in a coordinated fashion so as to ensure that institutional
reforms, investment and production support action are judiciously balanced.
In the overall sense, the various actions proposed fit in to the general
framework of the Government's policy of making the whole agricultural
production apparatus more efficient and laying solid foundations for sector
growth. The main concerns are to continue on the path of liberalization, to
focus intervention by the authorities on arenas where the private sector
cannot play a role, and to eliminate technical constraints and institutional
bottlenecks or inertia that are likely to impede dynamic development of the
sector.
As a general principle, the authorities, through programs which take the
social dimensions of adjustment into proper account, will seek to promote the
development of labor-intensive activities in the rural world so as to foster
job creation and improve income distribution. Programs of this type, which
might involve such activities as reforestation, the construction of small-
scale civil works (dams, etc.) or rural road maintenance, will be planned so
as to cause no disruption in agricultural production.



94                          ANN   V
3.2         Industry, Mining, Artis _nal Activities and Trade
3.2.1       Industrial sector
Because it has opted for economic liberalism and the encouragement of
private initiative, the Government is intent on providing the right conditions
for economic development by leaving the field free for private-sector economic
operators while at the same time ensuring that social imperatives are obeyed.
In its capacity as an economic agent, the State will therefore progressively
restrict its intervention in the economy to enterprises regarded as strategic
because they provide a major public service or fulfill a crucial development
mission. In general terms, the action the authorities propose to take in the
industrial sector is focused on three aims: reform of the public enterprises;
promotion of private initiative; and promotion of exports.
3.2.1.1     Public enterprise reform
Over the last few years, the Government has made a concerted effort to
achieve the above-mentioned goals by carrying out a major part of its original
program to privatizeIrestru=turelliquidate the public enterprises. This work
will continue. The public enterprise reform program is based not only on
partial or total withdrawal by the State from the enterprises but also on
improving the performance of those retained in its portfolio.
3.2.1.2     Withdrawal by the State
Withdrawal by the authorities from nonstrategic public enterprises will
be engineered in accordance with a set of precise criteria designed to:
-     limit the residual cost of the operation for which the authorities are
to remain responsible;
-     revitalize production while preserving as many jobs as possible;
-     attract Togolese capital and know-how on a large scale.
This approach will be followed in consolidating the original program and
to an equal extent in pursuing the new plan of action, which is focused on 18
public enterprises. Once the privatizations now under way are completed, the
primary concern will be to improve the performance of the enterprises retained
in the official portfolio.
The first phase of the withdrawal process will be completed by the end
of 1990. If the six enterprises targeted -- TOGOROUTE, SOTOTOLES, OTODI, FAB,
GAAN and MHTEUR -- cannot be successfully privatized by that time, they will
be liquidated. The Government has now taken the necessary steps to liquidate
CNCA, and TROPICANA and MIRAMAR have already been put up for sale as well.
For BALTEX, SONAPH, SATAL, SOTONAM, SONACOM and GTA, the Government, by the
end of October 1990, will have begun diagnostic studies to determine the most
appropriate courses of action, which will then be implemented before the end
of June 1991.  Where the following nine enterprises are concerned, Brasserie
du Bdnin, BTCI, BTD, CIMTOGO, SGMT, SIT, TOGOGAZ, UPROMA and UTB, the



95                          ANNEX V
Government will sell its holdings, preferably to the Togolese private sector.
The practical aspects of the sale process will be decided on prior to March
1991.
3.2.1.3     Improving the performance of public enterprises
Two programs will be used heret
*     Program affecting all public enterprisess
-     reform of the institutional and 'egal framework within which the
enterprises operate, and signature of program contracts with the
Government;
-     continued and methodical use of the Management Information System
in devising performance indicator charts and keeping them up to
date;
-     creation of autonomous enterprises to replace government
departments, as has been done in the postal and telecommunications
field (creation of OPTT) or in connection with the management and
administration of Lome airport (creation of SALT);
continuation of the program for audit and monitoring of
performance in implementing recommendations;
incentives for the public enterprises to expand their use of
subcontracting arrangements with small- and medium-scale local
businesses specializing in activities that fall outside the main
fields of action of the enterprises themselves;
organization of advanced training courses for public enterprise
managers, directors-general and professional staff.
*     Program to restructure each enterprise according to its specific needs,
particularly those in difficulties.
These two programs will mainly affect the 26 public enterprises in which
the Government is to remain the sole or majority shareholder. In these cases,
the Government's intentions are to:
-     reduce the extent of official supervision so that the enterprises can be
run more efficiently or more rationally;
-     give each Board of Directors a larger role, following the example of the
private sector;
-     subject the enterprises to the same commercial laws that govern the
private sector (e.g. as of January 1, 1990, the enterprises are subject
to general tax legislation).



96                          ANNEX V
The Public Enterprises Act, vow a bill, will be adopted by the
Government in September 1990 and come Into force on November 30, 1990.   The
related implementing decrees and regulations will be issued prior to March 31,
1991, and the Statutes of all the enterprises will be brought into line with
the new legislation and regulations by October 31, 1991. A list of the
enterprises required to enter into program contracts with the authorities will
be issued by September 30, 1990 and the contracts themselves will be signed by
October 31, 1991. The internal reorganization of the Ministry of Industry has
been completed, and the Government will now move to strengthen this agency as
part of the program to improve the performance of the country's entire
administrative apparatus; its various Directorates will be in full operation
by September 30, 1990 and their operating practices and procedures will be in
effect by the end of that year.
All public enterprises will be incorporated into the Management
Information System by the end of 1990, and the public enterprise audit program
will be extended to include all the major enterprises (including OTP and CNSS).
As a step toward increasing the transparency of the operations that take
place between the public enterprises and itself, the Government is now
conducting an extensive analysis of the place they occupy in the national
budget; to the extent their financial results improve, the enterprises will be
expected to take up responsibility for servicing their external debt.
The Government intends to review the financial relationships between
itself and the public enterprises, and to include in the process an
examination of direct and indirect transfers and cross-indebtedness between
itself and the enterprises and among the enterprises. On the basis of the
findings obtained, a plan of action to improve these relationships will be put
into effect by October 31, 1991.
3.2.1.4     Promotion of investments in the private sector
The Government has already taken numerous steps to encourage development
of the private sector (e.g. abolition of import monopolies, elimination of
import quotas, tariff reform, adoption of a new Investment Code, etc.).
In addition, in order to pave the way for a real expansion in private
initiative, the Government has supported creation of the Centre Togolais des
investisseurs, or CTI, which came into operation in January 1988 with a
mandate to provide a framework for and to support instances of private
initiative. To assist CTI in its mission, other institutions have also been,
or are about to be, set ups Fonds de participation aux prestations de
services (FPPS), which will begin operations in 1990; Fonds de commun de
placement; Societe de caution mutuelle, which will come into being in 1990;
Division pour l'assistance aux entreprises (DIVA), a part of Togo's Chamber of
Commerce, Agriculture and Industry (CCAIT).
Besides improving the institutional setting, the Government in October
1989 adopted a new Investment Code. Far-reaching tariff reforms also
instituted that same month simplified the structure of customs duties, reduced
the dispersion in duty rates, and brought taxation at the border into line



97                           ANNEX V
with internal taxation; a special 152 surcharge on all imported goods in
competition with domestically manufactured articles was also introduced, for a
maximum period of three years. The Government proposes as well to review and
streamline the present Labor Code and, if appropriate, to reduce regulatory
and administrative obstacles to the creation of new jobs.
3.2.1.5     Promotion of exports
Some of the anticipated effects of promoting export businesses are: an
improved balance of payments position for Togo; job creation; worker training
in industrial techniques; transfers of technology and management know-how; and
increased subcontracting business, to the benefit of local small and medium
enterprises.
(a)   Creation of industrial free trade zones:  A major element in the
Government's export promotion policy i.s the development of industrial free
trade zones. Once the proposed sitas are developed and equipped with the
necessary facilities, they will provide an incentive to investors to base
export-oriented operations in Togo. Law No. 89.14, the Export Processing
Zones Act, came into effect on September 18, 1989. Discussions are now in
process on the most appropriate methods of managing the social and economic
flows that activities in these zones will generate and on where the zones
should be located so that inter-regional equilibria can be protected.
(b)   Other export promotion measures:  The following are some of the
additional export incentive measures planned:
-     tax relief on export earnings;
-     study of ways to make the port of Lome more competitive with those in
neighboring countries and improvement of the south-north road link so as
to encourage transit traffic;
-     training programs in the particulars of international trade;
-     creation of a National Center for Foreign Trade;
-     in-depth analysis of factors affecting the competitiveness of
manufactured export goods, as part of a program of actions to benefit
Togolese industry; in light of the results of this analysis, the
authorities will introduce measures to ensure the future competitiveness
of domestic exports.
3.2.2       Mining
Although Togo is essentially an agricultural co-ntry, it possesses
considerable mineral resources, of which only phosphates, marble and limestone
are mined at present. Phosphates, produced and marketed by OPT (Office
Togolais des phosphates), are the country's chief mineral resource, but it
also possesses deposits of iron ore, bauxite, gold, lead and chromite. Well
aware that its economy relies heavily on international phosphate prices, Togo
has been committed since the early 1980s to a development strategy focused on



98                          ANNEX V
diversification of its mineral output. As frt as the 1990-1992 period is
concerned, it is the Government's intention w. press ahead with strategic
geochemical prospecting, tactical prospecting and the adoption of a Minerals
Plan for 1992.
3.2.3       Artisanal activities
The artisanal sector iF an important component of the T!ogolese economy,
employing about 8? of the laoor force and thus helping to improve the
employment situation. It can be divided into three subsectorss production on
a small scale, provision of services on a small scale, and crafts. Erxpansion
of artisanal activities will be achieved through improvements in working
conditions and work quality, establishment of marketing channels, and creation
of small and medium artisanal enterprises. Steps will also be taken to raise
artisans' educational levels.
3.2.4       Trade
The Government intends to maintain Togo's position as a center of
subregional trade, and will do so by continuing with its traditional policy of
openness to trade. Over the last two years, steps have been taken to
liberalize trade (elimination of SONACOM import monopolies, import licensing
requirements and quotas). Over the next five years, mechanisms will be set up
to reduce the deficit in the trade balance, foster and streamline domestic
trade, and expand transit business.
3.2.4.1     Reducing the trade deficit
In addition to creating a National Center for Foreign Trade and
industrial free trade zones, the Governmer, proposes to take other steps, in
particular:
-     improve monitoring of the Generalized System of Preferences;
_     support business promoters and exporters wishing to enter the export
sector.
3.2.4.2     Promotion of domestic trade
Togo's domestic trade is characterized by the coexistence of a modern
sector mostly in the hands of large foreign-based companies and an informal
sector. Action taken by the Government will be directed toward:
revitalization of the modern sector; organization and channeling of the
informal sector; study of ways and means to help young people establish
themselves in business, with particular attention to the problems encolutered
by women; and strengthening of product quality control.
3.2.4.3     Expanding transit business
If Togo is to remain competitive with other coastal countries in the
future, the different types of services on which the transportation chain
depends must be improved. A study will therefore be carried out to determine
the optimal conditions for transit through Togolese territory.



99                          ANNEX V
3.3         Tourism and Environment
3.3.1       Tourism
Tourism is Togo's third largest source of foreign exchange and directly
provides over 2,000 jobs. The Government's major concerns in the sector are
tot
_    make tourism infrastructure more cost-effective and competitiveg
-     diversify accommodation capacity by putting the emphasis on medium-class
hotels and vacation villages, in view of the present trend in demand;
-     promote the country's traditional artistic and cultural assets more
effectively, develop tourist sites thi.t will attract both Togolese and
international visitors, and ensure necional coverage of the whole
country;
institute a policy of tourism;
emphasize training for hotel personnel.
Particular attention will be paid to tourist bureaux abroad, air
transport, possible new charter air services, and promotion of Togolese arts
and crafts.
3.3.2       Environment
Sound management and conservation of natural resources and protection of
the environment are among the Government's priorities and account for the
enactment of the Environmental Code of November 3, 1988, legislation that is
concerned principally with: conservation of the environment; maintenance or
renewal of natural resources; prevention and curtAilment of activities likely
to harm the environment or the health or property  . individuals; and
rectification or redress of actual environmen*) mnage.  The following are
the major lines of action the Government wil' take in the interests of
environmental protection:
_     Control of soil degradation and desertification, through promotion of
appropriate farming practices, protection and development of watershed
areas, and reforestation. As far as reforestation is concerned, action
at the village community level will be promoted through labor-intensive
programs designed to increase job opportunities and improve income
distribution in rural areas.
-     Improved management of forest resources and development of other energy
sources. This type of action, hand in hand with reforestation programs,
is designed to result in rational exploitation of existing resources.
In view of the rate of population growth on the one hand and the
increasing scarcity of vegetation cover on the other, steps will be
taken to reduce fuelwood consumption (promotion of use of improved



100                          ANNEX V
cooking stoves, and research and extension in the use of alternative
and/or new sources of energy).
-     Protection and development of parks and reserves.
-     Managt-=:t of the impact of development activities on the environment so
as to av id pollution, through the formulation and enforcement of
preventive and corrective measures.
-     Improvement of public health conditions in urban areas, through better
sanitation (latrines, septic tanks), household trash collection and
treatment, and sewerage and storm water drainage.
On the institutional level, particular attention will be paid to
strengthening government departments and agencies responsible for
environmental matters, in particular through the provision of basic and
advanced trairLing for civil service staff in planning and in the
monitoring/evaluation of environmental protectie-n policies.
3.4         Economic Infrastructure Sectors
3.4.1       Energy sector
In the energy arena, development goals focus on national resource
enhancement and promotion of new and renewable energy sources so that
consumption of fuelwood and imported energy can be curtailed.
Government policy on the country's biomass, which constitutes over 70X
of the national energy balance, focuses on four concerns:
-     official reforestation programs (Forestry Development and Industrial
Reforestation Project (AFRI], Northern Togo Reforestation Project) and
reforestation programs undertaken at urban and village coumunity levels;
-     introduction of agro-forest cropgrowing systems;
-     reduction of firewood consumption through the wider use of improved
cooking stoves or butane gas;
-     preservation of the country's stock of forest land, through the creation
of new national parks and state forests.
In the electric power subsector, the Government's policy calls for the
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, extension services to promote the
use of electric energy, and improved management of CEET (Compagnie d'6nergie
electrigue du Togo). Specific action programs focus on:
-     rehabilitation of CEET generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, in particular Lom4's substations and medium-voltage network;
-     extension of Lome's medium- and low-voltage network so that the number
of subscribers -- and therefore CEET turnover -- can be increased;



101                          ANNEX V
interconnection of Kara with the coastal zone so that advantage can be
taken of hydropower from Nangbeto In preparation for closing down the
very costly thermal station at Kara;
interconnection of the Dapaong and Mango urban areas with the Volta
River Authority network, in preparation for closing down the costly
thermal stations in these two towns;
upgrading of CEET technical, admLnistrative and financial management;
continuation of the hydropower development program (the Adjarala dam)
and identification of sites for wall power stations.
As far as new and renewable sources of energy are concerned, the
University of Benin and the Directorate of Water and Energy Resources are
cooperating on solar energy research programs (pilot program for the drying of
agricultural products, manufacture of solar water heaters, installation of
solar pumps, etc.).
3.4.2       Transportation and communications
Government action programs in connection with transportation and roads
are designed tat
-     provide access to agricultural production areas;
-     facilitate trade between Togo and neighboring countries by modernizing
major roads;
-     improve comminications between Togo and other countries and between Lome
and towns in the interior of Togo;
-     meet domestic needs as well as ensuring and facilitating transit with
landlocked countries (Burkina Faso, Niger, Mali).
From now on, general transportation policy will be embodied in a
National Transportation Plan centered around the following concerns:
-     establishment and management of a data bank on the whole transportation
sector;
-     coordination and planning in the transportation iector;
-     rehabilitation of existing infrastructure;
-     control of the transportation market (taxation and regulations);
-     improvement of management capabiiities;
-     improvement of air services and port facilities;



102                          AN=EX V
-     reorganization of road traffic in Lam4;
-     implementation of a road safety program.
The objectives of this general transportation policy, and the
means of implementing it, will be as follows in the various transportation
subsectors:
3.4.2.1     Rail transportation
Efforts will be focused on the management reorganization of CFT (Chemins
de fer du Togo) by:
-     restructuring the agency in preparation for its adoption of an
autonomous management system of the commercial type;
-     cost reduction in the interests of financial equilibrium;
-     renovation of facilities and existing rolling stock as well as purchase
of new rolling stock for the central line.
In addition, the authorities intend to make arrangements for eliminating
service on the Lom6-Kpalimd line by the end of 1990 as a means of increasing
sector cost-effectiveness.
3.4.2.2     Air transportation
The Government's aim here is to upgrade air-service infrastructure
(airport locations, runways, terminals, technical equipment) so as to promote
both domestic and international fligbts in the interests of business and P.
higher volume of tourism. In addition to attracting qualified personnel and
providing high-grade logistical facilities, the authorities propose to
redefine the powers and functions of the Directorate of Civil Aviation so that
it is properly equipped for its role as coordinator of the various government
departments and agencies with responsibilities in the air transport arena.
3.4.2.3     Road transportation
The Government will continue its efforts to maintain and modernize
existing vehicle transportation and communications infrastructure. In
addition, it will endeavor to:
-     provide adequate resources to ensure maintenance of the national road
network, in particular by using the services of local small and medium
contracting firms;
-     improve road safety;
-     enforce official transport tariffs more strictly;
-     provide terminus facilities and the like for travelers;
-     rationalize the system of private-sector passenger transport services.



103                          ANNEX V
3.4.2.4     Maritime transportation
The Government's intention here is to set up mechanisms that will make
the port of Lome competitive with those of neighboring countries. It vill
also enforce the safety rules advocated by the International Maritime
Organization and liberalize registry requirements.
3.4.2.5     Mail and telecommunication servico,s
The concern here is to put telephone communications on a cost-effective
footing by automating the entire network, particularly in the prefectures, and
increasing the number of telephone booths. As regards postal services,
efforts will be directed toward improving quality of service and developing
mail distribution systems, particularly in rural areas.
3.4.3       Water resources
As part of its policy to provide all strata of the population with clean
water, the Government has for several years been implementing a vast program
to strengthen clean water production and distribution systems not only to
urban centers (especially Bassar, Mango, Tabligbo, Lom6, Kpalizm, Atakpame,
Dapaong and Sokode) but also to village communities.
3.4.3.1     Urban water supply
In LomO, where the water supply program is designed to be carried out in
two stages, the works making up the first stage have just been completed. In
order to utilize undisbursed stage I loan funds, additional works have been
planned in agreement with donors. Stage II works need to be begun rapidly so
that demand created by the rapidly increasing population of Lome can be met.
Future objectives are to:
-     give RNET (Regie nationale des eaux du Togo) added independence in the
investment planning sphere;
-     set water tariffs at a level which ensures cost recovery and produces a
surplus that will enable RNET itself to finance a major part of its
investments;
-     design an investment program consistent with expected revenue flows and
with the policy of extending water supply systems in secondary urban
centers.
3.4.3.2     Rural water supply
The Government's water program for 1981-1991 provides for the sinking of
approximately 7,000 wells to meet the needs of all rural communities with over
100 inhabitants. By the end of 1589, however, this goal had been no more than
half met. The Government therefore intends to continue with the program,
emphasizing pump maintenance and takeover of some equipment maintenance
responsibility by user groups.



104                          ANNEX V
3.4.4       Urban development, housing and sanitation
The Government's housing, urban development and sanitation policy -- to
be implemented via sector policies -- seeks to improve living conditions for
urban and rural population groups alike. It is proposed to:
-     carry out the Lowm  Urban Development Project, for which studies are now
in progress, and extend it to urban centers in the interior;
-     draw up master regional and urban development plans, as we.;l as detailed
urban development plans for all other towns vith populations in excess
of 5,000;
-     institute a coordinated policy of serviced-lot development;
-     set up mechanisms to faster a resurgence of private investment in low-
cost housing;
-     formulate a policy for publicly funded low-cost housing;
-     disseminate information on appropriate building techniques and the use
of local materials.
The Government is also committed to drawing up an overall housing policy
which covers all facets of the subject -- legislative, regulatory, financial,
technical, environmental -- and defines the roles and responsibilities of the
various parties concerned, i.e. central government departments, local
governments, architects, construction companies, lending institutions, housing
promotion entities, owners, renters, etc.
Reports from the SDA working group on low-cost housing will contribute
to the reflection and discussion process that is to precede actual formulation
of a housing policy and will make it possible to meet the specific needs of
those population groups at the greatest disadvantage in obtaining housing.
The Government will also launch a sanitation program to benefit the
Auba, Super Taco, Tokoin-Tame and Tokoin-Wuiti zones, an area totaling 518 ha.
A project on this scale is expected to improve sanitation conditions for
approximately 150,000 inhabitants of Lom.
3.5         Socio-Cultural Sectors
In order to promote growth with equity and develop the value and
capabilities of its human capital, Togo needs to allocate an adequate volume
of public resources to essential social services. To this end, special
priority will be accorded to basic education, primary health care, and the
supply of the requirements essential for proper functioning of these services.
3.5.1       Education and training
Employment is a major concern to the Government, which has moved to
adapt education and training not only to the demands of human resources



105                          ANNEX V
development but also to changes in the country's economy and labor market.
However, the constraints, mainly financial, associated with structural
adjustment have had a major impact on the education system on both the supply
and demand sides.
As far as general educatiot is concerned, the authorities will make
every effort over the next 24 m*;iths to arrive at and set in motion an
education and training policy designed first and foremost to respond to sector
financing and expenditure requirements and to guarantee the quality of
education. it will resolve questions of resource allocation among the
different levels of instruction and among the different expenditure
categories; priority will be given to teaching basic skills (reading, writing,
arithmetic) at the primary level and sciences and mathematics at the secondary
and higher levels.
Formation of an SDA working group on education will contribute to the
necessary reflection and discussion process, thereby generating
recommendations on ways to provide greater access to education and training
for socially disadvantaged groups.
3.5.1.1     Policy on basic education
Over the period 1980-86, there was a decline in both the overall number
of children attending school and the enrollment rate. However, a recovery on
the production side of the economy cannot be expected unless the level of
basic education available is appropriate. Since most jobs in Togo are in
agriculture and to a lesser degree in the informal sector, the schooling
system should first of all pave the *y for absorption of school-leavers into
these two sectors. Priority must go to revitalizing primary education in
rural areas and to literacy training. With this in mind, the Government
proposes to pursue three objectives:
_     improving the conditions under which pupils are taught;
-     improving the efficiency of the eduction system;
-     raising the school enrollment rate to the point where it matches the
population growth rate and the size of the school-age population.
3.5.1.2     Vocational training needs
In the informal sector, apprentice training is chiefly in the hands of
artisan-employers. Although it has the advantage of being directly adapted to
the type of job, the independent practitioners who provide it do not always
possess the required technical and teaching skills. Consequently, the
Government has set up a program -- just now progressing from the experimental
pilot stage to the dissemination and extension stage -- to reorganize
apprenticeship training and provide support for the informal sector in this
regard.
In the agricultural arena, experience with INFA (Ecole nationale de
formation agricole) at Tove constitutes a first step in a new training policy



106                          ANNEX V
approach. Other action programs and centers should add to this type of
experience. In rural primary schools, artisanal or farmlig activities have
already been included in the curriculum in order to initiate children in the
occupations open to them in their world.
3.5.1.3     Policy on technical education and vocational training
The Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(METFP) has already set in motion a broad program of institutional and
organizational reforms. It is to be continued, and will focus on adapting the
training system better to market rsiquirements bys
-     strengthening HETFP analytical capabilities and sector monitoring
arrangements (Labor Market Monitoring Unit);
-     reorganization of existing training institutes;
-     creation of a National Apprenticeship, Training and Vocational
Advancement Fund, through which projects in this arena can be financed;
-     design and preparation of suitable programs.
3.5.1.4     Main options for technical education reform
Technical education reform aims at Oprofessionalization,g which
requires:
(a)   Tailoring of training programs to the country's economic situation
and to the needs identified by the professionals associated with the
Vocational Training Council (Conseil supdrieur de la formation
professionnelle), an arm of METFP, and with the Professionalization Committee.
(b)   Revision of training methods, by:
-     stepping up practical workshop activities;
-     Instituting compulsory internships in companies as part of the
training course;
-     including practical exercises in business management in all study
programs;
-     including actual production activities in each teaching
establishment;
-     supplementing the training of traditional teachers by visits from
professionals direct from the work place.
(c)   Teacher training:  Sixty-eight teachers will be trained by 1991;
subsequently, other teachers will be trained at a steady rate of 10 per year.



107                          ANNEX V
3.5.1.5     Main options for vocational training and apprenticeship
In order to improve apprenticeship training, the general education and
instruction in theory which future artisans receive need co be intensified and
adapted to current changes in technology. This will require:
-     retraining of master artisans who supervise apprentices;
-     exposure of apprentices to both theoretical and practical training so
that present shortcomings in training workshops can be eradicated;
-     design of appropriate study programs, which should include the rudiments
of management and accounting.
At present, the Directorate of Apprenticeship, Training and Vocational
Advancement (DAFPP) is launching a pilot project for the reorganization of
apprentice training in Lome, which will be extended to Atakpame and Kara. The
National Center for Vocational Advancement (CNPP) is to receive support to
equip it better to provide ongoing training for individuals already employ
teacher training.
3.5.1.6     Rehabilitation and strengthening of institutions, infrastructure
and equipment
Revitalization of technical education and vocational training requires
the rehabilitation, strengthening and equipping of institutions and
infrastructure facilities.
(a)   Institutions:  Measures taken in this arena are:
-     reorganization of technical education and vocational training and
redefinition of the responsibilities of the various directorates
and other departments of the Ministry;
-     setting up of a Labor Market and Training Monito-:ing Unit within
the Directorate of Research (DERP);
-     reorganization of competitive entrance and course examinations for
technical education and apprenticeships;
-     establishment of a school location map.
(b)   Infrastructure:  Short- and medium-term goals are tot
-     reorganize and adapt the establishments and centers on which the
present technical education and vocational training system is
based so that they are better able to respond to labor market
needs;
-     rehabilitation, expansion and maintenance of infrastructure
facilities.



108                          ANNEX V
(c)   Technical equipments  Steps taken in this area will be focused ons
-     maintaining and rehabilitating equipment;
-     allocating more funds to training center operating budgets for
tools, supplies and training materials.
3.5.1.7     Improved staffing
This policy for the reorganization of technical education and vocational
training depends for its success on increased staffing and better staff
qualifications.
3.5.2       Health sector
The Government's health policy calls for greater attention to be
paid to decentralized primary health care and for immediate action to deal
with the following problemst
-     the health status of the mother and child (under age 15) population in
particular;
-     geographical unevenness of services, funding, personnel and
equipment/supplies;
-     inadequate budget appropriations;
-     availability of equipment/supplies, which are scarce, does not match
staffing levels;
-     shortcomings in the management, coordination and monitoring of programs;
-     scarcity of qualified personnel.
This new health policy is dependent on a significant increase in
appropriations for the health budget and in particular the decentralized
primary health care system. Recurrent health costs will be at least CFAF 6
billion in 1991, CPA? 6.4 billion in 1992, CFAF 6.9 billion in 1993 and CFAF
7.5 billion in 1994, while expenditure in other categories except manpower
will rise to 35Z of the Ministry of Health budget between now and 1995.
In addition, with assistance from donors, the Government is finalizing
preparations for the following programs:
-     strengthening of health care services;
-     institution building;
-     health information and education;
-     development of a national population policy;
-     training for health personnel.



109                          ANNEX V
3.5.2.1     Strengthening health care services
The Government's intention is to Improve health services by increasing
budget allocations for supplies and equipment and by instituting a cost
recovery program. In addition, it proposes to introduce reforms in the
pharmaceutical sector to improve the drug supply system and accessibility to
health care, particularly in rural areas. The program to improve health care
services will comprises
-     rehabilitation and reequipping of existing facilities and construction
of new health centers and dispensaries -- the emphasis throughout being
on the most disadvantaged localities;
-     sensitization and training of communities so that they become capable of
taking over responsibility for their own health problems and the
management of the health posts they use;
-     strengthening of the system by which essential drugs are supplied;
-     improvement of the health of the school-age population, through
strengthening of school health service programs; continuation and
strengthening of all priority programs incorporated in the Government's
sector policy.
3.5.2.2     SDA action in the health sector
In order to supplement and round out the programs enumerated above, the
Government will'participate with all other interested parties in an SDA
working group on health questions -- in other words, in a process of
discussion and reflection on what short- and medium-term steps can be taken to
provide the most disadvantaged social groups with access to health care and
related services. Particular attention will be paid to the following topics:
-     nutrition, with Ministry of Health participation in the creation and
operation of a Nutrition Monitoring Unit;
-     the health and nutritional status of children under age 5;
-     the health and nutritional status of pregnant women; access for the most
disadvantaged groups to essential drugs and basic health services
(including such preventive measures as vaccination, mother and infant
protection, and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases);
-     design and introduction of a cost recovery system throughout the public
health service network, with due allowance for the constraint affecting
the most disadvantaged groups;
-     fornu.Lation of.a national population policy that takes account of the
zpecific needs of the most disadvantaged groups.



110                          AKKU V
3.5.2.3     Institution building
In preparation for decentralization of the health care delivery system,
the Government proposes to reorganize its health apparatus, which will consist
in future of the following agenciess Ministry of Public Health, five Regional
Directorates of Public Health, and 21 Directorates of Health at prefecture
level. Each of the latter will run its own hospital and medico-social
centers, around which will gravitate dispensaries and health posts
(incorporating village pharmacies).
3.5.2.4     Health information and education program
This program will have two components:
-     sensitization of and dissemination of information to commaunities on
common diseases (intestinal, parasitical, infectious, etc.), hygiene,
sanitation, clean water supply and nutrition;
-     organization of local community groups (village health committees) with
a view to transferring health care responsibilities to these communities
themselves, creating local autonomous facilities, and drawing women into
full-scale participation in the ensuring activities.
3.5.2.5     Development of a national population policy
By August 31, 1990 at the latest, the Government will adopt a national
population policy, and will make a concerted effort to allow increasingly for
demographic variables in its planning so as to preclude economic and social
difficulties from undermining its development strategies. With this in mind,
it has created a Population Unit within the Ministry of Planning. In
addition, given its determination to protect the health of mothers and
infants, the Government will continue with its family planning and family
welfare policies. Family planning policy is ained at three objectives:
-     sensitization of target groups (students, young men and women, married
couples, traditional chiefs);
-     provision of contraceptive materials;
-     community takeover of responsibility for the program.
3.5.2.6     AIDS control policy
A National AIDS Control Committee (CNLS) has been created to formulate
and set in motion a national program for control of this disease. A short-
term plan has already been set up to:
-     develop an AIDS surveillancelmonitoring system;
-     define the criteria and methodology for testing target groups;



111                          ANNEX V
-     purchase laboratory equipment and the like for detecting and diagnosing
the disease.
In addition to the short-term plan, a medium-term plan has also been
developed, the objectives of which are tot
-     inform and educate the public so as to reduce transmission of the EIV
virus;
-     prevent transmission via blood transfusions;
-     prevent mother-infant transmission;
-     improve the care available to individual  who are HIV positive or sick
with AIDS;
-     develop and coordinate activities to prevent and control sexually
transmitted diseases;
-     improve knowledge of the epidemiological situation and assess
developments in the spread of the epidemic;
-     coordinate and promote research.
3.5.3       Welfare
The welfare sector, by its nature, is one of the priority arenas for
analyzing and dealing with the social dimensions of structural adjustment.
Since the contribution of the Ministry of Welfare and Women's Affairs will be
essential where SDA is concerned, emphasis will be placed on reorganizing it
institutionally and providing basic and advanced training for its managerial
and other personnel. The Government's policy in the welfare sector is focused
principally on continued close liaison with other governmental departments,
and on mobilizing the population in the interests of its own self-development
on all fronts (social, economic, cultural, etc.).
3.5.3.1     Maior avenues of welfare action
(a) Organization and motivation of the population through community
development programs designed to lead to the creation and training of Village
Development Committees.
(b) Continuation of the campaign against illiteracy through
intensification of the functional literacy program which targets young people
and adults. An integral part of the ongoing education effort will be to
reinforce newly acquired literacy through post-literacy activities.
(c) Prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency through programs
for minors with behavioral problem who have broken away from their families,
family counseling, educational action in an open environment to foster the



112                          ANNEX V
integrated development of the young people concerned and their reincorporation
into the mainstream and into active participation in the development process.
(d)   Action in the social assistance and welfare field will take two
forms:
-     organization of participatory or self-belp assistance for
individuals and families experiencing difficulties in adapting to
the effects of structural adjustment so that they become able to
meet their own needs by setting up and managing income-generating
activities;
-     provision of the traditional kinds of assistance for individuals
who are Incapable of meeting their own needs (the mentally ill,
abandoned children, elderly persons without means, etc.).
(e)   Training for the handicapped, who make up 102 of the population,
so that they are equipped to take part in the development process.
3.5.3.2     Social action programs
To make it possible to accomplish the objectives set out above, the
following programs will be implementeds
(a)   In-depth analysis of overall strategy in the social action field.
(b) The Community Development Program, which consists ofs appropriate
technology programs; creation of social infrastructure; setting up of
production groups; revitalization of the 1,500 Village Development Committees
that already exist and formation of new ones (one per village).
(c)   In the literacy and education field:
-     the functional literacy program targeting young people and adults;
_     the program to combat illiteracy in urban areas;
-     the post-literacy program, which comprises rural press and rural
library components.
(d)   In the youth protection and promotion areas
-     the program to provide educational opportunities in an open
environment;
strengthening of facilities for the reeducation of young people
and their reincorporation into the labor market;
the vocational training and job placement program for young people
in difficulties;



113                         ANNEX V
-     the program for placement of young street people in the labor
market.
te)   In the social assistance and welfare fields
-     the Income-Generating Activities Program, which is aimed at
different groups: women heads of household; unemployed young
people (skilled and unskilled); and persons dismissed from
employment on grounds of redundancy;
-     the traditional kinds of social assistance programs;
-     the awarenessieducation program on the nutrition requirements of
infants up to age S.
(f)   For the handicapped:  the specifically designed vocational
training and social integration program.



]  {blSal 1j,St  0tit kl0iizX 
'II!                     'hi'i                    11111l
01~. ii ii 0]                                }S
g~~~~I L1 i] .{ tti}E1



Z   t           ;   \                   ~~~~~~115..
, ~ ~~~~~                   ~  ~~~~~                                          ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,'  ' ,9. .     
-.~                      ,  3    .      ..
EZURTHI SIRUCnUCAL ADUSTMENT aWr
rouci MAW=                                              P 2 d 
POW0*yC             MmmTil    Udww         L        SAL IVMomn                                Adlan       IIUdIS
L  3IUC                                                                             Janphuntiuau to  1991
pda nowe                                                                                                    ^Lo 
RUOU.                                                    9 *9  C                                 -                -S~t
! st ~~~~, PIP, .,
a     AGN    . .  b . bi                                       .                    W
R lthlmna     Wm n  ad
U ".    w    hyu73.                  n dIdu ad IU%,           Pa1fr911f
l!asma                                                     , .    .uyhinIaR            ..iI~im1.          19 
aa' '.uWii       ('                                idiuumiula
-~~ uust                .e daatfi  Ips in p4199
~9            9 ,                                                            9          p_e)t 
*s3_b  (}                      innaldoiiemin*M
buarg|~wq.MI1in ma!    Grouwh1hnb4~phusdua6                 Wcgsr 'web In-a ts    Al 1991
0 ~    ~      ~      g      *.,      .                                       .                                           6 = 
-f 19743 7',1  inmmui  Ibium  I 1991an1992                            'u 'm
O ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ wi .n =... 'm ' ,       !'n                                1991.     ..
.~~~~~~~~~. '                 ,9                                     .'                               1992'  1
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                            .  9  ,,o    
.~~~~~~~ 90                                                     '              99X 
.9                                                 .                 ..      09'_ __9?iis
*                                         ,, -         *di   '             , -  -9
_ ,lh  'b          oseia.                         ,        _                                            -
99 ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      i" (.99   9. '             '
99          o       -                                     -l l
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                    . -                                      .- ,              ./ .L,               9
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  .9 
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~9 '                                     jI.w.~    ?



116
TOGO
FOURTH NRUCTRAL ADJUITdENT CREW
ANNEX VI
POLICY MATHX                                               Page 3 of 9
Policy Objeci        Masures Taken Under SAL M        SAL IV Meaues                     Mnaitoblc Ations       Taming
a PUBLIC
SECTOR
MANAGEENT
Enhmced efficiency    Provision of tech l assisan     Admisttive reforn of              To be addressed in the   1990-92
of public sector and   in Planang Mity and Ministy   Ministries ef Vouod    and         c<tx  of sctor-
reinfoen  of         Of  1ds  and Str  Ene             Tcic  Edcat in, R l              specific IDA projects
caaiy to foulae       MIS                              Developnn O   and Heal.
and implement
ceramic poicies.     Adminisaive refouns of OPAT
and MISE. Includig new
o_uhatimd stmctwm
Refoim and reinfomeet of         Signaure of a conta    Dember
Ministis of Pbning Fb    ce,    for Idepth diaosc    1990
and Commaere to Imre ovra   study of these three
ecomic  _nugm                    mu    sn anlyring
thef mandates
-   _ , and
dtfyg actians to
address in_titowu
deficiencies.
ady. mom=  an          1991
Sc t e ed ps c
aara  to adds o
_ 4nne of d&x
-anmdnn ter            199
o civil
20an ad
dbabs kad
RA& far gme           1992
gfna reauan  of;
!8 d tmhe ese d. of
a(tem abMU       bse 
eSeoand toaftmea se       do
" lbir tDnche _seb coadiew



E|1                                      1    " 1';  rsi 
iit'   011211p               0
'tSFlttRE;tilW};ElptE        Mt01:111
i  E  W            ii        'IF      'I        guh
.~~~                   iil   I



118
TOO
FOURW SlRUCrtUAL ADJUSTMW CuRT
ANNX VI
POUCY MAII                                              Pape  of 9
Poliey Objlective   Muue Tae Uner SAL m             SAL TV I Mu                     Moukora   Actdws      1Whl
EL PUBliC
(CoDN.)
SA  Opthahmimat    Davtopumadfa6segamm               haS asvmnL    Jngtag m of            Deaonnbw
__Asemem of         hifammice  bdm OMranem imas AM ino                                                    1990
oisaptises remaining   peovidig ecesamic Ad f&1ai                                   MIS
Bnacing efficienc                 ci of     of      Co _tim of   g-a  of           sbetision of aui"      1990se
e Pulic muia    cuerliinm  and finai, to nbdd CuSS ad                               to te Bak.
mgulzlti  of        Dewopmez of pdn   for
OA* irei     ih    legal frueak to maimaon the                  cmia  legal         Adcn of th new        October
th goanMa.          a  mny the pubic mtrse          fumewa  to pubric ades.   law by the Co l of   1990
relative to the govautm                                        Mstes Devep a
-n,_ to  pfoace
*MMf deni iee         Nadaebni
*vwaw.                1990
kogbmmds &"M     991
ad    mgolm
_ e~~f
_   af*  1992
14 W&p h f
82Lf."
*        _~~~ond



119
S040
IOUR1 mIRUClAtAL ADSUSW~ CzxRM
AHNE2VI
POUCY VAIRDC                                 Pop 6.e9
Nic Objdm       Mism T*n Undt SAL M    SALlI MmN                   MamuMu Adios    llmI
L PUMM        Suahn of .          It    ade  W* of fA_ Add        C_im  do Us      1991
WROMM       o ~o lbsomuaw fihslzsgbv.  ndaiie hiwes pTM        sm4
TC.)                                      _ds&  Ut dF GW#A
1992
~~-
hmvind ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     nd$a
MAT8 SIBCIQR
4A Tim d  1 lbWo 1m d SONACOWs  P w_m dofs                      _                    19910
b&wdI Pdbcy    buw  = yp md ow               GI_   _  d  fe
4.2 Pmnade .1    ewei ci fbf cand sa  ea noqadrsi  em
Mum                      wpmpSW and
Quadarnof
s*;me by Woab   Sai1
Iito lcan" mo  a_am   cmt.
42 P,   I& of   Revim cl v" coad  sa-    auyak i Iasw detig& de               oflndy.  D1e1
i bod8 w -ayi 9to_Saw  me SW            Pav ymS                 u
cmatm d         omdw_                                    mmpd m lh) ti
is_            dw           cc           fi       g_thsm  MW
V., AAGRUm LTURB
Qqsuf           pmdna    of a aiumibsd aa   dsAs mlaan wof m  pgDi ci psnota.        Dec 199
seew scawcddam    ad it u xweau.     sysaame td ..i.k -m aft-w Mgal
Jwauung atu                         w to<  dmmduak                 dm *p yAn
esys.  magim by ,suhaINIng hab
ag_fivu    O iI do bno 1udq i199
*   SAi  d d  sd asto        R uwdb ISDu
t_ IbId landis ada  uai "ym9
.~~~~~~~~WP
V. ARUTR
54 P*Sd eBtp  bqw -m         &   Jf AmU   Ann                                        Y w1 t A    A1991
OwIp tr pkbig _j-  boWan                                           S d po11-f   ha Mll1
I_I   d ciz    ReW  in atArs 8uv
~~~=wnam =&k  h
*Seed uwb  d otli
T,    _eb  l       , os



120
TOOO
FOURTI SMRUCrmAL ADUSTIEN aruCRE
ANNEK VI
POUCY MAIRDC                                             Pap 7 of 9
Policy Obelve        Measures Taken Ua  SAL m        SAL IV  Mea                     Menbl Acc              lmin
V. AGRKCULThLRE
(CONT.)
5.2 B}bae_ta of   IJbaalizaion of cp se of           Effective,            o _e a f  Induslafn c            1990
Mmeing               foodstuffs withi ECOWAS         pocy to liberalize epos wihin  representative fhm
Oppotnie f3r         tgaL                            ECOWAS rega.                    the Custom  ad
PFed Cp                                                                              Miisy of dte Inteso
in voak of Commitee
Enhaed inceves   Deoauat of new policy to                                           to pruner. nat-
fthnm    exposts     pr10mo01                                                        tradititO01,03Mona  xposs
end.fe
I _    of  _eass tA    1Cos tof study of  1990
a m  Committee to pramot
Eaboration  am        Mends 1991
edan prog n bsd
an Commiees Wok
53    r              P   msive elminaiof             hmpoved pwvisw   of  educl    Though IDA               1990-92
Dis=luio of          feiler subsidies m comn         sevices thoh  _mogais   of  A 8ricultrd Servies
-   I                p-                              A-    Miy.                      pri
act n                                                De   om ca uo ;abl              Sudy of fe             Decimbe
prdt  tough                                          sa for sa         t             distriuton sysm        1990
rdam of agiultur                                     f    s  to the non-cuan         i        pdes, timin
'mt syOss.                                          seocr.                           of deivy, hice of
Developm_n of an       Decenber
action p m  to         1991
imspve frffiw
dutiution to the non-
notto setr.
5,4 Reoson           Deon to lquid   CNCA.                        of liquidan of    Apponme                 Seofb
of natal Crdit       ulje  to a_emnt o pdncipe   CCAM                               liquid    for CNCA.    1990
sOm                 for new  ural aedit syst.
Elabrat of basi       Sepabe
Enhancg fas'                                                                         pricipl  to gevem      1990
aces to cqtl                                                                         new turd cedit
through cyreaton
miahb ae dft
VL HUMAN
RBSOURCB
DEVELIEIIT
6.1 Educaton         Developmnt of a suay to               e       f  torm Of        Mathoed in IDA         1990g
teom techl and Vocational    tecia educain sysa                 Tednmicl Educato
eduaion    mm closely match                                     PtojecL
-i wthh madmt neeL
* Second udet  isea conditon
" Third umche wlea  conditi



121
ROURIl S1IUCI1URAL AWWWWFW CRBI
PWICY MAIM                                       PS 8~
FbNy Objsul       MtaWas Taka Wff SAL MU   SAL IV Maamu                  McIIM.b Aadoas    libs
(CONT.)                                expCoftaat ten n.  ed 199
,A~ummPem
*               imguagswwmmat    MAihai    Aiwiwnt hvtha       Minh'.   1
*    . A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ kw   dew                O            e*=kb
moaldmmam.i   8*0aig   ofgian  it oa n ha%ai u .  aaa.pwatTo inelp   dwmuiiz          k d   1990
InpalcydouIn Aw admV
ADASTMERr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiSA
*Ssamda wd   Pai.usain                 .        mpma  miaeod               orafmdw             M
so ldahemel. atem  emudMat         /  .      .at
184090aso faOily              cws~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h4Aq~.       ..         ..n-whi die
Pbd* ad                6anUdmL                            ilt dk CHL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
min= tow.                                        .            SS 
30=4"aftI A    .0                 '7 -   . S                        /



122
-na ~alurL WUmw
.                           .                                     JW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aam VI
POUC=  .OM                        ..       p 9 d9
raw 04)sbv      Vmmm Tdm Uadv SAL In SAL TV  mm                                r_            .
. ~  ~    ~~~ .t~u                      Ds).m     
-~- ,
Vi SOCIL                                                                 a se D_fedD _d  0
DU11EM GP           zo _is to _kboo                                    -
miwd                          m _     i.
I                                     0'of00  A I
*  a                                                             _                   , .s
of   of *t oi     B    i
.,,    .* abs                                                                          ',   .
-.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_0  _*IW                     191
' . .' ef _I it 
V  ~-  -                                     I                        I
d _   r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 



