Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2247-UNI
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 1979
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Naira (N)
N 1.000           = US $1.54
US $1.00          = N 0.649
UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
mm   =  millimeter            (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
cm   =  centimeter            (1 centimeter = 0.39 inches)
m    =  meter                 (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km   =  kilometer             (1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2  =  square kilometer      (1 km2 = 247.1 acres = 100 hectares)
ha   =  hectare               (1 hectare = 10,000 square meters
3  3   =  2.47 acres)
m3   =  cubic meter           (1 m  = 264.2 U.S. gallons
= 35.3 cubic feet)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMlS
FGN       =   Federal Government of Nigeria
KCDB          Kaduna Capital Development Board
KSG           Kaduna State Government
KSWB          Kaduna State Water Board
LBIN          Louis Berger Incorporated Nigeria, Consulting Engineers
NEPA      =   National Electric Power Authority
NRBDA         Niger River Basin Development Authority
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WAP           Ward, Ashcroft Parkman (Nigeria), Consulting Engineers
WHO       =   World Health Organization
FMAWR         Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources,
FISCAL YEAR
Fiscal year ends March 31 for Kaduna State Water Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - KADUNA STATE
KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Background ............................ * ...........................    1
National Aspects of Sector Developments .................        ..   1
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade ........   2
Sector Organization in Kaduna State .......................   2
Water Resources in Kaduna State ..........................   3
Water Supply in Kaduna State and Service Levels ...........   4
Water Sector Developments ..... . ............ . .................. .   5
Wastewater Disposal in Kaduna State Service Levels ........   6
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
I,ocation ........................................................    7
Population and Regional Development Prospects .           ............   7
Residential Patterns .*................... O...*........................ .   8
Existing Water Supply Facilities and Standards of Service..   9
Operation and Maintenance .....  .................. . . . .. .  .   10
Service to the Urban Poor                                            10.....................  lO
Future Water Demand ..* ... ..        ...............................  12
Existing Waste Disposal Systems and Standards of Service ..  15
Future Developments in Waste Disposal and Public Health  ...  17
Management and Operations Improvement Plan ...............        .  19
III.   THE PROJECT
Genesis ................................................ *........   18
Objectives ...........        .....................................  18
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards ..........  20
Description of Project Components .........................  20
Cost Estimates ....................................... *..............  21
Project Financing . ................................. .......  24
Implementation .......         .....................................  24
Kaduna South Waterworks ....          ...............................  28
Water Resources Aspects ........          ...........................  28
Environmental and Health Aspects ..........................  30
Procurement ....................................   30
Disbursements .........................................  31
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Nigeria in May-June, 1978, comprising Messrs. Buky (Sanitary Engineer) and
Prenoveau (Deputy Division Chief) and Messrs. Grover (Consulting Sanitary
Engineer) and Hutchins (Consulting Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
IV.   ECONOIMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits ...................................................  33
Least Cost Solution ... ............       ... *....................  33
Pricing Considerations . .............. ............. . .......  34
Internal Economic Rate of Return ..........................  35
Impact on the Poverty Group ...............................  36
V.   THE BENEFICIARY
Lending Arrangements .......... ...... . . *....................  38
Organization .......................... ....................  38
Training ........... .................. .....................  41
Management   Systems    ..........  ..... .   ............................o..    44
Reporting and Monitoring . ..... ..o..... .. .     .. ...   ... ........  44
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance ....................        45
Tariffs .....o...... o ...........-.........  46
Financing Strategy ...   ..... . ..        . . . . .. ..    ........  47
F'inancing Plan ....................o...o.....o..o.... ...   47
Future Financial Performance ............. ... ...............  49
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Merit and Risks ..o.o.... ....o.... . .. ..... .... .... ... ..  50
Agreements Reached .. ... .........     ..... .     . ... .. ........  50
Recommendation ... oo... ............... . . * * . * * *  .** * .... *   ...  52
CHARTS
2.1     Kaduna Urban Area - Population Projections ........... ... .  13
2.2     Kaduna District System - Projected Capacity, Production
& Sales ..................................... *...   14
3.1     Implementation Schedule ... o .................. .....  25
5.1     KSWB - Present Organization ...... ooo   ............o..   39
TABLES
3.1     Summary Cost Estimates  ..... ... .....  . ... .. ... . .   22
3.2     Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements .......o.. ..........    32
ANNEXES
1.   Outline of KSWB's Emergency Works Program
2.   Training Component - Cost Estimates
3.   Proposed Monitoring Indicators
4.   Financial Tables
5.   List of Documents in Project File
6.   Management and Operations Improvement Plan
7.   Comparative Cost of Water Supply in
Some West African Countries
8.   Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
MAPS
1. Kaduna State ... ..... ..... IBRD 13938
2. Kaduna Urban Area                      ..                   IBRD 13939



I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Nigeria, with a 1978 population of approximately 80 million, is the
most populous nation in Africa.  Kaduna State, formerly North Central State
covers an area of 69,500 km or 7.6% of the total area of Nigeria (see Map
13938).  The estimated 1978 population of Kaduna State was just over 6 million.
The last official census prepared in 1963 indicates that Kaduna was the fourth
most populous of today's states. There are probably more people in Kaduna
State than in some 36 of the 54 countries of Africa.
1.02      The Bank has not previously made a loan in the water supply and
waste disposal sector in Nigeria and has not yet carried out a sector survey
but such a survey is scheduled to start in 1979 under the WHO/IBRD cooperative
program.
National Aspects of Sector Developments
1.03      Under Nigeria's federal system of government, individual states
have the primary responsibility for the water supply and waste disposal
sector. Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR)
is responsible for the national and international aspects of water resources
allocation and for approving large water projects for which federal government
financing is requested. In 1976 eleven river basin authorities were created
by Federal decree to plan and develop surface water resources on a national
basis throughout Nigeria. The most important of these, as far as Kaduna State
is concerned, is the Niger River Basin Development Authority (NRBDA), with
headquarters at Ilorin in Kwara State. In July, 1977 this authority engaged a
consortium of consultants 1/ to carry out a prefeasibility study for the
Kaduna River Basin, the largest tributary in Nigeria to the Niger River. The
draft report, made available in mid-1978, contained a useful compilation
and analysis of existing information. In due course NRBDA will become respon-
sible for the obtaining and recording of basic hydrogeological, hydrological
and meteorological data and for the allocation of water resources for develop-
ment schemes but at this stage it is not yet able to fully discharge these
responsibilities.
1.04      Nigeria's plans for economic development are outlined in National
Development Plans, the third of which covers the period 1975-1980. Each
state has its own plan for the same period which is a component of the
national plan.  During the current plan period, the Federal Government set
the following policy objectives regarding urban water supply:
1/   The consortium comprises Nigerian Agricultural Promotions Company Ltd.,
associated with Ward, Ashcroft and Parkman (Nigeria) (WAP) and Booker
Africultural International Ltd. Sections of the report dealing with
water resources were prepared with the assistance of Parkman Consultants
Ltd. (UK); the Institute of Hydrology (UK); and Water Surveys (Nigeria)
Ltd.



-2-
(1) To ensure that all communities of 20,000 or more people
are provided with pipe-borne water by 1980; and
(2) To provide 115 liters (25 gallons) per head per day in all
urban centers.
However, to date sector developments have taken place largely in an uncoor-
dinated manner as the state agencies proceed more or less independently
following mostly local objectives and priorities.
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade
1.05      In March 1977, the United Nations Water Conference held in Mar del
Plata, Argentina, declared the period 1980-1990 the International Drinking
Water and Sanitation Decade. The Plan of Action adopted by the conference
provides guidelines for governments and international organizations for
action to be taken to achieve the provision of safe water supply and sani-
tation facilities for all by the year 1990. The period 1978-80 has been
specified for the assessment of existing situations and the preparation of
national plans and programs for achieving these goals. The World Health
Organization's (WHO) Thirtieth World Health Assembly resolved to collaborate
with member countries during this initial stage and one of the actions
suggested was a rapid assessment of ongoing programs and their possible ex-
pansion. WHO staff and resources are made available to assist interested
countries and the Bank is associated with this effort through the IBRD/WHO
Cooperative Program (CP). The rapid assessment exercise has been underway
in Nigeria with the assistance of WHO staff since July 1978 and the resulting
reports are expected in April 1979. This exercise, together with a full
sector survey planned to begin in 1979 are expected to increase sector knowl-
edge and development activities significantly.
Sector Organization in Kaduna State
1.06      Kaduna State consists of 14 local government divisions including
the Kaduna Capital Territory. These local governments are basically respon-
sible for services of a local nature (town planning; local roads and drainage;
disposal of solid wastes; town markets; etc.) but most lack the financial
and human resources to be effective. The principal public authority is the
Kaduna State Government (KSG) which is centered in Kaduna and is responsible
to the Military Administrator.
1.07      In Kaduna State the main water resources agency is the Kaduna State
Water Board (KSWB), whose basic function is the provision of water for
domestic, industrial and agricultural purposes throughout the state.  Before                X
KSWB was created in 1971 public water supply was the responsibility of the
Ministry of Works in Kaduna State Government (KSG). KSWB's organization
and activities are discussed in more detail in paras 5.02-5.09.  Kaduna's
Ministry of Economic Development is concerned with the allocation of financial
resources for KSWB activities. The FMAWR is responsible for the planning and
development of irrigation projects. The Ministry of Health monitors the
quality of water provided by KSWB to its consumers.



-3-
1.08      Until very recently there was no agency in Kaduna State with
specific responsibility for wastewater disposal. The Ministry of Health
is marginally involved (it has plans to build 150 public toilets throughout
the state), as are the local authorities who are responsible for some sani-
tation measures. In the capital of Kaduna, the Kaduna Capital Development
Board (KCDB), which is basically a planning authority (para. 2.03), has now
also been made responsible for sewerage in addition to its responsibilities
for the maintenance of roads and drains and for refuse collection and dis-
posal. KCDB was designated by the government to be the executing agency
for the ongoing Kaduna Sewerage and Drainage Project of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). Under this two-year project, which commenced
in October, 1977, engineering consultants 1/ prepared a Master Plan and
proposed immediate measures dealing with wastewater disposal, storm drainage
and refuse disposal in Kaduna. Initial draft reports by these consultants
were available at the time of appraisal. KCDB set up an advisory committee
(which first met in May, 1978) of experts from various government departments
and KSWB which reviewed the findings of the study as work progressed.
1.09      In the past there has been virtually no cooperation between KSWB
and the authorities responsible for planning and developing infrastructure
for Kaduna. KSWB had not been aware of revised estimates of present popula-
tion or projections of future population and land development which were
prepared by the UNDP consultants for KCDB. On the other hand, KCDB had not
been kept informed of KSWB plans for future water supply facilities. It
is clear that cooperation between these agencies needs to be greatly improved
if proper and rational development of the water supply and waste disposal
facilities is to take place in Kaduna.
Water Resources in Kaduna State
1.10      Kaduna State, extending from 90 to 130 north of the equator, has
its northern border adjacent to the Sahel zone below the Sahara. The climate
changes in a southward direction through semi-arid in the savannah areas of
the center of the state to the sub-humid regions in the south. Average
annual rainfall ranges from less than 700 mm in the northeast by the Niger
border to more than 1600 mm in the southeast, adjacent to Plateau State, as
shown on Map 13938. Most rainfall occurs in the months of May through
September with virtually none in the winter. Although the rainfall increases
from north to south in the state the population settlement pattern is almost
the reverse. This seems to be due to a combination of factors, of which the
most important may be the tse-tse fly infestation in the southern part of
Kaduna State. However in recent years there has been a noticeable population
movement southward, no doubt due to the devastating drought which struck the
Sahel region earlier in this decade. Whether such population shifts will
be permanent remains to be seen.
1.11      Runoff from the central (and major) portion of the state flows
into the Kaduna River, which runs generally westward across the state and
1/   Two firms of German consulting engineers:  Dr. G. Holfelder Ltd. (Freiburg)
in cooperation with G.K.W. Ltd. (Mannheim). The UNDP project deals with
both Kano and Kaduna, with a separate agency involved in Kano.



-4-
eventually empties into the Niger River near the town of Mureji. The river
is perennial, with flows at the town of Kaduna averaging 166 m /second.  The
highest flows occur in the months June through October, following the rains,
and the low flows in the three months February through April, are of the
order 0.6 m3/second or about 1% of flows in the wettest three months.
1.12      Smaller seasonal streams in the northern portion of Kaduna State
flow either west into the Sokoto-Rima basin or north to the Lake Chad basin.
The Mada River, a minor tributary to the Benue River, has its origins in the
humid southeast of the state. Although groundwater resources have not yet
been explored in detail, they are generally limited to low yielding shallow
wells except for some fissure aquifers in the crystalline bedrock.  Prospects
for high yield wells, as would be required for irrigation or larger scale
water supply, are bleak.
Water Supply in Kaduna State and Service Levels
Urban Supplies
1.13      Detailed and reliable information about present service levels for
water supply in Kaduna State is difficult to obtain. Excluding the Kaduna
urban area, the Kaduna state's population is in the order of 5.5 million. Of
these less than 1.0 million have access to water supplied by KSWB and even
these systems (particularly the rural ones) do not operate reliably. KSWB has
not published any reports and estimates about individual systems had to be
obtained from individual operating staff. In addition to the Kaduna urban
system discussed subsequently (paras 2.09 to 2.11), KSWB presently operates
nine urban water supply systems throughout the state, (see Map 13938).
Approximate characteristics of each system follow:
System      Estimated       Estimated %
Capacity       Total          Served by
Location        Source        (m /day)     Population        System
Zaria          Reservoir      27,300        200,000            50
Katsina        Reservoir      25,000        100,000           100
Dutsin-Ma      Reservoir       4,500         15,000           100
Funtua         Reservoir       4,500         50,000           100
Daura           Boreholes         450        25,000           100
Birnin Gwari   Reservoir       1,140          6,000           100
Malumfashi      Boreholes         450        25,000            40
Kafanchan       Spring          1,370        35,000            50
Manchok         Spring            680         2,000           100
458,000
These systems (except Manchok) essentially represent the eight Districts
of KSWB outside Kaduna. With the exception of Zaria and Katsina the exist-
ing facilities in these districts are very small, mostly consisting of the
single urban systems listed above. Most of the supply in these Districts
is by public standpipes providing essentially free water to the people.
Private connections are limited to industrial and public consumers.



-5-
Rural Supplies
1.14      KSWB also became responsible in the recent past for rural water
supply, taking over these responsibilities from the Rural Development Board.
A separate unit of KSWB carries out the work in this field. Most existing
rural schemes are in the northern part of the state where people and animals
suffered extensively during the previous Sahel drought. There are some 48
small dams or rain tanks, generally built very simply, without any design,
and most require desilting and enlargement. There are also a total of 529
drilled boreholes, of which 485 are equipped with Mono hand pumps and 44 with
motorized pumps. However, most of these pumps are broken and the majority of
the people have to rely on traditional sources, mostly hand-dug wells which
frequently dry up, causing long treks to alternative sources. There is no
reliable estimate of the people served by these rural systems, but the number
is probably less than 500,000.
Water Sector Developments
1.15      The Kaduna State 1975-80 Development Plan lists fourteen specific
water supply projects for implementation including the towns of Kaduna,
Zaria, and Katsina. Costs are estimated to total N 88.3 million (US$136
million) representing 16.2% of the state's total planned expenditures of
N 546 million (US$841 million) in eighteen sectors, with only the education
sector allocated more funds. All water supply projects in the plan were to
be carried out by KSWB but by mid-1978 the rate of expenditure was apparently
less than required to commit all budgeted funds within the present plan
period. It is clear that KSWB places great emphasis on developing supplies
for the population in the secondary urban centers and the rural areas through-
out the state as roughly half the proposed expenditures in the current plan
are for schemes outside the capital city of Kaduna.
1.16.     In order to improve its sectoral planning, KSWB (with Bank encour-
agement) engaged consultants in 1977 to prepare a master plan for water
supply for most of the state. MRT Consulting Engineers Limited 1/ completed
their report in June, 1978. It covers some 88% of the area of the state,
excluding the following two areas where comparable exercises were already
completed or underway:
(a)  Katsina Emirate in the north of Kaduna State for which
in 1973 a German consultant (Wakuti Consulting Engineers)
had submitted a master plan for the development of the
areas water resources, and
(b)  the Kaduna capital area for which another firm of con-
sultants, WAP, continue to plan water supply developments.
1/   A consortium of UK firms, composing:  Sir M. Macdonald & Partners;
Mott, Hay & Anderson International Ltd; Rendell, Palmer & Tritton;
and John Taylor & Sons.



-6-
The state wide master plan, excluding Katsina Emirate and Kaduna calls for
capital expenditures totalling N 131 million (US$202 million) for new water
supplies in the period 1980-1985.
1.17      Although the next development plan for Kaduna State is not yet
prepared, the estimated cost of KSWB's plans for specific water supply
projects during its fiscal years 1979-1985 may be summarized as follows:
N million   $ million
Kaduna Capital Area                        129.6        199.6
Other urban and rural areas                146.0        224.8
Total expenditures                  275.6       424.4
Projected expenditures for Kaduna are discussed in paragraph 3.10.  The
estimates for the other areas were provided by KSWB's planning staff as
representing the proposed developments in the state outside Kaduna. The
successful execution of this program will depend on the required financing
being made available by KSG and on KSWB's ability to complete the necessary
design work for the various projects (some of these are in progress). The
improvements in service levels in Kaduna State resulting from these projects
cannot be determined until a more advanced state of preparation is reached.
Successful state-wide water supply developments will depend on the improve-
ment and possible reorganization of KSWB's management of the Districts out-
side Kaduna, which are not capable of properly operating and maintaining
existing systems, let alone implementing new ones (para. 5.06).
Wastewater Disposal in Kaduna State - Service Levels
1.18      Wastewater disposal is rudimentary throughout Kaduna State.
Apart from the systems servicing a few institutions, mostly in Kaduna City
(para. 2.25), there are no piped sewerage systems in the State.  Town popu-
lations mostly rely on latrines, or septic tanks, but many people simply
defecate or urinate in the open. Not surprisingly the level of public health
is low, particularly in the high density urban areas where such practices are
prevalent.
1.19      Sewerage and drainage is one of the sectors with the smallest
budget allocation in the State's current Development Plan, i.e. a mere N 13.2
million (US$20.3 million) - 15% of the budget for water supply - of which
very little has so far been spent. The primary problem is that the agency
responsible for sewerage and drainage on a state-wide basis has only recently
become active. There are no sector objectives or policies. The Ministry of
Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Local Government and Community
Development both have marginal roles in this sector. The disposal of various
types of wastes is generally regarded as a local government responsibility
(para. 1.06) but this service has received limited attention so far, except in
Kaduna City, where a thorough UNDP-financed study of waste disposal will be
completed in the second half of 1979 (para. 1.08).



-7-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      Kaduna, the capital of Kaduna State and site of the proposed
project, is a relatively modern city located on the Kaduna River, some
600 km northeast of Lagos, Nigeria's federal capital. (See Map 13938.)
2.02      The Kaduna urban area does not have official boundaries.  His-
torically, city development has concentrated within the Capital Territory,
an administrative division (one of fourteen in the state), extending from
the airport in the north to the industrial area on the south side of the
river. (See Map 13939.) This Capital Territory covers about 127 sq. km and
is surrounded by the local government divisions of Zaria on the north and
Kachia on the south. For practical purposes the Kaduna urban area now extends
considerably beyond the Capital Territory boundary, with development tending
to follow the highways. The Kaduna urban area, served by the Kaduna District
section of KSWB, effectively consists of the contiguous urban area centered on
the Kaduna Capital Territory.
2.03      A comprehensive town plan prepared for Kaduna in 1967 by a British
consultant, Max Lock and Partners, has guided recent developments but not
all proposals have been fully implemented. The entity currently responsible
for land use planning is the Kaduna Capital Development Board (KCDB) which
was created by government edict in 1971. The planning area for which KCDB
is responsible was extended in 1975 from the Kaduna Capital Territory to the
circular area within a 40 km radius of Kaduna. However land use controls
are formally vested in the local government districts and the State Ministry
of Lands and Surveys, with KCDB only responsible for approving develop-
ments on the land in accordance with the town plans. Implementation of the
urban development plans has been somewhat haphazard, although improving.
A revised town plan is under preparation by KCDB and the Ministry of Lands and
Surveys.
Population and Regional Development Prospects
2.04      Three types of development have occurred in Kaduna.  From its
origin some sixty years ago the town has been a government capital as well as
a garrison town, with associated administrative functions. Within the past
twenty years Kaduna has also become a major industrial area. Its location and
history cause Kaduna to be, along with Kano 1/, one of the two dominant
centers in Northern Nigeria. However, it is estimated that, at present, only
15% of the state's population is urban. This means that Kaduna is likely to
be a focus of continuing growth as further urbanization occurs in Nigeria.
2.05      The population has grown more or less steadily from its founding,
but there is some uncertainty about its present size. Public estimates of
the present population prepared by the Kaduna State Ministry of Economic
Development indicate that Kaduna's 1977 population would have been 386,600
1/   Capital of Kano State.



- 8-
if growth since the 1963 census had been constant at 7% per year. Most local
officials however estimate that Kaduna's present population is considerably
higher. Engineering consultants working for UNDP in Kaduna (para. 1.08) have
prepared an independent estimate of the population at the end of 1977 on the
basis of land use analyses including recent air photos and a sample survey.
Their estimate, which has been carefully prepared and is acknowledged by
local officials to be realistic, suggests a total population of about 598,000
including some 70,000 personnel at military bases. Using this estimate,
population growth has been updated as follows:
Year                            1931        1952       1963        1977
Total Population (000)           10         39          150         598
Average Annual Growth Rate           6.7%        13.0%       10.0%
On the basis of available figures, the mission prepared a range of possible
future population forecasts for Kaduna, depicted on Chart 2-1.
2.06      The infrastructure to support industrialization and urban growth
in Kaduna is apparently as well developed as in any other city in Nigeria,
despite acknowledged deficiencies in housing, electricity, water and
sanitation. Future urban growth will obviously be affected by the extent
to which the basic services are provided, so that in turn the provision of
necessary infrastructure is likely to contribute to additional growth.
A factor which could influence the development of Kaduna in the longer term
is the proposed creation of a new federal capital near Abuja, some 170 km
to the south. However, with the planned schedule of this development no
effects are likely to be felt in Kaduna for several years.
2.07      The future spatial development of the town will depend primarily
on the future application of land use controls and on transportation develop-
ments. Most industries are located on the south side of the river, including
the new oil refinery, and this concentration is likely to persist. Growth to
the north is restricted by the airport and military camps. Residential growth
is likely to continue to infill the present urban area and overflow to the
west. When the several planned bridges over the Kaduna River are built there
could be significant expansion of the town to the south side of the river.
Residential Patterns
2.08      The central areas of Kaduna consist mostly of large plots accommo-
dating civil servants and other relatively high income residents. Accommoda-
tion for low income residents is generally laid out in the Kaduna Capital
Territory in plots of standard size, but outside the Capital Territory,
uncontrolled development has also taken place and plots are not organized.
The UNDP consultants estimate that some 64% of Kaduna's total population lives
in high density areas, averaging 350 people/ha. The plots are mostly compounds,
which contain separate buildings (almost all single story) housing several
households. A comprehensive housing survey was recently undertaken in the
high density areas of Kaduna. Although full results are not yet available one
sample of 36 compounds in four different high density areas found an average



- 9-
of 4.9 households and 17 persons per compound. This pattern of individual
compounds accommodating large numbers of low income residents is the pre-
dominant form of residential settlement in Kaduna.
Existing Water Supply Facilities and Standards of Service
2.09      The first public water supply was constructed in 1929 in Kaduna
South to serve the railway, workshops and the military bases as well as
domestic consumers. Water was pumped from the Kaduna River and provided
with classical treatment (coagulation, sedimentation, filtration and chlori-
nation) in the nearby plant before being pumped into a limited distribution
system, including a line serving the residential area north of the river.
The south waterwSrks (Map 13939) were expanded in stages to their present capa-
city of 31,800 m /day. This plant is in very poor condition today but cannot
be taken out of service because its output is continuously required due to
the current shortage in overall production capacity.
2.10      The Kaduna 3North waterworks began operating in 1964.  Its present
capacity is 45,500 m /day and the plant is currently being expanded by KSWB
under its Emergency Works Program (details in para. 2.21 and Annex 1).
2.11      The two treatment plants supply a transmission and distribution
system which includes almost 300 km of pipes. There are four separate
pressure zones in the distribution system of Kaduna north and one in Kaduna
south. Until the early 1970's KSWB's two treatment plants were able to meet
all demands from the distribution system, which probably served about 70% to
80% of the population. In recent years, however, both the domestic and the
industrial demands have accelerated and KSWB has not augmented the system to
keep pace with these demands. Consequently there have been increasing water
shortages in Kaduna in the past two to three years.
2.12      Present patterns of water consumption have not been thoroughly
analyzed, making it extremely difficult to discuss standards of service.
KSWB has records of some 9,000 private connections, all nominally metered,
but consumption data are deficient. Industrial consumers (primarily the
textile mills) apparently accounted for some 50% of water sold by KSWB in
1976/77. Almost all of these industries are located in Kaduna south but
KSWB's available water supply is so limited that one large textile mill pumps
most of its water directly from the river to meet its requirement. KSWB re-
cently authorized construction of another independent water supply, also from
the river, by the oil refinery currently being built because the public supply
cannot meet its demands. All consumers and KSWB suffer frequently from
interruptions in the electricity supplied by NEPA but significant early
improvements are anticipated in this situation under NEPA's current develop-
ment program.
2.13      The vast majority of KSWB's private connections are for domestic
consumers. In addition to the 9,000 registered connections (increasing by
some 700 per year) there are 95 public standpipes. There are also an esti-
mated 3000 additional connections to the system which have been made privately
and unofficially by residents.



- 10 -
2.14      The exact number of people served by KSWB is difficult to establish.
The UNDP study estimates that some 22% of the present population of 600,000
live on military bases, in civilian institutions or in low density housing
areas, which are generally occupied by higher income residents. A further 14%
live in medium density areas. Apart from frequent interruptions of supply,
this 36% of Kaduna's population appears to be relatively well served.
Operation and Maintenance
2.15      The standard of maintenance of plant, equipment and structures is
generally very poor. Treatment plant and equipment are improperly operated
and ill maintained.  Laboratory control is minimal and as a result, filters                 9
have to be washed with undue frequency. Several pumps are broken down and new
equipment has not been properly installed. The cause of this unsatisfactory
situation is largely inadequate supervision. The new management of KSWB has
already taken steps to provide more dynamic and effective operating and
maintenance personnel. As part of its Management and Operations Improvement
Plan (MOIP) KSWB will carry out a comprehensive rehabilitation of the existing
Kaduna North Water Works after consultation with the Bank regarding its pro-
posals.
Service to the Urban Poor
2.16      Reliable data are not available to identify the urban poverty group
in Kaduna. Generally speaking, the low income residents live in the high
density residential areas, which are estimated to accommodate some 64% of
Kaduna's total population (para. 2.08). These areas, including Kawo Sabon
Gari, Tudun Nupawa, Tudun Wada, Abakpa, Makera, Kakuri and Nassarawa (see Map
13939) receive poor service from KSWB. Many areas have no distribution
systems at all and others have only a skeletal network, with some private
connections and a few public standpipes. This situation encourages the
residents to independently arrange for private and unauthorized connec-
tions, frequently involving considerable lengths of small diameter pipes.
2.17      Distribution system deficiencies in the low income areas are due
to several factors:
(a) much residential growth has occurred in peripheral areas
and KSWB has been reluctant to expand its distribution
system in recent years since there were already supply
shortages. No major extensions of the water supply
system to high density areas have taken place since 1975,
despite the substantial growth which occurred in these areas;
(b) in some areas (e.g. Nassarawa) the lack of formally organized
plots makes it very difficult for KSWB to lay distribution
pipes; and
(c) the residents of poorly served areas have not been able
to enunciate their demands clearly or to bring political
pressure to support their requests for improved services.



- 11 -
2.18      In 1975 KSWB carried out a water usage survey which found that only
53% of the population living in high density areas were adequately served by
private connections or public standpipes. The situation has probably deter-
iorated since then, particularly in the newer areas. A 1978 pilot housing
survey in four of the older high density areas (Tudun Nupawa, Kano, Kakuri
and Abakpa) found that 72% of the residents had access to piped water through
private connections (of which about half were for compounds) or from public
standpipes. Residents unable to obtain water directly from the KSWB system
are forced to rely on shallow wells (most of which are polluted) or water
carriers who transport buckets of water from more distant parts of the dis-
tribution system, at relatively high prices. It is estimated that the number
of people who presently lack proper access to public water supply facilities
in Kaduna is of the order of 200,000, or roughly one third of the total
population. Most of these people are in the high density areas inhabited
predominately by low income residents.
2.19      On the average day in 1977-78 KSWB produced 68,100 m  of water.
With physical losses estimated at 20% of production (a reasonable estimate)
the per capita consumption for the total population would apparently average
91 liters daily. Excluding industrial consumers which use 50% of the avail-
able water, the actual average per capita consumption would amount to about
45 liters daily for the total population or somewhat more for those actually
served by KSWB. These relatively low water consumption figures are one
indication of low standards of service, as is the unreliability of the supply
caused by a shortage of production capacity and frequent breakdowns due mostly
to electric power failures.
2.20      Another deficiency concerns water quality.  In part this is due
to increasing pollution of the Kaduna River, so that in low flow seasons
the inflow at the downstream south works of KSWB is mostly wastewater and
the imperfections of the treatment process result in periodic contamination
which has, in the past, been confirmed by analysis of samples from the dis-
tribution system. Furthermore, the interruptions in supply cause pressure
reductions in the distribution system which permit the infiltration of con-
taminated surface and groundwater where pipes are damaged or leaking.
2.21      KSWB is already proceeding with an emergency works program which is
intended to provide additional supplies of water through the construction and
expansion of the following facilities:
(i)  additional treatment capacity of 50,900 m /day
at the existing treatment plants (45,500 at North
and 5,400 at South);
(ii)  additional pumping capacity at the north treatment
works and in the transmission and distribution
system; and
(iii)  installation of some 17 km of transmission and dis-
tribution lines plus an elevated storage reservoir.



- 12-
This emergency works program, estimated to cost a total of N 12.6 million
(US$19.4 million) in 1978 prices (excluding price contingencies), is described
in detail in Annex 1 and is expected to increase KSWB source capacity by
65% by 1981. The Bank has not been asked to assist in financing these works,
procurement for which commenced before appraisal and therefore these works
do not form part of the project. The civil engineering works for the emergency
program are being carried out by KSWB's own work force (work started in
October 1978). A special project management unit has been set up within KSWB
with exclusive responsibility for these works.
Future Water Demand
2.22      Since Kaduna's present population and water consumption patterns
are not known accurately, projections of future demand for services are
necessarily uncertain. Nevertheless it is clear that there is already a
large unsatisfied demand for water and that the continuing rapid growth
of Kaduna will require much more water in future.
2.23      Population forecasts for Kaduna prepared by the mission, based
on the present population estimates of the UNDP consultants, are shown on
Chart 2.1 and can be summarized as follows:
Population in Thousands
1980      1990       2000
High Projection                    836      2,109      4,511
Medium Projection                  762      1,473      2,233
Low Projection                     667        936      1,259
In the medium projection, on which subsequent demand estimates are based,
the population growth rate reduces gradually from 8.6% in 1978 to 7.0% in
1985 and eventually 3.0% in the year 2000. On this basis Kaduna's present
population of 600,000 would double by 1987 and triple by 1995.
2.24      Future water requirements have been estimated for various categories
(based on housing densities) of domestic consumers as follows: High - 270
liters per capita per day (lpcd), Medium - 125 lpcd, Low - 70 lpcd and Public
Standpipe users - 40 lpcd. Although actual consumption at present averages
only 45 lpcd (para 2.19) the calculated average demand is 111 lpcd (assuming
full supply to all). This is expected to increase to about 122 in 20 years
because of assumed improvements in the standard of living. Industrial demand,
prepared on the basis of projections by the UNDP consultants, is expected to
grow less rapidly than the population, accounting for roughly 30% of consump-
tion in future years (compared to an estimated 50% in the recent past). In
the near term, water sales by KSWB will be limited by available supplies and,
in the intermediate term, by weaknesses in the distribution system. Projec-
tions of future capacity, production and sales are shown on Chart 2.2 and
further explained in the project file. These projections indicate that KSWB
water sales in Kaduna should double within four years and double again five
years later. The Table below summarizes the Projected future average/peak
daily water demand and production/service capabilities in Kaduna.



- 13 -
KADUNA  URBEAN AREA  POPULATION_' PROJEECTI,OL`
AN4?lUAL  GROWTH          10'.
RATES                                                    CHART 2.1
4                                                         !
2%
-    X      -     =    =    =   a -5000000s .=   -
v-   i- !     -4'000,000
2000000
J         ~~~                                    I"'-AI         -2.0~c
4-~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
180001002
_ ~ ~       _ _ _ _ _ _   _ __ _ _ _     4
700 000
NO.-=                    .. ...
1.  POIPLA 10..'LN IN LAST oFriciAL!.SU  nF 19C3 wI,s 149 ,900.
2. PO!'ULA'IJC0'; 1'1'0.!!:CTIIO:'S BY APPRA>ISAL MIlSSION, '.ASF:) ON
ISTUVIF. 01 r T.TI0N IS IJ.1)!A OF 59S,2±                            0 IN
1977 1975  19 CO8  ISIN19192TS.
_ _ _ _ _ _YEA



- 14 -
, .                     w                             . . , _ ~- Chart 2.2
KSWB -KADUNA  DISTRICT SYSTEM
PROJECTED CAPACITY, RODUCTION       SALES                  JECT
* 75,000 as/DAYJ
450..
PRODUCTION  C PACITY
400 -          .ON PEAK DAY
400£ m E    PANSIONYP
,OOooo   / DAY   J     ..
350.
STAGE 3I EXPANBbON                    .
3  75,00 D meZ/OAY  J                           -
#4
>v_.  3. 0 '                                      _ _ _ _ _ _   ..
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
E250.   STAGE I EXPANSION                   : e                   ___
ATr  NOtRTW  rATME. 
o        PLAN1; 150000/Y .m.'A               'AVERAGE  DAILY  P ODUCTION
IN TWO  P1 A5ES
a00°                          - _  _  .                               _  _,_
*4
1.50                                           4AI  SALES-   .|  
EME.GrI.I I       .          AVERAGE  NAL    AE    
WORKS AT   Ill       ?     ,              
lNJRTN PLANT                                                                              4      
Inoo  445, 001,,1/f,_A' 4                  -.
100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
WORS  .A                        NOTE
.** .          PACKAGE  PLANT
AT KADNA SOUrT    Supplies will be constrained
50 _______        L+5.400 4'n/DAY       until new sources and distri-
bution facilities become
|   rEXISTING CAPACITY  (SOLrTr            operational.
|   PLUS NORTI WORKS)
I     1 OTAL 77300 rn'/DAY
1975           1986           1985           1990            1995



- 15 -
1980    1985      1990     1995
3
----------000 m /day----------
Demand Forecast
Average Daily                           133      185      256       326
Peak Daily                              153      213      294       375
Production/Service Capacity 1/          128      246      321       396
Total Population (000)                  762   1,096    1,473    1,872
% Population Served                      68 2/   85        87        90
1/   Assumes Kaduna South Works taken out of service by 1985.
2/   Due to inadequacies of the distribution system.
Existing Waste Disposal Systems and Standards of Service
2.25      The lateritic soils which predominate in Kaduna are basically
tight soils which make the disposal of wastewater difficult. In low density
residential areas, wastewater is disposed of by means of septic tanks which
require periodic emptying, not always practiced. Pit latrines and/or night-
soil collection have been used historically in the high density areas but
these also require routine maintenance and this service is usually deficient.
Plot layouts in such areas provide a "sanitary lane", a few feet wide between
the plots, to provide access for nightsoil collection, but such lanes are
in many cases little more than open, nearly stagnant ditches. Waterborne
sewerage in Kaduna is restricted to civilian and military institutions and
modern housing estates which have independent sewerage systems. Each of these
small schemes has its own sewage treatment plant but none of the 18 plants
inspected by the UNDP consultants was fully operational in 1977/78 and during
negotiations, the KSG indicated that pressure is to be brought to bear on the
owners to restore the operation of these plants to improve the effluents. All
effluents, whether treated or not eventually flow by open ditches and drains
through Kaduna into the river, mostly upstream of the intake to the south
water treatment plant.
2.26      Estimates of the population served by the various methods of
wastewater disposal were prepared in 1967 by town planners and in 1977 by
the UNDP consultants, with results as follows:



- 16 -
% of Population
System                             Served
1967       1977
Pit latrines                    33          41
Bucket latrines                 43          16
Septic tanks                     9          34
Piped sewerage                  15           9
100        100
During this ten-year period the population almost tripled, from about 200,000
to 600,000.  Bucket latrines were formerly emptied and the excreta eventually
disposed of in compost pits on the western edge of Kaduna, with property
owners paying annual charges which partially covered the costs of this ser-
vice. However, in recent years operation of this system has virtually ceased
to function. The reported substantial increase in the use of septic tanks
needs to be confirmed since this method of wastewater disposal is only effec-
tive in the low density areas of Kaduna; this increase may, in fact, reflect
growing reliance on even ineffective septic tanks, and pit latrines, because
no practical alternative exists. It is expected that a clearer picture
will emerge with the completion of the UNDP master plan studies.
2.27      Large water-using industries in Kaduna south, particularly the
textile factories and brewery, discharge their wastes without treatment
-and these flow in open drains through populated areas into the Kaduna River,
with an oxygen demand equivalent to the sewage of about 300,000 people. These
discharges, containing dyes, acids and alkalis, occasionally exceed the
natural flow in the Kaduna River and have reportedly caused massive fish
kills in the past.
2.28      The consequences of the poor standards of wastewater disposal
are obvious. Most drains carry noxious wastes which grossly pollute the
river as well as causing odor and other aesthetic problems throughout the
city. Farmers and gardeners use polluted water from the drains for irriga-
tion of crops which are eaten locally, with associated health hazards. The
high density residential areas, where drainage is frequently poor, are con-
taminated by pools of filth and open drains full of excrement and other
domestic wastes.
2.29      Health statistics are sparse and cannot readily be used to document
the problems caused by poor sanitation. However according to the public
health authorities, mortality records for 1976 from the Kaduna General
Hospital indicate that the proportion of deaths caused by infective parasitic
disease is very high (34%), specially for children under four years old, whose
deaths account for 80% of mortality attributed to parasitic diseases. The low
standards of hygiene no doubt contribute to this situation.



- 17 -
Future Developments in Waste Disposal and Public Health
2.30      On completion of the UNDP financed Master Plan Studies, Kaduna
City will have a comprehensive planning document for the long-term develop-
ment of its present rudimentary and inadequate waste disposal services
(paras. 1.18 and 1.19). The implementation of this program will require
fairly lengthy preparation, securing of financing and the strengthening
of the implementing authority, KCDB. However, as part of the Master Plan
an Immediate Measures Program is being prepared by the consultants, proposing
limited, but manageable, high priority measures which appear to offer quick
and substantial benefits in eliminating or, at least, reducing public health
hazards in critical areas of Kaduna.  In the first instance, the KSG intends
to use its own resources to execute immediate measures concentrating on
improving drainage and solid waste disposal facilities as first priority. KSG
have agreed to keep the Bank informed on the progress of these and subsequent
works for improving sanitation in Kaduna city.
2.31      As noted in para. 2.29, low standards of hygiene presently contrib-
ute to a number of diseases, especially those of parasitic origin. Adequate
supplies of water, even when coupled with improved sanitation facilities,
may not greatly improve this situation unless the population is aware of the
personal measures to be taken to break the chain of infection. During nego-
tiations, KSG agreed to intensify its public health information campaign and
to execute a sanitation improvement program in Kaduna city.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      Nigeria originally sought Bank support for a water supply project
in Kaduna in 1974. Following two preparation missions in 1974, a project was
first appraised in April, 1975. Thereafter the Bank advised the Nigerian
authorities of basic conditions for the proposed loan and requested Govern-
ment confirmation that Bank assistance was still required. The management
of KSWB which was changed late in 1975 introduced such substantial changes
in the original project that the resulting major revisions in project docu-
mentation were not available until early in 1978, after several visits to
Kaduna by Bank staff. The present project was appraised in May/June, 1978.
The chronology of the project's development is outlined in the project file.
3.02      For many years KSWB has employed the engineering consultants Ward,
Ashcroft & Parkman (Nigeria) (WAP) to assist in project planning and design.
Following the appraisal of the original project in 1975, KSWB engaged addi-
tional consultants to address issues which had been raised during that
appraisal. A consortium of British consultants, MRT Consulting Engineering
Ltd., completed a master plan in 1978 for water supplies for the entire
Kaduna State, except for Kaduna itself and the region around Katsina in the
north where the situation had already been analyzed. An American firm, Louis
Berger Incorporated Nigeria (LBIN), was engaged in 1977 to examine water
quality problems caused for Kaduna by pollution of the Kaduna River (with
particular reference to the utilization of the Kaduna South Work) and to
analyze the existing water distribution system in Kaduna and prepare a master
plan for its enlargement.  Both activities were completed in December 1978.
Available reports from the various consultants are listed in the project
file.
3.03      The Bank engaged two sets of consultants to participate in the
appraisal of the project.  In April/May, 1978 Messrs. Lawrence Cutler and Ike
Enyobi and Ms. Ijeoma Ohaeri, all of Concept Ecodesign International, worked
in Kaduna to identify the urban poor and the features of their water supply.
In May/June 1978, two consultants, Mr. Brian Grover (Sanitary Engineer) and
Mr. David Hutchins (Financial Analyst) completed the appraisal. Finally,
Messrs. Jozsef Buky (Sanitary Engineer) and J.A.C. Guy Prenoveau (Deputy
Division Chief) of the Bank participated in the closing sessions of the
appraisal in Kaduna and in the preparation of this report.
Objectives
3.04      The first project objective is to improve and expand the water
supply system so that adequate supplies of safe water are provided. Ideally
the distribution system should be extended to serve 100% of the population
but this is not feasible within the short term, since a considerable backlog
of work must be done to satisfy suppressed demands (approximately one third



- 19 -
of the population is not currently served by KSWB) and major efforts are
required to cope with anticipated growth (the population will probably double
by 1987). To meet this objective in the project area, KSWB will have to:
(a)  eliminate by 1982, the production constraints causing
supply shortages;
(b)  extend the distribution system so that at least 85% of
the total population are served by the network by the end
of the physical execution of the project in 1983. This
will mean providing water to an estimated 800,000 people
by 1983 compared to roughly 400,000 people in 1977; and
(c)  improve KSWB operating standards during the project period
so that all connected consumers can expect to receive
uninterrupted supplies of safe water by end 1983 at the
latest.
3.05      Reported 1977/78 water sales in the project area represented only
54% of water produced and covered only some 9000 connections, there being an
estimated 3000 additional unregistered and unbilled connections. The aim
is to reduce unaccounted-for water to not more than 25% of production and to
identify and regularize at least 90% of the unregistered connections during
the project period. By the end of 1983 KSWB is projected to have a total of
more than 18,000 metered connections. The second objective is to improve
KSWB's operating and financial performance. A program of actions to be taken
by KSWB for this purpose has been included in a "Management and Operations
Improvement Plan" (MOIP) (see para 3.06 and Annex 6). Financial objectives are
detailed in Chapter 6.
Management and Operations Improvement Plan (MOIP)
3.06      In order for the project components listed in para 3.09 to be
effective and properly integrated, it is necessary for KSWB to take complemen-
tary action in various areas to improve its management and operations. These
several activities, of which some are covenanted and others are understandings
reached during negotiations, are fully listed in Annex 6. They include, among
other matters:
(i) KSWB taking specific actions to strengthen its management
and organization to ensure efficient project implementation,
operation of its facilities and improvement of the services
rendered to its consumers within Kaduna and the extension
of these principles to Zaria and Funtua and then in accor-
dance with a programme to be agreed for other districts;
(ii) KSWB submitting to the Bank, not later than July 1, 1979,
a comprehensive plan and implementation schedule for the
mechanical, electrical and structural rehabilitation of its
Kaduna North water works. The program to be implemented
by December 1980; and



- 20 -
(iii) KSG will actively support these actions and assist KSWB in
the coordination of these actions with other Authorities.
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
3.07      Groundwater resources are so limited that the only practical source
for expanding the existing supply is the Kaduna River which flows through the
town. The water is turbid and heavily polluted but the conventional treatment
process already used in two existing plants is appropriate.  For topographical
reasons all water supplied must be pumped. The question of how much elevated
storage is appropriate for a given level of supply reliability is discussed
in para  4.06.
3.08      KSWB's present policy is "private connections for all consumers",
implying relatively large per capita water usage, but this policy needs to be
reconsidered when the detailed design for the distribution system extensions
is prepared. If the standard of service is to be related to basic needs
and the standards of sanitation and wastewater disposal, increasing reliance on
public standpipes may be more appropriate in low income areas. Decisions on
these standards will be taken by KSWB, and reviewed by the Bank, in the light
of further analysis by the consultants working on the water supply system and
by those of KCDB working on the wastewater study. These studies will also
attempt to define design concepts to optimize the health benefits which should
accrue to the population from the project. KSWB will follow a policy to
provide water to meet the basic needs of all residents of the Kaduna area at
affordable prices as part of its MOIP (Annex 6).
Description of Project Components
3.09      The proposed project, the physical aspects of which are depicted on
Map 13939 and described in detail in the project file, consists of:
A.   Water Supply Facilities in Kaduna District
(i)  Raw water intake and pumping station on the Kaduna River
at the existing north water works.  Intake to de
constructed for ultimate capacity of 300,000 m /day,
with pumping facilities for 150,000 m3/day installed
initially;
3
(ii) Water treatment plant with capacity of 150,000 m /day
(50% to be commissioned in 1982 and the rest in 1983).
Land acquisiton and design to provide for ultimate
expansion to 300,000 m3/day;
(iii) About 37 km of transmission mains, ranging in diameter
from 400 mm to 1,000 mm;
(iv)  Three ground level and three elevated storage 3reser-
voirs with a total capacity of about 64,500 m ;



- 21 -
(v)  Raw and treated water pumping stations with a total
of 16 pump sets of varying capacity; and
(vi)  Reinforcement and expansion of the distribution
network. Preliminary estimates indicate that
some 300 km of pipelines may be required over the
project period and the final designs will be com-
pleted gradually as the project proceeds. In con-
junction with the distribution system expansion,
public standpipes will also be installed at about
300 m intervals in presently unserved areas.
B.   Operating Facilities
(i)  The construction of new headquarters offices in Kaduna
City;
(ii)  Construction and equipping of new central workshop and
meter repair facilities in Kaduna City;
(iii) Provision and installation of radio communication
facilities in the Kaduna district and between the
Kaduna headquarters and other regional offices of
KSWB; and
(iv) Expansion of the KSWB training facilities in Kaduna
City.
C.   Institutional Support and Technical Assistance
(i)  Design and construction supervision of the water supply
and operating facilities outlined above;
(ii)  Preparation of master plans for the water supply
sector throughout Kaduna State, the study of the pollu-
tion in the Kaduna River and the analysis of the Kaduna
distribution system (recommended by earlier Bank
missions and now virtually complete);
(iii) Provision of training and management advisors; and
(iv) Tariff study.
Cost Estimates
3.10      The total estimated cost of the project is N 102.8 million, includ-
ing taxes and duties (US$158.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of
N 59.6 million ($92 million), representing 58% of total costs. The summary
cost estimate is shown in Table 3.1.



KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
DESCRIPTION                             COST IN N(000)                    COST IN US$(000)             % OF
LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL         LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL         TOTAL
A.  SUPPLY OF PLANT AND METERIALS
1.  Treatment Plant (Supply & Erect.)         200       1860       2060          308       2864       3172          2
2.  Pumping Plant (Supply & Erect.)           200       1800       2000          308       2772       3080          2
3.  Transmission Pipes                        530       4790       5320          816       7377       8193          5
4.  Distribution Pipes (Prim. & Sec.)         468       4207       4675          721       6479       7200          5
5.  Distribution Pipes (Tertiary)             285       2565       2850          439       3950       4389          3
Subtotal Supply                       1683      15222     16905          2592     23442      26034         17
B.  CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION
1.  Treatment Works                          3940       5920       9860         6068       9117      15185          9
2.  Intake and Weir                           720       1080       1800         1109       1663       2772          2
3.  Transmission Pipelines                   1150       1730       2880         1771       2664       4435          3
4. Service Reservoirs:
(i) Kakuri, Rigyasa                       1840       2760       4600         2833       4250       7083          4
(ii) Barnawa, Mando Road, Kudenda          1360       2040       3400         2094       3141       5235          3
(iii) Polytechnic Road                       840       1260       2100         1294       1940       3234          2
5.  Pumping Station (Polytechnic)               70       100        170          108        154        262          -
6.  Distribution Pipelines (Prim. & Sec.) 1232          2593       3825         1897       3993       5890          4
7.  Distribution Pipelines (Tertiary)         665        285        950         1024        439       1463          1
8.  New Connections & Conversions             230        670        900          354       1033       1387          1
9.  Standpipes                                  60       180        240           92        277        369          -
Subtotal Civil Works                 12107      18618      30725        18644      28671     47315         29
C.  MISCELLANEOUS CONTRACTS
1.  KSWB Headquarters - Building             1200       1800       3000         1848       2772       4620          3
2.  KSWB Headquarters - Equipment               30       270        300           46        416        462          -
3.  Workshop & Meter Repair Facility          200        300        500          308        462        770          1
4.  O&M Equipment and Rehabilitation          130        420        550           200       647        847          1
5.  Communications Facilities                   30       270        300           46        416        462          -
6.  Training Facilities                        80        340        420          123        523        646          -
7.  Consulting Services                      1520       2250       3770         2341       3465       5806          4
Subtotal Miscellaneous                3190       5650       8840         4912       8701      13613          9
X
TOTAL BASE COSTS                            16980      39490      56470        26148      60814      86962         55      L
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 2223       4798       7021         3423       7389      10812           7     .
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   20944      15353      36297        32254      23644      55898         35
TAXES AND DUTIES                             3045        -         3045         4689        -         4689          3
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                         43192      59641    102833         66514      91847    158361         100
% OF TOTAL                                -          -          -             42         58        100         -
',



- 23 -
3.11      Project costs are based on preliminary designs.  As a result of
recent competitive bidding for the emergency works program (para. 2.21), KSWB
and their consultants had up to date (March 1978) information on unit prices
for most items of work proposed in the project. Cost estimates have been
updated to reflect end of 1978 unit prices. Prices resulting from competitive
bidding in accordance with World Bank procedures might actually be somewhat
lower if contractors anticipate less risk, but this possibility has not been
reflected in the cost estimates. Planning is generally well advanced and bids
have already been called for equipment for the new treatment plant, the most
critical element in the project since it provides the necessary additional
water and requires longer to construct than any other item. Detailed site
investigations still need to be carried out for all structures but as all
project components are essentially extensions of existing facilities in the
Kaduna urban area, the basic design information is reasonably reliable.
Although the distribution system has to be both substantially extended and
reinforced to meet the project objectives the, so far, incomplete planning of
these components made it necessary to prepare cost estimates on the basis of
preliminary layout plans only. The cost estimates for KSWB operating facili-
ties, consulting services and technical assistance are reasonable. Background
information and assumptions for all estimates are recorded in the project file.
3.12      The foreign exchange component of project costs was estimated
assuming that virtually all equipment supply contracts, apart from some
small diameter pipes which are manufactured in Nigeria, would be won by
foreign firms. Foreign but locally established contractors are expected to
win all civil works contracts. Nevertheless the foreign exchange component
of these works will still be high, estimated at 58%, because the contractors
likely to be involved will rely extensively on imported equipment and expa-
triate supervisory staff. KSWB, under "Approved Users Certificates" generally
enjoys significant reduction and, in some cases, exemption from applicable
import duties on goods imported for its operations. The relevant regulations
frequently change and based on the currently payable duties an allowance of
10% was made in the project cost estimates for duties and taxes on all directly
imported goods.
3.13      Allowance has also been made on each component for physical contin-
gencies ranging from 10% to 20%, depending on the probability of unforeseen
additional work. Overall physical contingencies amount to 12.4% of basic costs.
In addition, allowance has been made for price contingencies, at the rate of
8% p.a. and 20% p.a. respectively for foreign and local cost components. The
price contingencies for the foreign components are slightly higher than the
current Bank guideline figures to compensate for special conditions such as
the tendency (indicated by experience) of higher prices for goods shipped to
Nigeria due to special requirements such as import inspection and payment
conditions. Because of the extended duration of the project and the high
rates assumed for increases in local prices, the total allowance for price
increases effectively increases the estimated costs (expressed in December
1978 price levels) by 57%.



- 24 -
3.14      Project costs and price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that the exchange rate between the naira and the dollar will remain
fixed at 1.54 throughout the project period. This closely reflects the
experience of recent years during which time the exchange rate changed rela-
tively little despite a rate of domestic inflation in Nigeria which consistently
exceeded international inflation by a significant margin. The estimates of
project cost in dollar terms would be affected by a change in exchange rate
policy. If, for example, there were to be a 25% devaluation to compensate for
the system of import duties and export incentives currently in force and if
the exchange rate were to be adjusted thereafter to compensate fully for the
relatively high rate of domestic inflation projected for future years, then
the local component of project costs would be lower when expressed in dollar
terms. Under these assumptions the local component of project costs would
amount to $46.6 million compared with the $66.5 million estimated on the basis
of the present exchange rate. Total project cost would, therefore, amount to
only $138.4 million (compared with $158.4 million estimated on the basis of
the present exchange rate) and the share of total project cost financed by the
Bank loan would be 66 percent (compared with 58 percent estimated on the basis
of the present exchange rate.)
Project Financing
3.15      The proposed financing of the project would be as follows:
N million   US$ million  % of Total
Proposed IBRD loan                       59.6         92.0         58
Government (State)                       24.7         38.0         24
Internal Cash Generation                 18.5         28.4         18
Total                                   102.8        158.4        100
The proposed loan would cover 100% of the foreign exchange component of
project costs. KSG and KSWB would provide all additional financing or it
would be provided by the FGN in the event of their failure to do so. KSG
attaches very high priority to the project and agreement was reached during
negotiations that it would provide all necessary counterpart funds including
those required to meet any possible cost overruns.
Implementation
3.16      Tender documents for the equipment contract were issued to bidders
on September 1, 1978 following a detailed Bank review. The civil works
contract would start sometime in 1980 since the final designs will have to
follow the award of the equipment contract in 1979. Initial operation of
the first half of the treatment plant is scheduled for late 1982, with final
completion in 1984. The implementation schedule, Chart 3.1, shows the various
activities associated with the construction of all project components.



KADUNA  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT   -   IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE
ITEM          |YEAR ENDING MARCH 31    1    1979             1   980         1     1981         1    1982         1    1983          |   1984
CALENDAR YEAR             1978              1979              1980               19BI              1982               1983
TREATMENT PLANT EQUIPMENT           !       ____                   ;                          =,I. 2!
CIVIL WORKS FOR TREATMENT PLANT                                                                -t#7-717 : ____ F.- KL) L   m7'  r3,'    I   *  .
PU M PIN G   EQU IPM EN T          F                             ;                                                   .1LL:;;hUi.i i
INTAKE PUMP STATION a WEIR                          ZY,RAIIC 0.=ss                                                          E=]  t  !1ll'UW,f LL2iI |
TRANSMISSION MAINS                                                       nI., =T 7
RESERVOIRS AT KAKURI a RIGYASA                                                                     ___ _ r C_T_ __m_
ELEVATED STORAGE TANKS (3)              *-s I -T i            I      >     1                      .,
RESERVOIR AT POLYTECHNIC ROAD                      L                                                           lEff    
PUMP STATION AT POLYTECHNIC ROAD                                                ______                               ]DIfli 111
PRIMARY B SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION
DISTRIBUTiON NETWORKS                                    =T____ii_i__i5iiiiiiiii IMF=
NEW PRIVATE CONNECTIONS                                                                          ll l nmmflflhIiIflhI  JflIThIm HI  [mlln l HmmmlnnnIU Imm-[unmIirnlIml n m
CONVERSION OF UNREGISTERED CONNECTIONS                                    IiIlII DDIIII Immmm I[lUMImIM          ilammmm              mumUnun_
NEW STANDPIPES                                                                        m     mm              m1mmn  immmm  I1 mmum mmmumna
KSWB HEADQUARTERS BUILDING                   r-: -                     = t cn; 1.    ..ll mmm                                 IlEDml llm MUM=    ;Il.lifl
KSWB WORKSHOP a METER REPAIR FACILITY                           =.                 ;<Emi__ -¶nm=fflDm  =lm |
OPERATIONS a MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT               [____I4f_f_lWl_    mqu=   n..
COMMUNiCATIONS S'YSTEMS
TRAINING FACILITIES                                                                                         mmmm m  
LEGEND: V DRAFT TENDER DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE              I          PRELIMINARY DESIGN, PREPARE a REVIEW TENDER DOCUMENTS                      c)
O CONTRACT AWARD
|  INITIAL OPERATION                                     .ENDER PERIOD                                                              P
NOTE: MAINTENANCE PERIOD OF TWELVE                              I TENDER ANALYSIS a AWARD APPROVALS                                            t
MONTHS FOLLOWS INITIAL OPERATION                I      1  MANUFACTURE B DELIVER EOUIPMENT
OF MOST CONTRACTS.                                 "       CONSTRUCT / ERECT                                                          I_



- 26 -
3.17      The entire project will be implemented by KSWB, who have agreed to
engage engineering consultants for the design, procurement and construction
supervision of the various project components. WAP will be responsible for
the source works, (including treatment and pumping facilities), transmission
mains and storage reservoirs and concluded an agreement for this work with
KSWB in 1977. The current assignment of LBIN concerning the distribution
system involves the analysis of the existing system and the preparation of
a master plan but will not provide the detailed design and recommendations
needed for immediate implementation. The Bank was advised during negotia-
tions that LBIN had been appointed to prepare final designs, tender documents
and to supervise construction of the proposed distribution system expansions.
KSWB through its Project Manager will ensure that there is close and continu-
ing cooperation between the consultants responsible for these major elements
of the project (transmission and storage facilities and the distribution
system) since the final location and capacity of the transmission and storage
facilities will have a major impact on the distribution system design, and
vice versa.
3.18      KSWB and its distribution system designers should also liaise
closely with KCDB and their consultants who are concerned with waste water
disposal since construction priorities, standards of service and specific
location of the water supply networks and standpipes and proposals for waste
water disposal are interdependent. Measures to ensure this cooperation are
included in the MOIP (Annex 6).
3.19      KSWB requires further consulting assistance to finalize designs,
prepare tender documents and supervise construction of the operating facili-
ties included in the project (headquarters building, workshop, training
facilities and communications system). A competent firm of Nigerian archi-
tects has alreadly been appointed for the design of the proposed KSWB head-
quarters buildings. The agreement of terms of reference for consultants and
their acceptability to the Bank are included in the MOIP (Annex 6).
3.20      The cost estimates provide a sum of N 3.8 million (US$5.8 million),
before contingencies, to cover anticipated consulting services and technical
assistance. This sum, which represents about 6% of basic project cost (includ-
ing physical but not price contingencies), would pay for approximately 75
man-years of foreign expertise at current rates (about US$80,000/ year). The
scope and estimated associated cost of the various assignments were agreed
during negotiations.  A tentative allocation of this consulting assistance is
as follows:



- 27 -
Man-years
Design and Supervision of
Water Supply Facilities in Project                   42
Design and Supervision of
Operating Facilities in Project                       5
Kaduna State Master Plan, Kaduna Distribution
and Kaduna River Pollution Study                     10
Training Program (technical assistance
and scholarships)                                     5
Management Assistance                                 8
Miscellaneous Studies, including Tariffs              5
Total                                          75
3.21      In order to expedite new connections, contracts for distribu-
tion pipes should include the laying of service pipes to the boundaries
of all adjacent properties but KSWB would remain responsible for installing
the metered connections between the distribution system and the private
plumbing at each property and will have to make special efforts for the
conversion of many hundreds of existing unauthorized connections. KSWB
prepared a detailed program for this work and the necessary steps to signi-
ficantly increase its capacity for providing public and private water con-
nections would be part of the MOIP (Annex 6).
3.22      All land in Kaduna State is legally owned by the Government and
it is only the developments on the land which can be privately owned and
transferred. This makes it relatively simple for KSWB to obtain the land
necessary for the project structures, although compensation must be paid for
existing crops or buildings. Agreement was obtained from KSG and KSWB during
negotiations that all necessary land and right of way will be acquired by
December 31, 1979.
3.23      A particular problem exists with respect to pipeline locations.
The concept of rights of way or easements for such pipelines is apparently
unknown in Kaduna. KSWB has no difficulties in obtaining access for install-
ing the pipelines but subsequent maintenance of the lines becomes difficult
since developments can take place which may severely restrict access. There
are several examples where structures have been built directly on top of
distribution pipelines and the precise location of some of the older pipelines
is difficult, if not impossible, to identify. KSG gave the assurance that, in
future, KSWB will have the right to prevent developments over or alongside of
all pipelines and that appropriate legal and other arrangements will be made
to permit KSWB to have constant access for its staff. and equipment to operate
and maintain all pipelines. As part of the MOIP, KSWB will ensure that all
pipelines are suitably marked on the ground and recorded on maps (Annex 6).



- 28 -
Kaduna South Waterworks
3.24      The project facilities should provide sufficient additional water
to meet the anticipated requirements of Kaduna until about 1989 (see Chart
2.2) providing that the Kaduna South plant continues to operate at its
present capacity. Until the new plant begins to operate, the old plant at
Kaduna South will be required to operate continuously. Thereafter this
plant can be taken out of service on a care and maintenance basis with
Kaduna being supplied entirely by the Kaduna North plants (old and new).
The Kaduna South plant is in poor condition now and it will not be easy to
prevent its further deterioration in the next few years. Its location down-
stream from most of Kaduna causes it to receive polluted water at all times,
and particularly during low flow periods. This situation is likely to further
deteriorate in the near term, due to increasing abstractions upstream (in-
cluding the new oil refinery) and increasing pollution entering the river.
The magnitude of the river pollution is currently under study by KSWB's
consultants (LBIN) and the UNDP consultants working for KCDB should also
provide further information on probable future pollution loads by the time
their study is completed in 1979. In the future it may be appropriate to
abandon the Kaduna South plant completely, but in this case Kaduna's entire
water supply system would have to be considerably modified, including the
early further expansion of the Kaduna North plant. Alternatively it might
be appropriate to completely overhaul the Kaduna South plant, with possibly
the construction of a new intake upstream (since much pollution enters the
Kaduna River from a creek directly opposite the present intake). A third
option would be to create an independent industrial water supply system
of reduced quality standards to serve the textile mills and other industries
requiring large quantities of process water in Kaduna South using the exist-
ing water treatment plant suitably renovated. This matter merits detailed
analysis and KSWB will, with the help of consultants if necessary, by mid-1980
carry out a comprehensive study and make recommendations concerning the future
utilization of the Kaduna South treatment plant as part of the MOIP (Annex 6).
Water Resources Aspects
3.25      The Kaduna River has a catchment area of 18,410 km2 upstream of
Kaduna and an average annual flow of 166 m3/second. There are no reservoirs
on the main stem of the river and flows are very seasonal, with the lowest
flows occurring between January and April.  Flow data have been recorded
since 1947, with some gaps in the records. In 1966 engineering consultants
(Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners U.K.) recommended that a storage
reservoir should be built on the river system upstream of Kaduna which could
release water into the Kaduna River during low flow periods and prevent the
possibility of water shortage for the town's water supply system and to
provide irrigation water for 4,000 acres of land.
3.26      The Kangimi reservoir, some 15 km upstream of Kaduna, was completed
in 1978 and the reservoir is operated by KSWB. The Kaduna State Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources provided some of the funds for building the
Kangimi dam and has engaged local consultants (Enplan Group) to plan the irri-
gation facilities. Funds are budgeted in the present 1975-80 plan to construct



- 29 -
the first stage of the irrigation scheme (tentatively 2,000 acres, or half
the total scheme) which would require some 11,600 m3 of water annually from
the Kangimi Reservoir.
3.27      RevIsed urban water demand estimates prepared by the mission
(Chart 2.2) indicate that KSWB will have to pump much greater quantities
of water from the Kaduna River in the next decade than was anticipated.3
Additional abstractions are a so planned by  the oil refinery (15,000 m /day
initially, rising to 23,000 m /day) and KSWB has expressed its intention to
maintain river flows of at least 45,000 m3/day below abstraction points in
Kaduna for environmental reason. In these circumstances, it appears question-
able whether the Kaduna River has sufficient water in periods of extremely low
flow to meet the various demands. This topic was reviewed in a brief study
prepared in June, 1978 by WAP at the mission's request. The study concluded
that low flow in the Kaduna River with a probability of occurring once in 25
years would provide water to suffice until about 1995 under present projec-
tions (Chart 2.2), provided that the Kangimi Reservoir is operated to augment
low flows and that only the proposed first stage of the Kangimi irrigation
scheme (2,000 acres) is built. In any event additional storage will eventually
be needed if Kaduna continues to rely on the Kaduna River as the sole source
for its long-term water requirements.
3.28      Because the unregulated flows in the Kaduna River become quite
low in dry years, Kaduna's water supply will be increasingly vulnerable to
extended shortages of supply if upstream abstractions are not carefully
controlled and the Kangimi reservoir operated judiciously. However these
matters can be better analyzed in later years when more and better data are
available on abstractions from the river and on natural flows under drought
conditions in the Kaduna aid Kangimi Rivers.  KSWB's current plans to ab-
stract a further 300,000 m /day from the Kaduna River (including 150,000 m3/
day for the project facilities have been approved by the Niger River Basin
Development Authority (para. 1.03). During negotiations, KSG and KSWB
agreed that:
(a)  Plans for irrigation at Kangimi will be reviewed 9
order to ensure that the minimum flow of 350,000 m /day
will be maintained upstream of the Kaduna North Water
Works;
(b)  KSWB will continue to be responsible for the operation
of the Kangimi reservoir;
(c)  No further abstractions will be permitted from the
Kaduna River basin upstream of Kaduna without the
consent of KSWB; and
(d)  Water availability from the Kaduna River system in
low flow periods will be evaluated not less than
once in every three years in reports prepared by
KSWB and circulated by KSG for review by interested
parties, commencing in 1984.



- 30 -
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.29      The construction of the project will have no significant environ-
mental impact apart from the minor and temporary disruptions caused by build-
ing a few structures in Kaduna and the installation of pipelines.
3.30      Operation of the project facilities will result in substantial
increase in the quantity of water supplied to the people and industries of
Kaduna and the corresponding increase of waste water would aggrevate the
already poor waste disposal facilities. However, the UNDP-financed Sewerage
and Drainage Master Plan soon to be completed, provides for the long
(and short) term development of waste disposal in Kaduna.  The Immediate Mea-
sures Program of the plan will be implemented by KSG (para 2.31).
3.31      The provision of safe water to hundreds of thousands of Kaduna
residents, mostly in the low income areas, should permit substantial improve-
ments in personal sanitation and hygiene, with obvious health benefits. These
improvements could be expedited if the public were better informed of how
water supplies can be utilized for their personal benefit.  The Ministry of
Health already has a health education unit whose activities could be expanded
for this purpose.  During negotiations guidelines for establishing an effec-
tive public health campaign were discussed with KSG and informal assurances
were obtained from KSG that the public health information campaign will be
intensified along the lines indicated in these guidelines to maximize the bene-
fits of the water supply improvements in Kaduna.
Procurement
3.32      All contracts above value of US$100,000 for the supply and erection
of plant and the supply of materials will be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts below
US$100,000, or equivalent, for equipment contracts and US$200,000, or equiva-
lent, for civil works will be let under local procedures with documents not
requiring Bank preview. Major supply contracts with a total value of about
US$33 million will probably be awarded to foreign suppliers while local
suppliers are likely to win contracts totaling about US$10 million for small
diameter pipes and other equipment. The value of major civil works, with
contracts above the value of US$1,000,000 is about US$93 million. These
contracts will be awarded through international competitive bidding and are
likely to be won by foreign but locally established contractors.  Nigerian
contractors under local bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank would be
competing for contracts below US$1,000,000 for building and pipelaying works
with an aggregate value of US$5.5 million.  KSWB would carry out works by
force account worth about US$3.3 million.
3.33      Nigerian law requires that foreign contractors operating in Nigeria
be incorporated in the country with local ownership of 60%. Several large
foreign contractors are already established on this basis in Nigeria and will
be strong competitors for the project. However, the magnitude of a number of
the contracts to be let is likely to attract additional foreign competition.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal Government of



- 31 -
Nigeria that foreign contractors awarded contracts under the project will, on
application, be granted exemption from these incorporation requirements.
Effective January 1, 1979 Federal Government regulations also require that all
goods to be imported into Nigeria be inspected at the port of embarkation by
the Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A. (SGS) Geneva, Switzerland. The
quality and quantity of the goods is to be certified prior to shipment to
Nigeria.
3.34      It is unlikely that any contracts will be signed before the pro-
posed loan is approved, since the earliest contract for the treatment plant
equipment will probably not be signed before June, 1979. Draft tender docu-
ments for this contract were provided for Bank review during the appraisal
mission. However, the project does include ongoing consulting assignments
which the Bank encouraged during the initial appraisal. It is proposed
that the foreign exchange costs of these services be financed retroactively
with the proceeds from the proposed Loan. The total estimated amount is
about $1.0 million covering consultancy work from November 15, 1977 to July 1,
1979.
Disbursements
3.35      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
Amount              Percentage of
Category               (US$ million)        Expenditure Financed
I  Contracts for the supply          35.2            100% of foreign expenditure
of plant, equipment and                          of plant and materials or
materials                                        90% of local expendi-
tures for items pur-
chased locally.
II  Civil works contracts             45.1            60% of total expenditures
III  Consulting services and            4.3            100% of foreign
technical assistance                             expenditures
IV  Unallocated                        7 4
92.0
Disbursements will be fully documented except for work done by force account
under Category II which would be against certified statements of expenditures
documentation of which would be held by KSWB for review by Bank supervision
missions.



- 32 -
The estimated schedule of disbursements is provided in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                  Loan Disbursements (US$ million)
Quarter                Cumulative
FY 1980
Sept. 30, 1979                       1.0                     1.0
Dec. 31, 1979                        1.5                     2.5
March 31, 1980                       2.0                     4.5
June 30, 1980                        2.7                     7.2
FY 1981
Sept. 30, 1980                      3.0                     10.2
Dec. 31, 1980                        5.0                    15.2
March 31, 1981                       5.0                    20.2
June 30, 1981                        6.0                    26.2
FY 1982
Sept. 30, 1981                      7.5                     33.7
Dec. 31, 1981                        7.5                    41.2
March 31, 1982                       7.8                    49.0
June 30, 1982                       7.5                     56.5
FY 1983
Sept. 30, 1982                      7.0                     63.5
Dec. 31, 1982                       6.0                     69.5
March 31, 1983                      6.0                     75.5
June 30, 1983                       4.1                     79.6
FY 1984
Sept. 30, 1983                      4.0                    83.6
Dec. 31, 1983                       4.0                     87.6
March 31, 1984                      3.0                     90.6
June 30, 1984                       0.5                     91.1
FY 1985
Sept. 30, 1984                      0.4                    91.5
Dec. 31, 1984                       0.3                    91.8
March 31, 1985                      0.2                    92.0
June 30, 1985



- 33 -
IV. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
4.01      The principal benefits of the project will be the expanded cover-
age and improved quality of service provided by the Kaduna District water
supply system. Expansion of the distribution network, including a two-fold
increase in the total length of piping in the system, will permit KSWB to
serve 400,000 additional people (including large numbers of new migrants)
as well as new industries and institutions by the end of the project period.
The production capacity of the system will more than double over the project
period, ensuring sufficient quantities of water until about 1990. Moreover,
operational standards are expected to improve substantially so that all
consumers may anticipate an uninterrupted supply of safe water.
4.02      KSWB would give special attention to the basic water requirements
of the urban poor as the distribution network is extended. Pipeline construc-
tion in areas which are at present critically short of water would be given
priority. Public standpipes will be installed at convenient intervals (about
300 m) in low income areas where house connections are not yet appropriate.
Final design details of the distribution system will be coordinated with
ongoing planning for wastewater disposal in order to realize maximum improve-
ments in sanitation and hygiene from the project.
4.03      Employment prospects in Kaduna will be enhanced by the project.
At the peak of construction activity, the project construction force will
comprise approximately 1,200 workers. KSWB will require about 150 addi-
tional permanent employees to operate and maintain its expanded system.
More importantly, the provision of dependable water supplies to present
and future industries will assist in creating long-term employment opportu-
nities in the city.
Least Cost Solution
4.04      Groundwater in the quantities required is not available within
the Kaduna region, so there is no alternative to the use of the Kaduna River
as the source for the city's water supply.  Water in the Kaduna River is
heavily pollut&ed and, because of the nature of the catchment area, naturally
turbid.  Treatient is required, and the classical process that has been used
in Kaduna for the past fifty years remains appropriate.
4.05      Deci-Rion to locate the new treatment plant beside the existing
one at Kaduda North followed careful evaluation by WAP of alternative
sites. A possible location in central Kaduna near the old Kaduna South plant
was rejected because of poor water quality at this point in the river and
scarcity of land on which to build. The consultant also examined the possibil-
ity of locating the new treatment plant by the reservoir at Kangimi, upstream
of all pollution originating at Kaduna. The Kangimi site was advantageous
in that the reservoir could be used to settle some of the turbidity before
treatment, resulting in lower operating costs. The Kangimi alternative



- 34 -
was rejected because of its excessive capital requirements, including a very
large diameter transmission line to Kaduna; the present discounted value of
the capital costs of this alternative was estimated to be N 11.3 million
(US$18 million), or 36% higher than the Kaduna North solution. The present
value of all costs of the Kangimi alternative exceed the Kaduna North solution
by about N 4.0 million (US$6.4 million).
4.06      For topographic reasons all of Kaduna's water must be pumped to
elevated reservoirs for distribution at high capital and recurrent costs.
The Kaduia system involves a number of such storage tanks and three new ones
(2,500 m each) are included in the project. It would be slightly cheaper
to maintain pressure without elevated storage tanks by means of a sophisti-
cated pumping and control system. However, the greater reliability and
simpler pump operation and maintenance required by the elevated storage
systems were deemed essential in Kaduna's circumstances. The proposed total
capacity for treated water storage (to cover peak hour demand and security
against breakdown) is 12 hours of average production. This is considered
an adequate margin and, in any case, the large expenditures required to pro-
vide additional storage capacity could not be justified.
4.07      Tender documents for the transmission and distribution systems will
call for alternative bids for various types of pipe materials as well as for
supply and/or construct type of tenders to ensure the most economical solu-
tion for these works.
4.08      The project has been planned to provide minimum acceptable standards
of service at the lowest possible cost. Nevertheless, the resulting invest-
ment costs are relatively high on a per capita basis due mainly to the fol-
lowing factors:
(i) high unit construction costs due to Nigeria's eco-
nomic situation generally, aggravated by Kaduna's
distance from the ports through which all imported
materials arrive; and
(ii)  the relatively large scale of the proposed facilities
which are now required due to:
(a)  inadequate investment in water supply facilities
in recent years, resulting in large unsatisfied
demand for water at present; and
(b) a projected high rate of increase in water demand
owing to rapid urbanization and industrialization
of Kaduna.
Pricing Considerations
4.09      The following water tariffs are in effect in Kaduna:



- 35 -
(i)  industrial and commercial consumers:  N 0.31/mr3
(US$1.80/1,000 US gallons);
(ii)  all other consumers (except civil servants):  N 0.17/mr3
(US$0.96/1,000 US gallons);
(iii) civil servants in government housing: flat monthly rates
of N 4.50 (US$6.93) for senior staff and N 3.0 (US$4.62)
for junior staff;
(iv)  water provided through standpipes is free to the consumer,
but the standpipes are metered and KSWB is reimbursed by
KSG at the normal domestic rate.
A list of comparative water costs effective in other West African countries
is shown in Annex 7.
4.10      The long run marginal 3cost (average incremental cost) of water in
Kaduna is estimated at N 0.22/m , assuming a 10% opportunity cost of capital
and a 10% time preference rate for water consumption. Details of this cal-
culation are provided in the project file. Thus existing tariff levels
already reflect the long run marginal cost.
4.11      Inadequate coverage by the distribution system (to some extent a
deliberate policy of KSWB due to shortage of production capacity), supply
interruptions and large connection charges are the principal reasons that
many of Kaduna's low income residents lack access to piped water supplies
at present. The mission could find no evidence that the current level of
KSWB's water tariffs discourages minimum levels of consumption. The high
cost of alternative supplies, including privately constructed, unregistered
connections and reliance on water carriers (at about ten times the metered
domestic tariff), exceeds KSWB's charges and is a cause of hardship to the
poorest re.idents of Kaduna.
4.12      Appropriate water tariffs consistent with the criteria outlined
above cannot be determined without further study. Draft terms of reference
for such a study were prepared with Bank assistance. During negotiations,
KSWB agreed to engage consultants under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank by October 1, 1979, and complete the study within six months. On
completion of the study KSG and KSWB, following discussions with the Bank,
will restructure tariffs in accordance with the agreed recommendation of the
study by October 1, 1980. Pending completion of the full study, tariff
increases would be warranted on financial grounds (paras. 6.09 and 6.10).
Internal Economic Rate of Return
4.13      Since it is impractical to distinguish water production resulting
from the project from that produced by other components of KSWB's ongoing
and proposed system expansions the internal economic rate of return (IERR)



- 36 -
was calculated for the total investment program (excluding duties and taxes)
to be carried out during the years 1978 to 1994. Details of the calculation
appear in the project file. Benefits have been assessed as the value of water
consumption calculated on present tariffs. With costs (capital and recurrent)
valued at present market prices and foreign exchange valued at the official
rate of N 1.00 = US$1.54 the resulting IERR is 9.5%. The Bank is currently
reviewing the appropriate shadow exchange rate for economic analysis of
projects in Nigeria. For illustrative purposes, if the project were analyzed
with a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00:US$1.00 (rather than the official rate
of N 1.00:US$1.54 used above) the economic rate of return would go from 9.5%
to 6%.
4.14      The valuation of benefits is somewhat conservative because water
supplies are insufficient to satisfy demands at the current level of tariffs,
indicating that the current demand price (a more appropriate price for valuing
consumption) is significantly higher than present tariffs.
4.15      The calculated IERR does not depend critically on the projected
growth of demand for water in Kaduna. If demand is assumed to grow from
1982 onward at only one-half of the expected rate, the IERR is 8.5% pro-
vided that capital expenditures beyond 1983 are rescheduled appropriately.
4.16      The external economies which accrue from increased water consump-
tion, such as improved community health and hygiene, cannot be measured and
have not been included in the valuation of benefits.
Impact on the Urban Poverty Group
4.17      The impact of the project on the urban poor of Kaduna can be out-
lined only in qualitative terms as quantification is not possible due to
lack of data. The government has no data on the poverty group. Nigerian
consultants engaged by the Bank visited the project area to assess the situa-
tion of the urban poor, but were unable to fully define the poverty group.
The UNDP consultants estimate that 64% of Kaduna's residents live in high
density generally low income areas. Most of Kaduna's poorest residents, and
perhaps 40 to 50% of the population, live in four areas of the city: Kawo,
Abakpa, Tudun Wada and Kakuri-Makera and these areas are generally the most
poorly served by the existing water supply system (see Map 13939).
4.18      The project will substantially improve the supply of water to the
poverty group through the massive expansion of the distribution network and
the concurrent and essential augmentation of source facilities. An esti-
mated 400,000 additional consumers will have access to piped water supplies
in the near term as a result of the project. It is reasonable to estimate
that probably as many as 75% of these new consumers will be in the low income
group. Therefore, together with the poor presently residing in Kaduna (and
without service), nearly 500,000 low income residents would be provided with
reasonable access to water by the end of the project period.



- 37 -
4.19      The proposed project includes improvement of all aspects of KSWB's
water supply system. The distribution networks (including mains, connections
and standpipes) account for an estimated 30% of basic project costs (before
consulting services and contingencies), of which about half will serve the
areas inhabited by the poverty group. Thus roughly 15% of total project
costs will go directly toward the improvement of services to the poverty
group. In addition, this group will benefit from investments in production,
transmission, and storage facilities and more efficient system operation and
maintenance.
4.20      Water supplies for the poverty group will be affordable for several
reasons:
(a) The residential pattern in low income areas consists
almost exclusively of independent compounds containing
several buildings which provide shelter for several
households. A single tap in each compound (the most
common standard of service) would provide water suffi-
cient for basic needs at a low per capita cost;
(b) KSWB's present policy of charging consumers the full
cost for new connections would be revised so that
connection costs (up to property boundaries) includ-
ing the cost of a meter are regarded as system capital
costs and amortized accordingly. The only initial cash
costs to be borne by consumers are the costs of plumbing
within the property and a minor charge for KSWB to com-
plete the connections and turn on the water;
(c) Public standpipes will be installed by KSWB in areas
where house connections are, as yet, inappropriate
and water supplied from standpipes will be free to
the consumer; and
(d) KSWB will ensure when revising tariffs that water
required to meet basic domestic needs would be priced
so as to be affordable by low income consumers.



- 38 -
V. THE BENEFICIARY
Lending Arrangements
5.01      In accordance with current arrangements the Federal Government of
Nigeria would be the Borrower and the loan would be onlent first to the Kaduna
State Government (KSG) and ultimately to KSWB, all on Bank terms. Accordingly,
the Bank would enter into a loan agreement with the Federal Government, a
special agreement with KSG and a project agreement with KSWB.
Organization                                                                                e
5.02      KSWB was created in 1971 to be responsible for the State's water
supplies, when the State was known as North Central State. The 1971 edict,
which provides KSWB's legal standing, has been provided to the Bank. On the
basis of the 1971 edict, no changes would be necessary in KSWB's legal cha-
racter to permit it to receive Bank funds or to implement the project in
accordance with Bank requirements.
5.03      The organizational structure of KSWB was changed, with significant
improvements, in October 1978. The reorganization was essentially based on
the recommendation of the consultants (MRT) who prepared the state-wide water
supply master plan (para 1.16). The new organization was reviewed by a Bank
post appraisal mission in November 1978 and agreed in general. The new
organization in shown on chart 5.1. Policies proposed by management are
reviewed by a sixteen-member recently reconstituted Board which generally
meets quarterly. Three board members represent KGS Ministries (Works and
Housing, Agriculture and the Office of the Secretary to the Military Admin-
istrator one represents the Army, and three are Local Government Representa-
tives. The remaining nine members are from the private sector (8) and the
General Manager of KSWB. Unfortunately, at present, there is no one at the
policy making level of KSWB who is specifically concerned with urban growth
in the capital of Kaduna (as is KCDB) or with the questions of hygiene and
sanitation which are so closely linked to water supply. KSG agreed during
negotiations to appoint a KCDB representative to the Board of KSWB by
December 31, 1979, and similarly a KSWB representative on to the KCDB Board.
5.04      All KSWB Board members and executives are appointed by Kaduna State's
Military Administrator, the Head of KSG.  KSWB management generally operates
autonomously on routine matters but is subject to financial control by KSG
requiring approval of: budget, water tariffs, and procurement on all con-
tracts worth more than N 500,000 ($770,000).
5.05      KSWB operations outside the capital area have been expanding in
recent years and will continue to do so as increasing emphasis is placed on
water supplies for the smaller urban and rural areas. The present organiza-
tion caters for this expansion through the eight Districts Managers (effec-
tively one for each urban supply including Kaduna) plus a separate unit for
all rural water supplies under the Operations Department. A re-organization
of these Districts into four regions is recommended in the state water supply



KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD DIRECTORS
I
GENERAL MANAGER
DISTRICTMANAGERS      |                   .       -AU=                                3
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT                                         I                                                       SECRETAY
| (ADMINISTRATION)
DEPUTY CHIEF ACCOUNTANT    DEPUTY CHIEF ACCOUNTANT    DEPUTY CHIEF ACCOUNTAN                   PRINCI                                         ADMINISTRATIVE           
(STORE)                   (FINANCEI                                                WATER E                                OFFICER        OFFICER
1~~~~~~~~~
DEPUTY CHI F ENGINEER                               DEPUTY CHI F ENGINEER                                       DEPUTY CHIErF ENGINEER
(DESIGN &, CONSTRUCTION I                           (MECHANICAL/ELECTRICAL)                                   (OPERATION & MAINTENANCE)
AASSISTANT                         SITNPRINCIPAL                                 PRINCIPAL              ASSISTANT               PRINCIPAL                                          l
C               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CHIEF ENGINEER                    CHIE ENINE               MECHANICAL             ELECTRIA              CHIEF ENGINEER         WAER ENGINEER           PRINCIPAL CHEMIST 
(DESIGN)                      (CONSTRUCIN               ENGINEER                ENGINEE                 (URBAN)                 (RRALI
I   PRINCIFAL   l l   PRINCIPAL       PRINCIPAL          PRINCIPAL                                    PRINCIPAL              PRINCIPAL
WATER ENGINEER    WATER ENGINEER  LWATER ENGINEER]   WATER ENGINEER                                   WATER ENGINEER         WATER ENGINEER
.  (DESIGN)    (INVESTIGATION)        (KADUNA)          OUTSTATIONS)                           (KADUNA SOUTHZONE)          (NORTH ZONE)
Wo,Id Bank - 19841



- 40 -
Master Plan (para. 1.16) to provide a more centralized and efficient manage-
ment. This is still under consideration by KSWB but it may be some time
before the present management is strong enough to undertake such a major
exercise and before sufficient qualified staff are recruited to fill the
proposed regional management positions. KSWB will consult the Bank prior
to any proposed changes in its organizational structure.
5.06      Although the system maintenance and standard of service in Kaduna
are poor (paras. 2.09-2.21), they are much better than in the eight other
Districts where systematic maintenance is non-existent; there are no operating
or financial records and there is little effort to recover the cost of water
supplied. Assurances were obtained that, under the Management and Operations
Improvement Plan (para. 3.06 and Annex 6), KSWB will introduce the same
measures as those to be applied in Kaduna to other districts (para. 6.09).
5.07      The lack of continuing and competent team of senior managers
has been the fundamental cause of KSWB's problems in recent years. System
planning has been weak; the quality of construction of new facilities (mostly
by force account) has been less than desirable; and the operation of the
facilities has been particularly poor without effective maintenance. In July
1978 a new expatriate General Manager was appointed. The new General Manager
appears to be a very competent engineer and has a long experience in Kaduna.
Already his presence has resulted in significant improvements in many areas
of the Board's operations in particular with the redeployment of his senior
staff to ensure more dynamic leadership in the key positions. The performance
of the new management will be closely monitored during supervision. In view
of the critical importance of an efficient management for the execution of the
project, it was agreed during negotiations, firstly with KSG, that any future
changes in the positions of General Manager or Secretary of KSWB and, secondly
with KSWB, that any future changes in its other Chief Officers (Chief
Accountant, Chief Engineer, Training Executive and Project Manager) or of
its organization would be made following consultation with the Bank. The
appointment of a Project Manager on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, directly responsible to the General Manager, is a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Loan. Another means of strengthening the management, which is
already being explored by KSG, is to obtain specialized management assistance
from utilities or consultants in more developed countries.
5.08      In mid-1978 the staff employed by KSWB totalled about 1,750.  Less
than 15% of this staff are in the Kaduna headquarters; the rest are in the
central depot and workshops in Kaduna (about 100) and in the nine districts
of KSWB. Some 300 staff were engaged for the routine operation and mainte-
nance of the Kaduna water supply. Approximately 60% of the staff are on
"daily paid" or temporary terms, all in low level positions but after 5 years
of satisfactory service these workers qualify for conversion to permanent
staff. The staffing situation of KSWB will be reviewed under the proposed
training program.
5.09      KSWB presently employs a total of 23 expatriates.  The great major-
ity of these are professional engineers and accountants who have been engaged
by KSWB on a contract basis following recruiting campaigns in Pakistan, Egypt,



- 41 -
India and Sri Lanka. These expatriates form the core of KSWB senior staff,
permitting the agency to function reasonably well but causing the normal
difficulties associated with reliance on expatriates (lack of continuity,
inefficiency due to frequent turnover, and salary differentials which can
cause discontent among national staff). Nevertheless KSG and KSWB appreciate
that expatriate staff will continue to be required in the short and medium
term, until competent and experienced Nigerian staff can be recruited and
trained to fill all positions. Vacancies at senior levels still exist and
the Board is planning another overseas recruiting mission for 1979.
Training
Kaduna State Facilities
5.10      Although there is a reasonable understanding and awareness of
KSWB's training needs among the senior management staff of the Board, the
only organized training available within the authority is a special course
for Assistant Works Superintendents (AWS). Since 1971, KSWB has annually
provided this one-year program of formal training, which leads to the award
of a Certificate in Water Supply Engineering to graduates who become, upon
successful completion of the course, Assistant Works Superintendents. At
present 20 of the available 40 course places are allocated to other state
water boards and more places are being requested. KSWB also has been re-
quested by KSG to provide training places on this course for the supervisory
staff of the 13 local government divisions of Kaduna State who are employed
on the development and supervision of minor water supplies and sanitation
works in the rural sub-sector.
5.11      KSWB therefore intends to increase the 1978-79 course intake to
80 trainees. This would seriously overstrain the present resources of the
KSWB training school, the full time staff of which, at the commencement of
the 1978-79 program, was reduced from four to two members, one of whom was
a recent recruit by KSWB. The training program depends heavily on supple-
mentary instructors being provided from existing senior KSWB staff, an
arrangement which does not work well as interruptions of the program, due
to operational or emergency commitments are frequent. The normal one-year
program is predominantly academic in content. It is designed to be followed
by a further one year of planned practical experience but this element,
even for KSWB graduates, is unstructured and amounts to no more than normal
supervisory duty.
National Sector Training Facilities
5.12      An important current development in Nigeria is the establishment
by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR), of a
national Water Resources Center to be constructed on a 30-acre site at Mando
Road, Kaduna. Initially the Center will provide a four-year course, primarily
for inservice candidates, leading to the award of the Nigerian National
Diploma in Water Resource Engineering. The proposed four-year curriculum will
cover water resource survey, planning and construction of works and, in
addition to one year of field work, will include a final year of elective



- 42 -
specialization in engineering hydrology, environmental health engineering,
irrigation, or erosion control. The aim will be to prepare students for
executive technical positions in the FMAWR, Water Boards/Corporations, and
River Basin Development Authorities. The potential long-term benefits of
this program to the water sector both nationally and to the English speaking
countries of the West African Region, could be considerable. The phase I
target is a capacity of 120 students and an initial annual output of 40
graduates.
5.13      The Water Resources Center would also provide a particularly suit-
able base for establishing a national manpower planning and development
cadre for the sector. The scope of this service would include assisting all
water agencies to develop training programs and resources within national
guidelines. The proposed parallel expansion and development of the KSWB
training program would permit the Water Resources Center to use this program as
a model in assisting other state water boards to implement similar programs.
5.14      A further recent development of importance to the Nigeria water
sector is the introduction by Ahmadu Bello University, Nigeria's largest
university, of a one-year postgraduate course leading to the award of MSc
in Water Resource Engineering. In the longer term the combined effects of
this program, the Water Resource Diploma Course and the improved KSWB AWS
program should substantially increase the Board's ability to meet its future
requirements for both professional and sub-professional staff.
External Vocational Training Facilities
5.15      Kaduna is reasonably well endowed with education and training re-
sources designed to meet local requirements for general purpose technical
and administrative skills. In addition to the Kaduna Polytechnic with a
capacity for 6,000 students, two trade training schools exist and the State
Staff Training Center provides a wider range of short courses for govern-
ment employees in administrative, financial and clerical job categories.
The Proposed KSWB Training Program
5.16      The training program to be designed and implemented under the
project would consist of the following elements:
(a)  A review of the utilization of KSWB's available
manpower of some 1,700 personnel, currently grouped
into 60 main occupational categories and identifying,
for training purposes, three manpower groups for which
the work content would be of a specialized, semi-
specialized or non-specialized nature;
(b)  A detailed assessment of the performance of tech-
nical, administrative and financial sub-professional
staff to determine their training needs based upon
a comparison between job requirements and observed
levels of competence;



- 43 -
(c) The appointment of a Training Executive Officer with
a sufficiently high position to assume responsibility
for the KSWB sub-professional training program includ-
ing the management of the proposed Training Unit;
(d) The identification of (initially) three potential
instructors to be selected from past graduates of
the AWS School who have reached the Higher or Senior
Superintendent grades and arrangements for their
intensive training in an overseas water sector
training organization, for subsequent employment
as additional full time training staff to the two
lecturers currently in post;
(e) The upgrading of the existing AWS School to form
a Training Unit for sub-professional staff, and
the construction and equipping of additional
training facilities to provide much needed off-the-
job training and demonstration resources for
supervisory and operator level.
(f)  The reorganization of the existing AWS training program
to a "sandwich" type course of three six-month elements,
the middle period of which would be devoted to super-
vised planned practical experience, during which time
the aptitude and requirement for more specialized train-
ing in various skills would be assessed, for implementa-
tion during the final phase of the course;
(g) The production of a series of training modules designed
to develop the appropriate skills and knowledge required
by individual sub-professional staff engaged in the
operations set out in sub-paragraph (e) above, together
with all necessary training aids, models and manuals; and
(h) The formulation and scheduling of an overall training
plan for specialized, semi-specialized and non-spe-
cialized sub-professional staff, incorporating where
appropriate, the local and/or national training and
technical education facilities which exist in both the
public and private sectors, and including the services
to be provided by the Federal Water Resources Center.
5.17.     The detailed design and implementation of the training program would
require the assistance of training consultants. The consultant's team would
be headed by a Training Adviser who, together with KSWB's management (including
the technical assistance personnel, para. 5.16) would develop and coordinate,
with priority accorded to the needs of Kaduna District: (a) KSWB's manpower
requirements, (b) the planning and implementation of the training program
including the redesign of the AWS training program; and (c) the development
and extension of the existing AWS training school and premises to become the



- 44 -
KSWB Training Unit for sub-professional staff. The total cost of the training
component is estimated to be US$646,000 (including 10% contingencies) of which
about US$523,000 would be foreign exchange to be financed under the proposed
loan. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 2.
5.18      The above proposals were discussed with KSWB during the appraisal
and were agreed in principle. During negotiations KSWB agreed to sign a
contract with consultants acceptable to the Bank to commence work on the
program and appoint a Training Executive not later than October 1, 1979.
Draft terms of reference for the consulting services (prepared with Bank
assistance) were discussed and finalized during negotiations.
Management Systems
5.19      KSWB has very few effective management systems, since management
itself has not been very effective. No annual report has ever been issued.
It is the considered opinion of the mission that recommendations for specific
improvements in various management systems would be inappropriate at this
time. The fundamental task is for KSWB to obtain competent managers and
possibly management assistance. The necessary systems to assist management
should then evolve as required and in light of the particular requirements of
KSWB.
Reporting and Monitoring
5.20      Specific reporting procedures which will keep KSWB management and
the Bank informed of progress on the project including meeting institutional
and financial objectives were discussed and agreed at negotiations. A
suggested format for these reports which was given to KSWB during the post
appraisal mission is included in the project file. Monitoring criteria to be
included in the reporting requirements are listed in Annex 3.



- 45 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance
6.01      When KSWB was established in 1971, it took over various assets and
liabilities from the Ministry of Works. However, records continued to be kept
on a single entry cash basis until 1973 when a rough estimate of KSWB's fixed
assets was made and a first balance sheet was prepared. Subsequently, the
independent audits of the accounts and financial statements for the years
1974 through 1977 recorded serious qualifications concerning the valuation
of fixed assets, the accuracy of current assets and liabilities and incon-
sistencies in accounting treatment.
6.02      Since 1977, accounting systems and procedures have improved,
controls have been strengthened and much needed senior qualified accountants
have been recruited at headquarters. In the Kaduna district, the weaknesses
noted by the external auditors have been remedied to some extent by the
institution of stores accounting and control procedures, periodic physical
check of inventories, tighter control of cashier's procedures, bank recon-
ciliations, and improved billing and collection procedures.
6.03      The condition in the other districts varies considerably.  The
largest operate closely to the standard of Kaduna, but the majority are
operated in a manner fairly remote from that of a commercial operation;
there are virtually no operating records, and no information is available on
water produced, sold, or unaccounted-for, or on sales billed and collected.
It is estimated for instance that while in 1978, all other districts combined
had more than twice the fixed assets of Kaduna district, they only had about
one-third of its revenues.
6.04      At this time, the Kaduna district--where the physical components of
the proposed project are to be implemented--appears to be the only one able
to carry out institutional improvements, without prior technical assistance.
Almost without exception, the performance of the other districts will need
considerable upgrading before they can be meaningfully controlled. For this
reason, the main thrust of the financial covenants is. directed at the Kaduna
district, and the financial projections are those of the Kaduna district.
Nevertheless, assurances were obtained that as part of the proposed Management
and Operations Improvement Plan, KSWB will bring the operations of other
districts to a position where the KSWB financial covenants, originally devised
for Kaduna District, will apply to them by later dates (para. 5.06).
6.05      KSWB's financial statements for fiscal year 1977 and 1978 appear
in Annexes 4.1 and 4.2. Because substantial adjustments affecting 1977 were
made in 1978, the figures for the two years have been combined for analysis
of the results. The combined revenues for 1977 and 1978 amounted to N 11.2
million, including N 2.5 million, or 22%, of operating grants. These,



- 46 -
together with N 0.8 million of non-operating income, were sufficient to
produce a net income of N 0.9 million and contribute N 3.0 million, or 20% of
total investments of N 15.5 million, there having been no debt to service. A
combined rate of return of 3.2% on unrevalued average net fixed assets in
operations was obtained for 1977 and 1978. On the same basis, the Kaduna
district is estimated to have earned a return of between 7% and 12%, while the
other districts combined had negative results.
6.06      Thus it appears that the Kaduna District has been operating profit-
ably in spite of unaccounted-for water in the neighborhood of 45% of water
produced. Lax billing and collection practices and a high number of unregis-
tered connections have been largely responsible for this higher than normal
unaccounted-for water. For their part, the other districts have operated at
an aggregate loss in spite of substantial operating grants. Their poor
results may be attributed to (i) the small size of their water supply systems
with correspondingly high unit production costs, (ii) the application of
uniform state-wide tariffs, and (iii) extremely high unaccounted-for water
stemming from poorly operated systems, widely tolerated use of illegal con-
nections and poor billing and collection practices. While a number of mea-
sures are already underway to improve billing and collection, KSWB gave
assurances that, as a part of the Management and Operations Improvement Plan,
it would set up programs in the Kaduna district to reduce unaccounted-for
water to 25% by 1984 and to raise its rates of billing and collections so that
by 1981 trade accounts receivable would be reduced to the equivalent of two
months billings. KSG agreed during negotiations to pay KSWB, on a monthly
basis, for water consumed at public standpipes at the domestic water tariffs
then in effect - this will also help KSWB's performance in relation to
receivables. KSWB also gave assurances that it would improve performance
under the proposed Management and Operations Improvement Plan (para. 6.04) in
other districts.
6.07      Efforts are also underway to set up separate fixed assets and
other operating accounts by district with the aim of preparing separate
financial statements. These will be essential to assess the operating and
financial performance of the project area. During negotiations, KSWB agreed
that its accounts will be maintained in sufficient detail to be able to
prepare separate income, balance sheets and cash flow statements for each
district, beginning with Kaduna district in FY 1980, and subsequently for
other districts, and that these accounts and financial statements will be
audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Tariffs
6.08      The aspects of economic pricing and appropriate structures have
already been dealt with in paras. 4.10 and 4.12 respectively. From a
financial point of view tariffs have been satisfactory in the Kaduna District,
particularly in the light of the prevailing low operating efficiency (para.
6.06). It is estimated, nevertheless that in the project period tariffs will
have to be raised each year so as to produce an additional 15% more revenue
per year (para. 6.12). This appears reasonable in the Nigerian context.



- 47 -
Financing Strategy
6.09      During negotiations KSWB gave assurances that effective April 1,
1979 it would adopt a financing strategy whereby, inter alia, (i) all revenues
derived from water service in the Kaduna district would be deposited in a
separate account and used exclusively for the payment of the capital and
operating expenditures of the Kaduna district, including a reasonable share of
the operating expenditures of KSWB's headquarters, and the servicing of the
debt of the Kaduna district; (ii) three months prior to the commencement of
each fiscal year, an exercise would be undertaken in consultation with the
Bank, to ensure that tariffs are adjusted as necessary to generate each year
in the Kaduna district revenues sufficient to cover the sum of the cash
operating requirements, the debt service and a percentage of the average
capital expenditures of the Kaduna district for periods of three consecutive
fiscal years, consisting of the prior year, the current year and the following
year. (An indication of the percentage to be achieved each year in Kaduna
district to reflect the latest investment and financing plan is shown in the
penultimate line of Annex 4.3); and (iii) additional debt would not be in-
curred by KSWB unless its internal cash generation covers its maximum future
debt service 1.5 times. Assurances were given by KSWB that, as part of the
MOIP, the revenue covenant, originally only applicable to Kaduna district will
be extended to Zaria and Funtua by FY1981 and to other districts by agreement,
from time to time, between the Bank and KSWB.
6.10      The above strategy appears to be appropriate for KSWB, since it
proposes attainable, realistic targets while contemplating the eventual
integration of all districts under the same financial discipline. A cash
generation covenant is also well indicated because (i) its implementation
requires a lower level of sophistication of the borrower's accounting and
management staff; (ii) it is more readily understood by KSWB and KSG offi-
cials who are used to the government approach of budgeting to meet cash
flow requirements; and (iii) it addresses the crucial aspect of forward
financial planning more directly, requiring KSWB to forecast operating
costs and investment plans at least two years in advance and to establish
its tariffs in relation to these forecasts.
Financing Plan
6.11      The Kaduna District Sources and Applications of funds statements
for the period 1979 through 1985 appear in Annex 4.3. These may be summar-
ized as follows (in million Nairas):



- 48 -
% of
Sources                1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1979-85  Total,
Cash Generation         1.6   2.0   3.5   4.8   6.4  11.9  14.6    44.8    32
Debt Service             -      .6   1.0   2.1   3.4   4.3   8.4    19.8    14
Net Cash Generation  1.6   1.4   2.5   2.7   3.0   7.6   6.2    25.0    18
Proposed IBRD Loan       -    2.9  10.2  18.7  17.2   9.8    .8    59.6    42
Gov't & Army
Contributions          .1   6.3   8.1  11.9  10.3  10.4   9.9    57.0    40
Total              1.7  10.6  20.8  33.3  30.5  27.8  16.9   141.6   100
Requirements
Proposed IBRD Project   .9   3.2  16.2  31.0  30.3  19.3   1.9   102.8    73
Other Projects          6.0   6.8   3.9   2.5   1.9   5.5  18.0    44.6    31
Total Investments 6.9  10.0  20.1  33.5  32.2  24.8  19.9   147.4   104
Working Capital Inc.
(Dec.)               (5.2)   .6    .7   (.2) (1.7)  3.0  (3.0)   (5.8)   (4)
Total              1.7  10.6  20.8  33.3  30.5  27.8  16.9   141.6   100
6.12      The major assumptions.used in preparing the financing plan are found
in Annex 8.  Mainly it was assumed tariffs will increase by 15% per year start-
ing in 1979 and that unaccounted-for water will go from 45% of water produced
in 1978 to about 25% by 1984. Operating and capital expenditures have been
adjusted to reflect expected local and international inflation. On this
basis, the Kaduna district would generate about 18% of its total requirements
during 1979-85. This rate would vary between a low of 8% in 1982, peak
disbursement year of the proposed project, and a high of 31% in 1984 and 1985
when the proposed project has been substantially completed. Bearing in mind
the very low fixed assets base at the beginning of the period, in comparison
to the investment program, the projected cash generation appears very reason-
able and has been agreed with the KSWB. The proposed Bank loan would provide
42%, and Government contributions the remaining 40% of total requirements. As
to the proposed project, it would be financed 58% by the proposed IBRD loan,
24% by Kaduna State Government contributions and 18% by the Kaduna district
internal cash generation. The Kaduna State Government has agreed that, during
the project period, it will allocate the amounts necessary to meet the
financing requirement of the proposed Project after taking into account the
amounts available from the proposed IBRD loan and the internal cash generation
of the Kaduna district. Agreement was also reached with the Kaduna State
Government that such budgetary allocations would be deposited in advance each
quarter in a special bank account to be used exclusively for the capital
expenditures of the proposed Project.  The Federal Government has agreed to
ensure that these financial obligations of the KSG and KSWB for the project,
under their respective agreements, will be met.



- 49 -
6.13      On a three-year rolling average basis, current projections indicate
that cash generation as a percentage of total investments would fall from 14%
in 1980 to 8% in 1981, 9% in 1982, the two years of peak project investment,
and rise to 31% in 1984 and 1985. In the 1979-85 period annual debt service
would be covered at least 1.7 times by internal cash generation.
Future Financial Performance
6.14      The Kaduna district projected Income Statements appear in Annex 4.4.
These may be summarized as follows (in million Nairas):
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Revenues                        3.8    4.7    7.1    9.0   11.3   18.3   22.8
Expenses                        2.8    3.7    4.9    5.9    8.0   11.0   13.5
Operating Income                1.0    1.0    2.2    3.1    3.3    7.3    9.3
Non-Operating Income             .1      .1     .1      .1     .1     .1
Interest                         -     (.6)  (1.0)  (2.1)  (3.4)  (4.3)  (4.4)
Net Income                      1.1      .5    1.3    1.1      -     3.1    5.0
These projections reflect the financial strategy presented in paragraph 6.09
and the assumptions contained in Annex 8.  In the 1979-85 period, no deficit
is expected; operating ratios would not go higher than the 79% in 1980 and would
reach a low of 59% in 1985; and the rate of return on average net fixed assets
in operation--revalued on a basis consistent with the local and foreign infla-
tion factors used in costing the project--would reach a low of 3% in 1983 and
a high of 5.3% in 1985. During negotiations KSWB agreed that, not later than
March 31, 1982, it would value its physical assets, and annually revalue them
thereafter, in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank.
6.15      The Kaduna district projected Balance Sheets appear in Annex 4.5.
These are summarized as follows (in million Nairas):
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                   24.6   33.7   52.6   84.5  113.7  134.0  148.7
Current Assets                  3.2    3.8    5.1    7.0    8.5   10.7   11.9
Total                    27.8   37.5   57.7   91.5  122.2  144.7  160.6
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities             1.5    1.4    1.9    3.8    4.2    3.0    7.1
Deposits                        1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8
Long-Term Debt                   -     2.9   13.1   31.8   49.0   58.8   55.6
Equity                        25.1   31.9   41.3   54.4   67.4   81.2   96.1
Total                    27.8   37.5   57.7   91.5  122.2  144.7  160.6



- 50 -
6.16      In the 1979-85 period, the value of fixed assets in the Kaduna dis-
trict is expected to grow at an average rate of 35% per year. Current ratio
would not go below 1.7 and debt to debt and equity ratio would not go above
42%.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Merit and Risks
7.01      The proposed project will provide Kaduna with reliable supplies of
safe water, eliminate present shortages and strengthen the system substan-
tially. During the project period, approximately 400,000 additional people,
most of them low income, will, for the first time, have access to piped water
as a result of the project. Provision of this basic infrastructure will per-
mit Kaduna to continue to grow as an industrial, administrative and military
center, one of the most important cities in Nigeria. KSWB, the organization
responsible for water supplies throughout Kaduna State would be considerably
strengthened in terms of organization, staff and financial performance as a
consequence of the project. As KSWB is one of the most progressive water
agencies in Nigeria, the Kaduna project, the first to be aided by the Bank
in this sector, can be expected to provide a model for other water utilities
throughout Nigeria.
7.02      Certain risks arise from the preliminary nature of some of the cost
estimates. KSWB's project preparation has concentrated primarily on the
source works to augment Kaduna's water supply and the design and cost esti-
mates of the transmission and particularly the distribution system are, at
this stage, only preliminary. However, project cost estimates are probably
on the high side.
7.03      The scarcity of qualified and experienced executives in KSWB has
caused management deficiencies in the past which must be corrected if KSWB is
to implement this project efficiently. However, recent senior appointments,
are encouraging indications that KSG and KSWB are recognizing these problems
and are taking appropriate action. Such expertise is in limited supply and
much sought after in Nigeria, therefore, the project carries some risk of
KSWB, in future, not being able to attract and/or retain competent management
despite the relevant provisions of the project (paras. 5.06, 5.07 and 6.02).
Agreements Reached
7.04      Agreements have been reached with the Nigerian authorities on the
following points:
(i)  Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) will grant exemption
from incorporation requirements to non-Nigerian contrac-
tors who are awarded project contracts (para. 3.33); and



- 51 -
(ii) Local cost financing (paras. 3.15 and 6.12) and the proposed
lending and onlending arrangements (para. 5.01).
7.05      The Kaduna State Government has agreed on the following points:
(i)  lending arrangements (para. 5.01);
(ii)  project financing including cost overruns (para. 3.15);
(iii) water resources management to safeguard supplies to
KSWB (para. 3.28);
(iv)  prior notification of changes in posts of General Manager
and Secretary to KSWB (para. 5.07);
(v)  provision of project counterpart financing (para. 6.12);
(vi)  reciprocal representation on Boards of KSWB and KCDB
(para. 5.03);
(vii) intensify its public health information campaign (para 2.31); and
(viii)  execute a sanitation improvement program for Kaduna City
(para. 2.31).
7.06      The KSWB agreed on the following points:
(i)  maintenance of competent management team (para. 5.07);
(ii)  acquisition of land for project facilities (para. 3.22);
(iii) continued engagement of external auditors (para. 6.07);
(iv)  water resources management (paras. 3.27 and 3.28);
(v)  reporting procedures (para. 5.20);
(vi)  separation and audit of accounts (para. 6.07);
(vii) tariff action to generate desired cash flow (para. 6.09);
(viii) debt limitation (para. 6.09);
(ix)  undertake a tariff study (para. 4.12);
(x)  prior notification of any organizational or Chief Officer
changes (para. 5.07);



- 52 -
(xi) appointment of a Training Executive Officer (para. 5.18);
(xii) appointment of consultants for manpower planning and training
program (para. 5.17); and
(xiii) value all physical assets by March 31, 1982 and annually
revalue thereafter (para. 6.14).
7.07      It is recommended that the following be made a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan:
KSWB appoint a Project Manager (para. 5.07).
Recommendation
7.08      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of $92 million at the
current rates for interest and commitment fees, to be repaid over 20 years
including a 5-year grace period.



53 -                            ANNEX 1
page 1
NIGERIA - KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
OUTLINE OF KSWB EMERGENCY WORKS PROGRAM
Background
Kaduna is currently experiencing increasing water shortages. Aware
that the proposed project to be built with Bank financial support would be
unlikely to provide additional supplies of water before 1982 or 1983, KSWB
has proceeded independently to augment essential elements of the existing
system in order to eliminate supply constraints in the near future. The cons-
truction of these various elements is referred to as the Emergency Works
Program and the various components are described below.
Engineering assistance for the program has been provided to KSWB by
their consultants Ward, Ashcroft and Parkman (Nigeria).
KSWB intended to have the program implemented entirely by contrac-
tors and were proceeding accordingly. However, in May, 1978 the State govern-
ment instructed KSWB to carry out all civil works (items 5 and 6 below) by
force account. Work has started on October 1, 1978 and KSWB appears to have
adequate construction plant, materials and labor to complete the works success-
fully.
Program Components
1 - South Treatment Works: Package Plant
The very old treatment plant of Kaduna South is the primary water
source for Kaduna's industrial area. Virtually all components of the existing
plant are operating at capacity and many temporary and makeshift modifications
have been made to increase the output of the plant.
Late in 1977 KSWB placed an order with an Italian manufacturer for
a package treatment plant, a portadle unit including a pressure filter with a
rated capacity of 1.2 mgd (5,400 m /day) which would increase the output of
the south waterworks by 17%. The cost of this plant is reportedly N 326,000
(US$0.5 million).
Erection of the plant was substaintially completed in November 1978
and it is expected to be operational by early 1979.
2 - North Treatment Works: Equipment Supply and Erection
In mid-1977 KSWB called for tenders for the supply and erection of
equipment3to increase the capacity of the existing north water works by 10 mgd
(45,500 m /day), effectively doubling plant output. This would essentially
involve the construction of additional rapid gravity sand filters, similar
to those already existing, and the increased utilization of the existing
presettling tank and horizontal flow sedimentation basin.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
page 2
In November 1977, KSWB signed a contract with a British supplier
(PCI) for this equipment for N 0.8 million (US $1.3 million) and equipment
is expected to be delivered early in 1979.
3 - Supply of Pumping and Control Equipment
Tendered in about September, 1977, this contract calls for the
supply of pumps, motors, flow meters and associated control equipment for
the following:
-    2 raw water pumps for the existing intake at the north
treatment plant;
-    2 low lift pumps to transfer water (10 mgd) from the
presettling basin to the planned new filters at the
north treatment plant;
-    6 treated water pumps for the north treatment plant
(4 to Lugard Hall and 2 to State House), plus a standby
electrical generator;
-    2 pumps each for the State House pumping station (to
supply a new elevated storage reservoir at the airport),
the Lugard Hall pumping station (to supply the adjacent
elevated storage reservoir), and from the south treat-
ment plant to Kakuri plus three standby electrical
generators;
Following discussions and clarifications with the supplier, KSWB awarded
the contract in October 1978 at a price of N 3.2 million (US $4.9 million).
Delivery is expected within 12 months of contract signature.
4 - Supply of Transmission Mains
In September 1977, KSWB tendered for the supply of some 17 km of
ductile iron pipes which would be laid under a separate contract. Several
bids were received late in 1977. Following extensive discussions with alter-
native suppliers and their consultants, KSWB was informed by the State Govern-
ment in May, 1978 that the Kaduna State Distribution Agency would become
responsible for the purchase of these pipes. The estimated value of the
contract is N 2.1 million (US$3.4 million).
5 - Installation of Transmission Mains
In about September 1977, KSWB tendered for the installation of some
17 km of transmission mains (to be supplied separately under the contract
discussed above). These mains would link:



- 55 -                          ANNEX I
page 3
-    the Kaduna North treatment plant and the State House
pumping station;
-    the State House pumping station and the new elevated
storage reservoir at the airport;
v - the Lugard Hall pumping station and the Tudun Wada
reservoir on Polytechnic Road.
On the instructions of the state government place works will also be carried
out by force account and work has started in October.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
NICER-A                                   -
KADUNA WATER SUP'PLY PROJECT
Training Component - Cost Estimates
Foreign       Local      Total
Item                             Costs         Costs      Costs
US$000        uSSo00    US$OGC)
(a)  Training Consultant's remuneration
at 36 man-months (all in costs)                200           -          27-
(b) Consultant's local support/services/
transport costs                                -              18         18
(c) 3 man-years of attachment to
European and/or other external
utilities and training institutions
including fees, per diem, air travel
and contingencies                               75           -           75
(d) Training executive officer - training
and familiarization program in an
external/overseas water sector
training organization (3 man-months)             6           -            6
(e) Instructor training and skill
development program in an external/
overseas water sector training
organization - for 3 superintendent
level staff (18 man-months)                     36           _           36
(f) Cost of civil work for extension/
upgrading of Training School:
- 2 workshops of total area 5,400 sq. ft.   40               55         95
- Office, store, canteen, toilet
facilities of total area 1000 sq. ft.        8            10         18
- Total area: 6400 sq. ft. - cost
N18 sq. ft.
- Hard standing area 3000 sq. ft.               I             1          2
(g) Equipment for workshops plus classroom
equipment                                       $5           -7$
(h) Training simulators and demonstration
equipment for outside training area             35            20        55
(i)  Printed and consumable training mat.-rials       2             4          6
(j)  Cost of local training and retraining
of semi-specialized and non-special-.zed
staff (100 man-weeks)                         -                5         5
478          113        591
Contingencies        45            10SS
523           123       646



-57-                             ANNEX 3
page 1
PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
A series of indicators for monitoring project implementation,
KSWB's operating and financial performance and developments pertaining to
water supply were discussed during negotiations and will be included,
inter alia, in the requirements for KSWB's regular reporting to the Bank
(para. 5.20). The principal criteria agreed are as follows:
I.   Project Area Development (Annually)
(i) Total Population of Kaduna; and
(ii) Population Served by:
a) Private Connections; and
b) Standpipes.
II. Project Area Operating Statistics
(i) Volume of water produced from various sources and
total - monthly;
(ii)  Volume of water billed by customer category (domestic
metered, standpipe, industrial/commercial and
institutional) and total - monthly;
(iii) % unaccounted for-water;
(iv)  % estimated/measured physical losses (leakage); and
(v) New distribution pipes laid (Kms) - quarterly;
III. Project Area Commercial Indicators (Monthly)
(i) Collection as % of billing by consumer category and
total;
(ii)  Number of service connections by consumer category
and total; and
(iii) Number of standpipes.
IV. Financial Indicators (Annually)
(i) Audited balance sheet-KSWB;
(ii) Audited income statement-KSWB total and Kaduna
District;



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
page 2
(iii)  Audited funds flow statement-KSWB total and Kaduna
District;
(iv)  Projected funds flow statement for subsequent three
years; and
(v)  Current schedule of water charges.
V.   Project Implementation (Quarterly)
(i) Revised project construction schedule;
(ii) Revised project cost estimates;
(iii) Revised construction schedule Emergency Program; and
(iv) Status of training program.
VI. General (Quarterly)
(i) Number of employees by category (management, professional,
technician, labourer and "daily paid"); and
(ii) Average daily flows in the Kaduna River at the Kaduna North
intake.



- 59 -
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD             ANNEX 4.1
INCOME STATEMENTS'- 1977 AND 1978
(in million Nairas)
1977        1978         Total
Revenues
Sales of Water                             2.9          5.5           8.4
Private Connections                          .1           .2           .3
Operating Grants                            1.4         1.1           2.5
Total Revenues                        4.4          6.8          11.2
Expenses
Salaries and Wages                         1.0          1.1           2.1
Chemicals, Electricity, etc.                1.2         1.2           2.4
Other, including H.Q.                       2.0         2.0           4.0
Depreciation                                1.9           .7 /1       2.6
Total Expenses                        6.1          5.0          11.1
Net Operating Income (Deficit)             (1.7)        1.8             .1
Non-Operating Income                         .5           .3            .8
Net Income (Deficit)                       (1.2)        2.1             .9
Rate of Return on Historically                                        3.2
Valued Assets
/1 Includes change of rates to useful life and prior year adjustment of N 0.7



- 60 -
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD              ANNEX 4.2
BALANCE SHEETS YEAR ENDED 1977 AND 1978
(in million Nairas)
1977             1978
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross                                      37.2              41.6
Depreciation                                5.6               7.7
Net                                    31.6              33.9
Work-in-Progress                            --                7.8
Total Fixed Assets                     31.6             41.7
Investments
51% in WAPDECO                               .1                .3
Current Assets
Cash                                        9.2             10.2
Trade Receivables                           1.2              2.4
Other Receivables                            .4                .3
Stores                                       .9              1.4
11.7             14.3
TOTAL ASSETS                                 43.4             56.3
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Payables                                    1.8              1.9
Deposits                                       .6              1.7
Equity
Government Contributions                  44.1              54.7
Accumulated Prior Years'(Deficit)         ( 1.8)           ( 3.1)
Current Year's Surplus (Deficit)          ( 1.3)             1.1
Total Equity                          41.0              52.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           43.4              56.3



NI GER IA
KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD                                                        ANNEX 4.3
KADL,KA DISTRICT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
(in million Nairas)
E S T I M A T E D
TGrALS             Percent
1979           1980           19S1           1982            1983           1984           1985           1979-85            of Total
SC CRCES
Net Income Before Interest                                         1.1            1.1            2.3            3.2             3.4            7.4            9.4            27.9                  20
Depreciation                                                        .5             .9            1.2            1.6             3.0            4.5            5.2            16.9                  12
Internal Cash Generation                                      1.6            2.0            3.5             4.8            6.4           11.9           14.6             44.8                 32
Less: Debt Service
-  Principal                                                               -              -              -               -              -             4.0             4.0                  3
-  Interest                                                _               .6            1.0            2.1            3.4             4.3            4.4            15.8                 11
-              .6            1.0            2.1            3.4            4.3             8.4            19.8                 14
Net Internal Cash Generation                                       1.6            1.4            2.5            2.7             3.0            7.6            6.2            25.0                  18
Borrowings - Proposed IBRD Loan                                     -             2.9           10.2           18.7           17.2             9.8             .8            59.6                 42
Goverrment Contributions                                            .1            6.3            8.1           11.9           10.3            10.4            9.9            57.0                 40
Total Sources                                              1.7           10.6           20.8           33.3           30.5            27. 8          16.9           141.6                100        i
AF'LICATICNS
Irwestmnrts
laRO Proposed I'roject                                              .9            3.2           26.2           31.0           30.3           19.3             1.9           102.8                 73
E7ergercy Frograirr                                               4.8             6.6            3.5             .6              -              -              -             15.5                 11
Nangi;ti/Ja4i Extension                                             -              -              .3            1.7            1.6            2.5              -              6.1                   4
(ther Project                                                     1.2              .2             .1             .2             .3            3.0            18.0            23.0                 16
ClOV          10.0           20.1           33.5           32.2                           19.9           147.4                104
Working C6pital
Increase (Decrease)                                              (5.2)             .6             .7          (  .2)         ( 1.7)           3.0          ( 3.0)           ( 5.8)             (   4)
Total Applications                                         1 7           10.6           20.8           33.3           30.5           27. 8           16.9           141.6                100
RATIOS
Internal Cash Generation Times Debt Service                         -             3.3            3.5            2.3            1.9            2.8             1.7
Net Internal Cash Generation as . of Investments                    23             14             12              8               9             31             31               iS
Net internal Cash Generation as % of Investments
- Three years moving average                                                 15             10              tO             15             22             33



NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD                                                      ANNEX 4.4
KADUNA DISTRICT
INCOME STATEMENTS
(in million Nairas)
ACTUAL/
ESTIMATED                                  E S T I M A T E D                                   TOTALS             ESTIMATED
1978         1979       1980      1981        1982      1983       1984         1985        1979-85        1986         1987
OPERATING DATA
Production in Thousand m  per day                      68.1            71        78        100        106        112         155          169                        185         199
Sales in Thousand m3 per day                           36.8         43.7       50.7         68       75.3       81.8       116.2        128.4                     142.5        156.0
Losses as . of Production                                46            38        35         32         29         27          25           24                         23          22
Average Revenues in N per m3                           0. 21        0.24       0.25       0.29       0.33       0.38        0.43         0.47                       0.51        0.53
REVMN_ES
Water Sales and Connection Charges                      4.141        3.8        4.7        7.1        9.0       11.3        18.3         22.8        77.0           26.5        30.1
EXrEE:SES
Salaries and Wages                                       .4            .4        .5         .7         .8         .9         1.2          1.4         5.9            1.6         ;.9        0'
Chemicals, Electricity, etc.                              .7           .9       1.0        1.3        1.6        1.8         2.3          3.4        12.3            4.1         4.8
other, Including H.Q. Expense                             .9         1.0        1.3        1.7        1.9        2.3         3.0          3.5        14.7            4.1         4.5  
Depreciation                                             .1           .5         .9        1.2        1.6        3.0         4.5-         5.2        16.9           5.8          6.5
Total Expenses                                     2.1          2.8        3.7        4.9        5.9        8.0        11.0         13.5        49.8          15.6        18.2
Gross Income                                            2.0          1.0        1.0        2.2        3.1        3.3         7.3          9.3        27.2          10.9         11.9
Non-Operating Income                                      .2           .1        .1         .1         .1         .1          .1           .1          .7             .1          .1
Net .ncome Before Interest                              2.2          1.1        1.1        2.3        3.2        3.4         7.4          9.4        27.9           11.0        12.0
Interest                                                  -            -         .6        1.0        2.1        3.4         4.3          4.4        15.8           4.2         4.0
NET INCOME                                                2.2          1.1        ,5         1.3        1.1          -3.1                   5.0        12.1            6.8         8.0
RATIOS
Rate ot Return on Average Net Fixed Assets
-  Historical Values                                    /2         7.0        4.4        7.0        6.0        3.9         6.6          7.7                       8.2          7.9
-  Estimated Current Values                             /T2        5.0        3.4        5.1        4.5        3.0         4.9          5.3                       5.2         4.7
operating (71)                                            51          74         79         69         66         71          60           59                       59          60
/I   1978 revenues include high proportion of retrospective sales, i.e., about one-third
/2   In viev of substantial retrospective billings, calculation of rates of return for 1978 vould not be meaningful.



-63 -
NIGERIA
KADA STATE WTU  BOAD
KADlMA DISTRICT                                                            ANNEX 4.5
BALANCI SHEETS
(in million Haira.)
ACTUAL/
ESTIM4ATED                                          E S T I M A T E D
1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983        1984       1985        1986       1987
ASSETS
Fized Assets
Grove                                                  11.6       22.9      30.9       41.2      74.9       113.4      130.8      144.1        MA.8      190.8
Depreciation                                            1.2        1.7       2.6       3.8        5.4        8.4        12.9       18.1        23.9       30.5
Net                                                  10.4       21.2      2IT    37    i; P!             105.0       117.9      T2!6.0       r         160.3
Work-in-Progre.s                                        7.8        3.4       5.4       15.2      15.0        8.7        16.1       22.7        25.0       30.0
Total fixed Assets                                18.2        24.6      33.7      52.6       84.5      113.7       134.0      148.7      466.9       190.3
Current Assets
Cash                                                    6.6         .6         .7       .9        1.1         1.3        1.6        2.1         2.5        2.9
Trade-Receivables                                       1.8        1.3       1.2        1.2       1.5         1.9        3.1        3.8         4.4        5.0
Other Receivables                                        .2         .3        .4        .4         .5         .5          .6         .6          .7         .7
Stores                                                  .6          .8       1.1        1.5       2.8        4.2         4.7        5.0         5.1        5.2
Prepa7ments                                                         .2        .4        1.1       1.1         .6          .7         .4         .3          .3
Total Current Assets                               9.2         3.2       3.8        5.1       7.0        8.5        10.7       11.9        13.0       14.1
TOTAL ASSETS                                             27.4       27.8      37.5       57.7      91.5       122.2      144.7      160.6       179.9      204.4
LIA8ILITIES
Current Liabilities
P^yables. including Short-term Maturities              2.4          .7        .8        1.2       1.4        1.5         1.8        6.2        6.6         7.0
Retention&                                             _            .8        .6        .7        2.4        2.7         1.2         .9          .6         .5
Total Currsnt Liabilities                          2.4         1.5       1.4        1.9       3.8        4.2         3.0        7.1         7.2        7.5
Deposits                                                  1.1        1.2        1.3       1.4       1.5         1.6        1.7        1.8         1.9        2.0
Long-Term Debt
Proposed IBID Loan                                       -           -       2.9      13.1       31.8       49.0        58.8       55.6       51.6        47.6
Equity
Governent Contributions                               21.7        21.8      28.1      36.2       48.1       58.4        68. 8      78, 7      95,0       115.1
Consumer Contributions (Army)                             -                    -          -        .1        2.8         3.1        3.1         3.1        3.1
AcCUMulted Surplus                                      1         2.2       3.3        3.8       5.1        6.2         6.2        9.3        14.3       21.1
Year's Surplus                                          2.1        1.1        .5        1.3       1.1         _          3.1        5.0         6.8        8.0
Total Equity                                      23.9        25.1      31.9      41.3       54.4       67.4        8L 2       96. 1     119 .2      147.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                        27.4       27.8      37.5       57.7      91.5       122.2      144.7      160.6       179.9      204.4
RAT OS
Current                                                   3.8         2.1       2.7       2.7        1.8        2.0        3.6         1.7        1.8         1.9
Long-Term Debt as % of Long-Term Debt plus Equity            -           -         8        30         37         42         42          37         30          24



- 64-                            ANNEX 5
Page 1
KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Sector Reports and Studies by Others
A.1  "An Inventory of Urban Water Resources Development in Nigeria",
by Professor Lekan Oyebande, published in August, 1977 by the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources.
A.2  "Third National Development Plan, 1975 - 80:  Kaduna State Revised
Programme", published by Ministry of Economic Development in Kaduna.
A.3  "the North Central State Water Board Edict, 1971" (or subsequent
revision).
A.4  "Water Supply Master Plan for Kaduna State Water Board" by MRT
Consulting Engineers Limited; Summary report plus six volumes and
album of maps; June, 1978.
A.5  "Kaduna State - Economic Background"; 7 - page note prepared by
Petkovic and Abukur of Kaduna State Ministry of Economic Development;
April, 1977.
A.6  "Population Census of Kaduna State 1963 and Projections 1976 - 1980
by Local Government Councils and Districts" by Statistics Division,
of Kaduna State Ministry of Economic Development; December, 1977.
A.7  (Possibly sector analysis as a product of "rapid assessment" currently
underway in Nigeria by WHO).
B.   Project-Related Reports and Studies by Others
B.1  "Preliminary Feasibility Report" covering extensions to Kaduna water
supply to the year 2010 by Ward, Ashcroft & Parkman (Nigeria);
January, 1974.
B.2  "Appraisal Report" covering extensions to Kaduna Water Supply to the
year 2000 by Ward, Ashcroft & Parkman (Nigeria); July, 1975.
B.3  "Re-Appraisal Report" and "Report on Emergency Extensions" re
Kaduna Water Supply Extensions by Ward, Ashcroft & Parkman
(Nigeria); September, 1976.
B.4  "Report on Kaduna Water Supply Extensions" by Ward, Ashcroft &
Parkman (Nigeria); November, 1977.
B.5  "Revisions and Additions to Kaduna Water Supply Extensions Report"
by Ward, Ashcroft & Parkman (Nigeria); March, 1978.



ANNEX 5
- 65 -                          Page 2
B.6 "Kaduna City Water Supply Extensions: Location of New Treatment Works",
12-page note by Ward, Ashcroft & Parkman (Nigeria); June, 1978.
B.7 "Some Results of a Plot Housing Survey in Selected Residential Areas
of Kad,..na"; 13-page note by Dr. Tony Seymour of Centre for Social
and Economic Research at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; April 12, 1978.
B.8 "Housing, Income and Occupational Activity in Selected Residential Areas
of Kaduna"; 7-page report outline by Dr. Tony Seymour of Ahmadu Bello
University, Zaria; April 17, 1978.
B.9 "Kaduna Sewerage and Drainage Project: Urban Context; Preliminary
Report" by Consulting Engineers on UNDP Project (Dr. G. Holfelder
Ltd. in cooperation with G. K. W.); May, 1978.
C.   Documentation Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants
C.1 Chronology of Bank Involvement in Project.
C.2 "Nigeria-Kaduna Water Supply: Urban Poverty Analysis"; 59-page
report by Concept Ecodesign International; May 31, 1978.
C.3 Aide Memoire prepared in Kaduna on June 14, 1978 by IBRD appraisal
mission, comprising:
I.   Preliminary Project Cost Estimate;
II.   Outline of Project Components;
III.   Preliminary Conclusion of IBRD Appraisal Mission;
IV.   Critical Actions to Expedite Construction and Early
Operation of Project; and
V.   Preliminary Comments on Draft Tender Documents for
Equipment for Water Treatment Plant.
C.4 Assumptions for Population Projections
C.5 Background Note on Projected Capacity, Production and Sales for
Kaduna District System
C.6 Background Note on Wastewater Disposal in Kaduna
C.7 Outline of Project Components and Basis for Cost Estimate
C.8 Annual Project Capital Expenditures, 1978-1985
C.9 Annual Non-Project Capital Expenditures in Kaduna, 1979-1987
C.10 Long Run Marginal Costs for Water in Kaduna
C.11 Internal Financial Rate of Return Calculations
C.12 Terms of Reference for Tariff Study in Kaduna District



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
NIGERIA
KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Management and Operations Improvement Plan
The agreements and assurances given by KSWB, and referred to in
para. 3.06, whereby it will develop its management and operations in order to
cope effectively and efficiently with the considerable increases in its fixed
assets, facilities and numbers of customers to be served, are set out below:
1.  Management
(i) Employ competent Chief Officers and senior staff (para. 5.07);
(ii) Appoint a Training Executive Officer (para. 5.18); and
(iii) Appoint a Project Manager (para. 5.07).
2.   Engage Consultants, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank:
(i)  To design Kaduna's distribution system (para. 3.17);
(ii)  To design the new source works (including treatment and
pumping facilities), transmission mains and storage
reservoirs (para. 3.17);
(iii) To design the Headquarters building, workshop and com-
munications system (para. 3.19);
(iv)  For manpower planning and training program (para. 5.18);
(v)  To undertake a tariff study (para. 4.12); and
(vi)  If necessary, to help evaluate the future role of the
Kaduna South Water Works (para. 3.24).
3.   Operations - Physical
(i)  Ensure, through Project Management, the cooperation between
consultants of the KSWB and KCDB (paras. 3.17 and 3.18);
(ii)  Prepare a program to cope with increasing numbers of
connections and public standpipes and to reduce the
number of illegal connections (paras. 3.05 and 6.06);
(iii)  Follow a policy of providing water to meet the basic needs
of all residents of the Kaduna area at affordable prices
(para. 3.08);



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
page 2
(iv) Reduce the unaccounted for water to 25% of water produced by
1984 (paras. 3.05 and 6.06);
(v) Monitor Water resources (paras. 3.27 and 3.28);
(vi) Improve the standard of maintenance of all its facilities
and carry out a comprehensive rehabilitation of the Kaduna
North Water Works by December 1980 (paras. 3.04 and 3.05); and
(vii) Arrange for all its major pipelines to be clearly marked on
the ground and recorded on maps and maintenance of access to
pipelines at all times (para. 3.23).
4.   Operations - Financial
(i) In Kaduna District
(a)  Provide 18% of total capital expenditures during project
implementation period by internal cash generation
(para. 6.12);
(b)  Use revenues generated within the district solely for
Kaduna District (para. 6.09);
(c)  Reduce accounts receivable to equivalent of two months
sales by FY1981 (para. 6.06);
(d)  Take all necessary tariff action to generate desired
cash flow (para. 6.09);
(e)  Limit additional debt (para. 6.09);
(f)  Prepare and have audited separate income, balance sheets
and cash flow statements for FY1980 onwards (para. 6.07);
and
(g)  Revalue fixed assets by FY1982 and annually thereafter
(para. 6.14).
(ii) In KSWB generally:
(a)  Prepare separate fixed assets and other operating
accounts by districts and have them separately and
collectively audited (para. 6.07); and
(b)  Improve operating and financial performance of other
districts (paras. 6.06 and 6.07) and extend the KSWB
financial covenants to Kaduna district in FY1980 and
to Zaria and Funtua for FY1981 (para. 6.09).



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
5.   Others
(i)  Maintain a viable organization and prenotify any proposed
changes to the Bank (para. 5.07); and
(ii)  Maintain and/or develop systems and procedures adequate
to meet internal and Bank reporting requirements (para. 5.20)
and preparation of appropriate performance monitoring indi-
cators (Annex 3).



COHPAtATIVE COSTS OF WATU SUPPLY IN S04K WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES
,'                                                                                            (US Dollars,/=)
*i yI,e-
Residents       Residents        Residents                  Industrials      Industrials      Induistrials    Industrials                   Standpipes    Standpipes
C-lI ry                      15 e113/month    30 m3/month    60 m3/month                    750  m3         3,000  m3        6,000  m3       12,000  m3                    150  m3         300  m3           Year
month            month            month            month                      month           month
- Water 11             0.39            0.39             0.39                        0.38             0.35             0.27             0.23                        0.31            0.31            1978
(.dhb,n - WaLer 1                0.74            0.74             0.74                        0.74             0.74             0.72             0.70                        0.74            0.74            1978
(Ca,na - WAtr II/                ().09           0.09             0.09                        0.19             0.19             0.19             0.19                                                        1977
0.40            0.40             0.40                        0.40             0.40             0.40             0.40                        0.40            0.40            1978
l1-ry (Coubt - IV               0.53             0.57             0.58                        0.60             0.56             0.40             0.32                        0.29           0.29             1978
(In 1984)
liberi. - 131                   0.42             0.45             0.45                        0.58             0.59             0.60             0.60                        0.52            0.56            1978'
(Dliakar          0.41             0.49             0.53                        0.57             0.57             0.57             0.57                        0.32           0.32       (
Senega I - I                                                                                             (                                                                                                   1977
Secondary         0.36             0.41             0.43                        0.46             0.46            0.46              0.46                        0.21           0.21
CenLLeru
Nigeria (Kaduna)                 0.27            0.27             0.27                        0.43             0.43             0.43             0.43                        -               -               1977
Togo -                           0.32            0.32             0.32                        0.36             0.36             0.36             0.36                        -               -               1978
1/ Asaumed exchange rates USS - C3
(1000 Imperial gallons -34.5 * 3
2/ Ivory Cost sewerage tariff - 16.9 CFAF/m /month for full tariff and first industrial block (1500 - 41,666 m3lmonth)
3/ Sewerage taritf - 601 of water tariff
(1000 US$ Gallons - 3.75 a
4/ US$ I . 220 CFAk



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD
KADUNA DISTRICT
Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
A.   Income Statements
1.   Revenues are based on present tariffs to be increased by 15% each year
starting in 1979; unaccounted-for water to be reduced from about 45%
of water produced in 1978 to about 25% by 1984; and revenue for private
connections to be an average of N 150;
2.   Expenses include direct salaries and wages increased to foreseen
staffing level plus 13% p.a. salary price increases; chemicals and
other materials in volume proportionate to production plus 8% p.a.
price increase; electricity, fuel and lubricants in volume geared to
production plus 20% p.a. price increase; cost of private connections
(materials) assumed at N 75 per connection; bad debts assumed at 5%
for non-industrial consumers; depreciation at an average of 4% of
gross plant in service; and headquarter charges apportioned on basis
of sales.
B.   Balance Sheets
3.   Fixed Assets - 1978 Kaduna district fixed assets and depreciations
separated by KSWB's accounting department on basis of available in-
formation; those for projected period 1979-85 assume work-in-progress
transferred to fixed assets in service when placed in operation.
4.   Current Assets - cash is at least equivalent to three months of cash
operating expenses; trade receivables 1978 actual equivalent to five
months of sales, forecast 1979 four months, 1980 three months, 1981
and thereafter two months; stores set at 4% of net fixed assets in
operations; and prepayments set at 7% of work-in-progress, i.e. 10%
of 70%.
5.   Current Liabilities - payables equivalent to three months of cash
operating expenses plus 2% of work-in-progress; current maturities
of long-term debt are those of the proposed Bank loan; and retentions
calculated at 10% of the amount of work-in-progress which is trans-
ferred each year to fixed assets in service.



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
6.   Deposits - 1978 actual increased by N 100,000 each year.
7.   Long-term Debt - IBRD proposed loan; with repayment comrancing in 1985.
8.   Equity - Government contributions end 1978 separated on basis of net
fixed assets in service; thereafter Government contributions are equal
to amounts required by the Kaduna district to complete financing of
its investment program, after taking account of its net internal cash
generation and the proposed IBRD loan; consumer contributions represent
half the cost of the Kangimi/Jaji Extension and is to be contributed by
the Army.
9.   Accumulated Surplus - as Kaduna District has been profitable in the
recent past but insufficient data was available, a break-even position
was assumed at the end of 1977, and the actual annual surplus of 1978
was used; the year's surpluses for 1979 through 1987 are derived from
the projected income statements.
C.   Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
10.  Debt Service - IBRD Loan of N 59.6 million (US$92 million) effective
October 1, 1979; terms 20 years of which 5 years of grace at 8% and
commitment fee at 3/4%. Principal repaid over 15 years starting in
1985.



I



IBRD 13938
-  '    ff t G ER R  _     \ *,i                                          8°                                go  JANUARY 1979
/         ."  '. z-  s  \<                                                                NIGERIA
( X' -'KADUNA                                                      KADUNA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
K  ..-STATE                                                                KADUNA  STATE
Kong,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    KoOouO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~141
)    h'0'~" s,rvo   9  j                         -t4°Trunk Roods                                   o    Existirt KSWB
N  ILG,,  R IIA                                         _     _Other Roads                     WaterSuppy
-s--g --t-Roitwoys                   t_ Isohyets in Milineters
I     Stte capitals      --     Rivers
-.''                                          °0 Princpal Towns                SaSte Bourdwries
\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                               In ternational Boundries
Th,. mtp h.. been prepe-ed by the
World 8.00. ethef e,eiy f or I   f A
th. con veis. of the readers of
th, report to wh,c°hf ,t,attahe r d.rs -f               !       >         / \ )                      \                      G  E R ER
The d-ni-ts ed and the
do not - mply, on tha part of tha
Wend 8unk _ndd Oitoe-fhes any
1odg-net o  the legal tatn-f
sy tetory or any endorsement                aur
or-c-cpt-nce of -oh booodarnes
T. 5.kwl0 900g\\2                              utNi9_/>    _s,     /</                                        1
S~~~~~~~~~ Oo                                   K                                                   A N O       0_ oKr
90  0   10  20  30  40  50                                                                                             90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~a  2'
S T A T E                          //   
MILES                    (   TERRITOY               .10
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,s XUCH                                                                   I~~~~~~CH
S  T A T  \ som<okB -T 
-G                     -:        P     5                Xn-                               h 
lo    N     I G  E R' :                                                        '                                                     00
1O~~~~~~~~~~~~10 lp403040 0CPTL                              (LTA§,f                         :    TT
MILES ( ~TERRITORY'!60 9
6°0                                70                                 Ho°                                9°






a_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 XAR    IA
N N  I G E  R               .-HO  ~OTO~j.~ TElBA                                                                             T   AI
-   N             -~~~.22-- ~MONCO ROA  ELVA
BEIN
C  A    E        -C   
,h ~              ~             )       ~
544drmd ysmhr P-820- dbVthe } 74424 5) / **rA
-X   X   Sr$  ffi 1$ =r/2s 9,Eff) }Ct; ;!  ; iif    7                               N        T        A         K        E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTAK
RIGYASAGROUND LEVELt                                                                                                                                                                VITA/2, *nh'9 :\:  \;' i|:'';<       ;X:
RES ERVO I R 170010                       T                            \)S/URNHNMASHI=;      j-hRH J/
'HA2Ap4AM4Z'424,A2IrA22AS~~~~ N                                                                          1 SANUAGENI
z  /000- -d; 0-:1 -  ; J  IJ   >                                w                                              ~~~WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Kl- PUMP                                  -5AJBos
DUA:SR2a                                                                                                                                                             3b(i<l ST1L_A PR 'HIHOJECSTYRA
C   X    RE5ERV   Ir.  407  S 0IVIE10NG0UN0AEY 12°2EA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                             ER OIR
22522  (00084,50 FO'REST 4ESiEHVE22 ,,,,                                                                                                 3O  R                           M    P IIE
I; i I >s i s i i 8 X z ; ;0t tv (                                                                                     I         2        MILES J
O;;l  1:                 2A   T             BY PROPOSED
DILOM TERS BUIOSYTE
''4s                            7222                                                 '-. CO~~~~~~~~~~NOR ONTRCTO
I  LAOOO                                                                                                                     'A- 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSEVI



