LOAN NUMBER 2040 PH
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Support Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2040 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 19, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of .the


﻿-2-
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-
tural and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity


﻿-3-
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof,or additions thereto,. in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from, it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their 'se in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall by January 31, 1982 furnish
to the Bank, an initial staffing plan of its Ministry of Agricul-
ture, which shall summarize the duties and indicate the deployment
of personnel between the Central Office, the Bureaus.and the
Regional Offices.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained with powers, terms of reference, resources and staff
or composition satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) a Project Management Office   responsible for implemen-
tation of the Project, with a ProjeL Monitoring Unit responsible
for monitoring the Project, and a training unit; and
(b) a Project Management Committee in the Ministry of
Agriculture responsible for coordination of Agencies and activi-
ties under the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by the dates hereinafter
set forth, establish or cause to be established, and thnrcafter
maintain or cause to be maintained with powers. resoir-,.3 and
staf! or cumposition satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) by January 31, 1982, a Research Coordinating Cotmittee
in the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for coordination of
agricultural research activities;
(b) by January 31, 1982, one Regional Research Committee in
each of the Borrower's Regions, responsible for agricultural
research programs development and coordination in the respective
Region;
(c) by July 31, 1982, one Regional Agribusiness Council in
each of the Borrower's Regions, responsible for promotion and
review of agribusiness in the respective Region;
(d) by July 31, 1982, a Small Farm Systems Research
Committee jointly formed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the
University of the Philippines at Los Banos, responsible for small
farm systems research; and


﻿-5-
(e) by July 31, 1982, an .expanded Philippine Seed Board to
undertake plant certification functions.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall complete, in the Ministry of
Agriculture:
(a) the functional linkage of the Project Development and
Evaluation Division with the Agricultural Project Preparation
Unit; and
(b) the transfer of the research survey functions of the
Special Studies Division to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
by January 31, 1982.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) designate one Regional Integrated Agricultural Research
Station in each of the Borrower's Regions, responsible for agri-
cultural research in the respective Region, by January 31, 1982;
and
(b) designate the Planning and Programming Division of the
Planning Service in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the
food and nutrition, and agribusiness components of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, by the dates hereinafter
set forth, appoint and thereafter retain, persons whose qualifi-
cations and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in the
positions of:
(a) a Project Manager as head of the Project Management
Office;
(b) by January, 31, 1982, a Manager for each of the Regional
Integrated Agricultural Research Stations responsible for research
operations;
(c) by January 31, 1982, Senior Coordinators in the Project
Management Office responsible for agricultural research coordina-
tion;
(d) by January 31, 1982,.a Research Coordinator for each of
the Borrower's Regions responsible for agricultural research
coordination in the respective Region; and


﻿-6-
(e) a Chief of the linked Division and Unit referred to
in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall by July 31, 1982 make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for research in the coopera-
tive small-farm systems.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall consult with the Bank in the
event major changes in the Presidential Decree Number 1579 of the
Borrower, or the Administrative order Number 2 Series of 1981 of
the Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower, are required.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall cause its Food and Nutrition
Research Institute to furnish by January 31, 1982, through the
Project Management Office, to ;_he Bank for its review and comments
the proposal for the second national nutrition survey under the
Project, before such proposal is submitted to the National Science
and Development Board.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall, prior to approval by the
respective committees, furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Bank for its review and comments by October 31, 1981 and each
October 31 thereafter, research proposals under the Project,
including those on the small farm systems.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.


﻿-7-
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and .(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than-one year after its date.
(d) 'As used' in this Section, the term "government assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Ba.k an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Ministries or Agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting expenditures
described in Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement with regard to civil works carried out
under force account, and in Category (2) of such table with regard
to local expenditures for items each costing the equivalent
of $5,000 or less, on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Ministries and
Agencies responsible fqr carrying out the Project or any part
thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements


﻿with respect to the Project (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than s ix
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account ou the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the training unit of the Project Management Office
referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, has been
established;
(b) the Project Management Committee referred to in Section
3.07 (b) of this Agreement, has been established;
(c) the designation referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this
Agreement, has been completed;
(d) the functional linkage of the Project Development and
Evaluation Division with the Agricultural Project Preparation Unit
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement, has been
completed; and
(e) the appointment of the Chief referred to in Section
3.11 (e) of this Agreement, has been made.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. The date /is U9v          /&, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated -as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry nf Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
-  INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 10 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCEDUE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan.
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  14,000,000        80%
(2) Equipment,                   15,000,000        100% of foreign
materials,                                    expenditures,
chemicals                                     100% of local
and vehicles                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 65% of
other local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'                10,000,000         100%
services and
overseas
training
(4) Unallocated                  6,000,000
TOTAL            45,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
c.Ipliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan-or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated -to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve
the provision of agricultural support services, and consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Research
Strengthening of agricultural research capabilities in
farm technology generation; crop diversification; farm systems;
technology verification; and testing appropriate small farm
technology through Regional Integrated Agricultural Research
Stations before release for farmer use.
Part B:   Regulatory Services
Upgrading of agricultural regulatory services, including
commodity analysis and plans certification, quarantine, feed
analysis, livestock field services, disease diagnosis, vaccine
,production and quality control.
Part C:   Agricultural Planning
1.   Improvement of agricultural project planning, preparation,
implementation, management and monitoring.
2.   Conduct of a second national nutrition survey.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.


﻿14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1987
through September 1, 2001                   1,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          2.90%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                            5.30%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         7.70%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen yea , but not                        8.65%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                               9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Philippines if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Philippines equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
gr-up, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be tOmLJ&LfeU
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 18 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works costing less than the equivalent of $1,000,000
may be carried out either (a) by contracts awarded in accordance
with the Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, or (b) under force account.
2.   Items of equipment, materials, chemicals and vehicles with
a cost estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $50,000 each, may
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000.
3.   Contracts for the conversion of the aircraft operated by
the Ministry of Agriculture and for spare parts therefor, may be
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for said contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
$650,000.
4.   Office supplies and materials, and other necessary items with
a cost estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000 each,
may be procured after solicitation of quotations from three
independent suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank, provided that the aggregate expenditure for items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to contracts for aircraft conversion, contracts
for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more, and contracts for equipment, materials, chemicals and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with


﻿- 19 -
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(e) In the event one contractor is found to be qualified
to carry out the aircraft conversion, work estimates shall be
furnished to the Bank for its approval.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 20 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this.Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this o.ZLday of        W  - V 198 L.
-     RSECRETARY


