Report No. PIC933
Project Name                   Peru-Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Non-sectoral
Project ID                     PEPA8064
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance (MEF)
Date Prepared                  April 4, 1994.
Project Appraisal Date         June 27, 1994.
Projected Board Date           November 1994
Country Background and Adjustment Programs
Peru's economic growth in the past three decades has been
severely compromised due to government mismanagement. Starting with a
steady decline in productivity in the late 60's, the country's
economic deterioration continued in the 80's caused by large increases
in government spending with little increase in social sector
expenditures to show for it. Overexpansion of state-owned enterprises
and administered prices and other interventionist policies also lead
to a slowdown in economic growth. By 1990 per-capita income had
reached levels below that of 1966.
In July 1990 the newly appointed Fujimori administration
implemented a program of stabilization and structural reforms. Its
main objectives being to lower inflation and transform the economy
into a market oriented one. The program included stringent fiscal and
monetary measures, a reorganization of the tax system, and the
liberalization of interest rates and foreign-exchange transactions.
Structural reform also called for liberalization at both the national
and sectoral level, strengthening the role of market mechanisms in the
allocation of resources.
The reform resulted in a drastic drop in inflation (from 7,600
percent in 1990 to about 40 percent in 1992), an increase in tax
collection (from 5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 10.5 percent in 1993) and
a fall of the fiscal deficit (from 6.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 2.7
percent in 1993). Peru's significant recovery brought about a
turnaround in growth (during 1993 the economy grew by 7 percent) an
increase in productivity (at an annual rate of 11 percent since 1990),
as well as a steady improvement in government effectiveness.
As of now a significant part of the needed reforms have already
been adopted, including the deregulation of the domestic market,
reduction of tariffs, the initiation of a privatization and a poverty
alleviation program. But further reforms necessary to develop land and
water markets, to expand gains from international trade, and increase
efficiency of labor and capital markets are needed.
Proposed Loan; Objectives



The reform program supported by the loan has the following
components: (i) Maintain economic stability through tight monetary and
fiscal policy and the reintegration of Peru into the world financial
market, (ii) Develop a market for land and water rights, creating an
efficient mechanism for titling and registering land and water
ownership rights, and (iii) Unify and reduce average tariffs and
eliminate non-tariff barriers, thus encouraging trade expansion and
increasing productivity. The elimination of non-tariff barriers will
reestablish competition in the much affected agriculture and health
sectors (iv) Increase efficiency of labor and capital markets,
reducing the cost of reallocating resources in the economy (v)
Broadening of the tax base, which eliminates tax exemptions, enforces
tax laws and increases tax collection (vi) Strengthening budgeting,
accounting and control systems, which require a reform of the current
budgetary and accounting procedures and the development of a unified
information system, establishing a mechanism to control efficiency in
public spending.
Previous Bank assistance and SAL II financing
The Bank has assisted the Government of Peru in preparing and
implementing its stabilization and structural adjustment reform
program through economic and sector work, technical assistance and
loans. In 1992 alone three loans worth $1 billion were taken to the
Board; the Trade Policy Reform Loan ($300 million), the Structural
Adjustment Loan I ($300 million) and the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan-FSAL ($400 million). The first tranche of the FSAL, and the two
other loans were fully disbursed in 1993.
In FY 93, an Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan,
Privatization Adjustment Loan, and Privatization Technical Assistance
Loan were presented to the Board. The overall lending program has been
accompanied by Economic and Sector Work, such as the Poverty
Assessment in FY93, and other upcoming work in FY94 which include; a
Public Expenditure Review, an Education Sector Review, a Country
Economic Memorandum and a Private Sector Assessment.
The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) amounts to a total of
$100 million dollars, the first tranche becoming available upon
effectiveness and the second upon meeting specific conditions for
tranche release.
Environmental Impact
The SAL's environmental impact is mostly related to the land and water
reforms. Secured property rights for land ownership will bring about
higher accountability on the use of land by farmers in those areas.
The development of a water market will provide an opportunity cost to
water which creates incentives to conserve it. In the past, disregard
for the true cost of water resulted in excessive consumption on farms,
and undue preference for crops with large water requirements. Over-
watering of land has also lead to high levels of soil salinity which
has diminished the amount of available cultivable land.
Poverty Category
-2-



Does not apply
A poverty impact chapter has not been included at the Initiating
Memorandum stage. An analysis of SAL II's input on poverty alleviation
will be included in the final document. The proposed reforms address
crucial issues for developing agriculture, strengthening government's
effectiveness in the supply of public goods, and developing an
environment congenial with economic growth and sustainable poverty
alleviation.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



