Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4133-PE
                               Loan Agreement
                   (Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan)
                                   between
                               REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                     and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated February 26, 1997
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4133-PE
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 26,
1996, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions (taken and
to be taken), objectives and policies designed to achieve pension
reform and capital markets reform (the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the exe-
cution thereof; and
     (B)  the international banking community has responded favorably
to the Borrower's request, dated June 5, 1996 and denominated "1996
Financing Plan" (the 1996 Financing Plan), for participation in a debt
and debt service reduction program designed to support the Program,
and the Borrower has requested the assistance of the Bank for financing
a portion of the cost of: (i) the acquisition of collateral to secure
principal payments on the Collateralized Par Bonds and Collateralized
Discount Bonds (as hereinafter defined) and to secure interest payments
on the Collateralized Par Bonds, Collateralized Discount Bonds and
FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined) to be issued in exchange for existing
debt under the 1996 Financing Plan; and (ii) the purchase price of
Eligible Debt (as hereinafter defined) purchased by the Borrower under
Page  2
the 1996 Financing Plan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Collateral" means collateral pledged by the Borrower to
secure (i) principal andinterest payments on the Collateralized Par
Bonds, the Collateralized Discount Bonds (as hereinafter defined);
and (ii) interest payments onthe FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined) in
accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the 1996
Financing Plan; and "Specific Collateral" means the portion of the
Collateral to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  "Collateral Financing" means the aggregate of the amounts
disbursed by the Bank(including Set-aside Funds, as hereinafter
defined, so disbursed), the International Monetary Fund, the Export-
Import Bank of Japan and the Inter-American Development Bank
explicitly for the financing of the acquisition of Collateral;
     (c)  "Collateralized Discount Bonds" means the collateralized
30-year discount bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1996
Financing Plan;
     (d)  "Collateralized Par Bonds" means the collateralized 30-
year par bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (e)  "Collateral Pledge Agreement" means the agreement made by
the Borrower in favor of the Bank for International Settlements
(BIS), as collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent"),
with respect to the Collateralized Par Bonds, Collateralized
Discount Bonds and FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to
the 1996 Financing Plan in accordance with which the Collateral
for the Collateralized Par Bonds, Collateralized Discount Bonds
and FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined) is maintained;
     (f)  "Debt Purchase Option" means the debt purchased by the
Borrower from Participating Lenders under the mechanism, and in
accordance with the agreements, described under the 1996 Financing
Plan;
     (g)  "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in
the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
     (i)  "FLIRBs" means the collateralized (only for interest
payments) 20-year front loaded interest reduction bonds issued by
the Borrower under the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (j)  "Participating Lenders" means the commercial banks and
other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have parti-
cipated in the 1996 Financing Plan;
Page  3
     (k)  "Pension Reform Adjustment Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
for Loan No. 4134-PE (Pension Reform Adjustment Loan), as such
agreement may be amended from time to time;
     (l)  "Purchase" means the aggregate of cash payments made by
the Borrower to Participating Lenders pursuant to the Debt Purchase
Option, and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and "Specific Purchase" means the specific portions of the
Purchase to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accor-
dance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (m)  "Set-aside Funds" means the funds allocated under the
Pension Reform Adjustment Loan Agreement for the purpose of
financing the carrying out of the 1996 Financing Plan.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to one hundred and eighty three million dollars
($183,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the acquisition of Collateral and
the Purchase required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base
Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but
               excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
               thereafter, and after the initial period, each
               period from and including an Interest Payment Date
               to, but excluding the next following Interest
               Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars for value the first day of such
               Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment
               Date occurring on or next preceding the first day
               of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
               Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
               (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
Page  4
               for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
               London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
               Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
               allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
               loans or portions thereof made by it that include
               the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for deter-
mining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not
less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period
of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall
not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April
15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following
events, the Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding as specified
below together with all accrued interest and other charges thereon:
          (i)  The Bank shall have determined at any time that any
               amount of the Loan has not been used for the purpose
               of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
               Agreement, in which case the amount of the Loan
               subject to prepayment shall be such amount as shall
               have been so determined.
         (ii)  Any portion of the Collateral shall have been
               requested to be released to the Borrower and the
               acquisition cost of the remaining amount of the
               said Collateral shall be less than the amount of
               the Collateral Financing in which case the amount
               of the proceeds of the Loan subject to prepayment
               shall be equal to the proceeds obtained from the
               sale of such Collateral multiplied by a fraction
               the denominator of which shall be the amount of
               the Collateral Financing and the numerator of
               which shall be the amount of the acquisition
               cost of the Specific Collateral. The provisions
               of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
               establishes, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that
               the acquisition cost of such Collateral so
               released has been or will be used to support debt
               or debt service reduction activities of the
               Borrower.
     (b)  The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of any
of the events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5)
working days of the occurrence thereof.
     (c)  Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a date and in
the currency specified by the Bank.
Page  5
     (d)  The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium under
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions in connection with the
prepayment of any portion of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section.
                              ARTICLE III
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the payments made in
respect of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and separate accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
               Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report
               of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
               the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and separate accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
               (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
               such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can
               be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                                Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the Program
and the 1996 Financing Plan.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views in respect of the
Program and the 1996 Financing Plan, the Borrower shall furnish to
Page  6
the Bank for its review and comment a report on the Program and the
1996 Financing Plan in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
     Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section
2.08 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) at all times
keep the Bank informed of all notices, certificates and confirma-
tions issued to or received by the Borrower in respect of the
Collateral; and (ii) provide to the Bank copies of the monthly
reports with respect to the Collateral to be delivered by the
Collateral Agent to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of
the Collateral Pledge Agreement within 15 days of the receipt
thereof.
                                ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable,
in the opinion of  the Bank, that the Program or the 1996 Financing
Plan, or any significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b)  that any event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of
the Bank, materially and adversely affects the maintenance of the
Collateral.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate resources
to implement the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (b)  that the Borrower has entered, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, into agreements with Participating Lenders
for the exchange, under the 1996 Financing Plan, of an amount
equivalent to approximately 95% (ninety five percent) of Eligible
Debt, of which approximately 24.9% (twenty four point nine percent)
shall be exchanged for Collateralized Discount Bonds, 4.4% (four
point four percent) shall be exchanged for Collateralized Par Bonds
and 41% (forty one percent) shall be exchanged for FLIRBs;
     (c)  that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
     (d)  that the Implementation Agreement has become effective
in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02. The date of March 15, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
          Jirn Junn 319
          Lima 1, Peru
                                        Telex:
                                        (511) 426-8500
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI), or
                 Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF PERU
               By /s/ Ricardo Luna
                                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account to
finance 100% of foreign expenditures of payments made by the Borrower
on account of Specific Purchase and purchase of Specific Collateral.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for the acquisition of the Specific Collateral or in
respect of the Specific Purchase.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made for the acquisition of the Specific Collateral
or in respect of the Specific Purchase unless: (a) the Bank shall
have approved the procedures for such withdrawals; (b) the Bank shall
be satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the
arrangements made for the maintenance of the Collateral; (c) except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Set-aside Funds are being
Page  8
disbursed concurrently with the proceeds of the Loan; and (d) in
respect of any Specific Purchase, unless the Borrower has furnished
to the Bank a certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, showing that the Specific Purchase in question, as provided for
in the corresponding agreement or agreements relating to Part B of
the Project, remains in full force and effect. Without limitation or
restriction on the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Condi-
tions, if the Bank shall so request in connection with one or more
withdrawals from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank in connection with any of the aforesaid
conditions.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to September 1, 1996.
5.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to support the Program and the
1996 Financing Plan.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereto as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing the payment
of principal and interest on the Collateralized Par Bonds,
Collateralized Discount Bonds and FLIRBs.
Part B:
     Purchase of Eligible Debt by the Borrower pursuant to the Debt
Purchase Option.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
                                               (Expressed in
Date Payment Due                                  dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning April October 15, 2002
     through October  April 15, 2013              7,625,000
Page  9
_______________________________
* The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
  repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
  Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                    Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   The following provisions of the General Conditions are deleted:
     (a)  Section 5.02.
     (b)  Section 5.04.
     (c)  Section 5.08.
     (d)  The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel
any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in
Section 6.01.
     (e)  Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.
     (f)  Section 6.04.
     (g)  Section 6.07
     (h)  Section 9.04.
     (i)  Section 9.05.
     (j)  Section 9.06.
     (k)  Section 9.08.
     (l)  Section 9.09.
2.   The first sentence of Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:
          "Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the
          Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from the
          Loan Account, the Borrower shall deliver to the Bank a
          written application in such form, and containing such
          statements and agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably
          request."
3.   Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:
          "Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
          monitor the progress of the 1996 Financing Plan (including
          its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
          identify the payments financed out of the proceeds of the
          Loan, and to disclose their use in the 1996 Financing Plan;
          (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine the
          records and documents relevant to the performance of the
          obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement; and
          (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
          information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
          the 1996 Financing Plan, its cost and, where appropriate,
          the benefits to be derived from it, and the payments
Page  10
          financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the carrying out of the 1996 Financing Plan, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
