Report No. PID8702
Project Name                     Mexico-Gender Equity Project: ProGenero...
(LIL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Institutional Development (BI)
Project ID                       MXPE66938
Major Implementation Agency      SEDESOL, General Directorate of
Monitoring and Evaluation
San Antonio #124 ler Piso, Edificio C
Col. Transito, Deleg. Cuahtemoc
Mexico, D.F. C.P. 08323
57 41 0923
Borrower                         Nacional Financiera
Guarantor                        United Mexican States
Date this PID prepared           February 8, 2000
Project Appraisal date           February 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.     Gender is not a sector, but rather a cross-cutting theme.    ProGenero is
designed to focus on gender stereotypes, expectations and institutional
procedures that lead to inequalities and unfair access to resources and
productive opportunities.
2.     Mexico has made significant progress in terms of addressing the salient
gender issues with which many other Latin American continue to struggle.
Nonetheless, gender is still an important economic and social development
issue in Mexico with inequalities persisting. A clear message emerging from
a series of gender studies conducted by the Bank on education, labor market
participation and earnings, micro-enterprise development, and ejido reform in
Mexico, is that gender roles--in particular, women's domestic
responsibilities and the expectation that men will provide the primary source
of household income--have a significant impact on the acquisition of human
capital and the differential abilities of men and women to participate in the
Mexican economy. For self-employed women, the sectoral distribution and
other characteristics of female-owned micro-enterprises is strongly
influenced by the need to combine income generation with domestic work. Men,
meanwhile, are more likely to work when they have young children, and to use
older children and other household members as sources of unpaid labor for
income-generating activities.
3.     Gender roles have also have negative impacts on men.    While the female
labor market participation has increased, male participation has declined.
Recent studies in Mexico suggest that as in other countries, when men's
employment decreases, their status within their families is undermined,
leading to social isolation and the loss of self esteem. Another gender
issue persistent in both rural and urban areas is violence. Existing
evidence shows that women and children are more likely to become victims of
violence both inside and outside of the home. While the increase of women's
participation in the labor market has challenged gender roles in Mexican
society, the disproportionate access to credit for women's micro-credit



enterprises and persistent violence indicate that gender-related issues are a
continuing concern for equitable social development in Mexico.
4.     The Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL) promotes temporary and
permanent employment, including access to credit and to productive projects
in conditions of equity for men and women. However, inequality in access
persists. The ProGenero Project seeks to support the efforts of the GOM in
areas of gender and poverty alleviation in order to achieve more balanced,
equitable gender roles among Mexican men and women in their daily, community
life.
GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE ON GENDER
5.     The social policy of the Government of Mexico (GOM) is based on several
different pillars, including the development of family capital, promotion of
productive social development, enhancement of social participation, and
fostering gender equity.
6.     In 1995, GOM launched the Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1995-2000
(National Development Plan), which included as one of its objectives, the
advancement of the status of women. More recently, in 1999, SEDESOL included
in its mandate the goal to ensure that women comprise 50 percent of its
beneficiaries. This is an enormous challenge that ProGenero seeks to help the
GOM to address.
Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
7.     The guiding principle of the proposed project is that it will apply a
"true" gender perspective by addressing the consequences of gender
expectations and roles on both sexes and considering the linkages between the
genders rather than focusing solely on women. The LIL will provide important
lessons on how communities can play a central role in the promotion of
unbiased gender policies and anti-violence interventions. The successful
implementation of this LIL will make a substantial contribution to the design
of more effective projects that improve the well being of poor men and women
by increasing gender equity and addressing norms, expectations, and values
that lead to gender inequality and discrimination.
8.     The LIL will build on and promote experimentation within already
existing institutions and initiatives rather than creating new ones.
Intensive monitoring and evaluation of the LIL will focus on the most
effective roles government and local communities can play in development
interventions. The LIL will support efforts to institutionalize a gender
perspective in SEDESOL to ensure improved gender equity in the access to
opportunities and resources of development programs.
Project Objectives and Strategy
9.     The development objective of the Mexico Gender Equity Project--
ProGenero, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), is to facilitate the mutual
learning and piloting of community based initiatives to promote gender equity
and improved access to government supported income generation programs in the
context of Mexico's strategy for poverty reduction and social sustainability.
10.    To achieve its objective, the project will support the following
activities: (a) strengthen the SecretarUa de Desarrollo Social, Secretariat
of Social Development--SEDESOL's capacity to incorporate a gender dimension
in its poverty reduction and service delivery programs; (b) improve the
- 2-



access of female producers to Fondo Nacional de Apoyo a las Empresas de
Solidaridad (National Fund to Support Solidarity Small Enterprises - FONAES)
through capacity building and technical assistance; (c) advance leadership
opportunities for women and men by supporting community-based approaches to
gender; and, (d) increase gender awareness and understanding among critical
stakeholder groups.
Project Description
The project will consist of three components:
(a) Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty Alleviation Programs.
The institutionalization of a gender perspective in SEDESOL is important to
ensure improved gender equity in the access to opportunities and resources of
social and economic development programs. There are two sub-components: (a)
capacity building and studies; and (b) institutional strengthening of Gender
and Development Division.
(b) Community Based Gender Development. The objective of this component is
to promote equitable, community-based actions to improve equity in
opportunities for men and women, peaceful sociability, and respect to the
dignity of all social groups, regardless of sex and ethnicity. There are
three sub-components: (a) support to productive activities; (b) leadership
capacity building; and (c) the Convive Program, a small demand-driven grants
program.
( c) Gender Awareness. This component will promote awareness with regard to
the value of equitable relations between men and women by transmitting new
ideas and successful experiences that can be replicated throughout urban and
rural Mexico. There are three sub-components: (a) promotional campaign of
ProGenero; (b) sectoral media campaigns; and (c) recognition and honors to
promote successful innovative gender experiences in the private and public
sector.
Project Costs and Financing
11.    Total estimated project costs are US$3.87 million with a proposed loan
of US$ 3.06 million equivalent, US$0.70 government contribution, and US$0.11
beneficiary contribution.
Project Coordination and Implementation
12.    The project would be implemented over a period of two years (2000-
2002). SEDESOL's Direccion General de Evaluacion y Seguimiento (Monitoring
and Evaluation General Directorate - DGES) will have oversight responsibility
for ProGenero. The Division de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender and Development
Division - DGD) within the DGES will coordinate the administrative and
logistical aspects of project implementation. The DGD was created in July
1999 to oversee and coordinate international gender initiatives related to
SEDESOL's programs, such as Beijing +5. Rather than create a new institution
to function as the Project Coordinating Unit, the DGD will have this role.
The DGD will be responsible for all project implementation activities,
including accounting, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, coordination,
and supervision. The DGD is managed by a General Coordinator who will be
supported by specialists on communication, strategic planning, monitoring and
evaluation and financial administration, in addition to administrative
support. Since the DGD is a relatively new division, the project will
- 3 -



support technical assistance to strengthen its institutional capacity as part
of the Institutional Strengthening Component.
13.    Although the DGD is responsible for project implementation, supervision
and accountability, it will work collaboratively with the DGES, other SEDESOL
Directorates and government agencies, and in close coordination with states,
municipalities and local communities.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
14.    The proposed LIL will pilot and learn from both community-based and
institutional approaches to promoting gender equity. Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) will analyze different types of interventions and incentives
to create models that can be replicated in other areas, sectors, and
countries. The system will be guided by causality criteria to assess the
process and results in each step to support decision-making. The indicators
will be complemented by qualitative data to enhance participation,
incorporate beneficiaries' perceptions, and create an opportunity for them to
provide feedback. The M&E will be systematically documented to enhance the
learning process and exchange experiences with other projects. The M&E
system follows the logical framework of the LIL, assessing component
performance, outputs, and impacts.
Environmental and Social Aspects
15.    The main stakeholders in the proposed LIL are SEDESOL staff in central
and regional offices, NGOs, community-based organizations, women's productive
organizations, and beneficiaries of SEDESOL projects in the areas where the
LIL will be implementing pilot activities. The LIL will finance a baseline
study and a monitoring and evaluation system designed to evaluate the impact
of pilot activities. ProGenero is designed to strengthen and enhance the
capacity of community-based organizations and learn from different pilot
approaches to achieve this objective. In cases where indigenous communities
are in the pilot areas, strategies have been incorporated to enhance their
equal participation in the projects. The Task Manager is a social scientist
and the project team includes a social scientist who contributed to design of
the monitoring and evaluation system. The LIL is designed to approach gender
equity as an innovative learning experience and therefore, the majority of
the social analysis will be carried out during implementation.
Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   [ ] A   [ ] B
[XI C
16.    No environmental impacts are anticipated from the proposed project
activities.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Maria-Valeria Pena
Task Manager
-4-



(202) 573-5763
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 18, 2000.
- 5 -



