                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 35589

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (FSLT-70220)

                                          ON A

                      PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.07 MILLION

                           TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                                        MEXICO

                                        FOR A

                        GENDER EQUITY PROJECT GENEROSIDAD




                                      Marzo 24, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                    Currency Unit = $ Mexican Pesos
                                                   1$ = US$ 0.106
                                              US$ 1 = $9.418

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 through      December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANSEFI   Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros S.N.C.
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CONMUJER Comisión Nacional de la Mujer
CSO       Civil Society Organization
FONAES    National Fund to Support Solidarity Businesses (Fondo Nacional de Apoyo a las Empresas de
          Solidaridad)
GOM       Government of Mexico
INI       National Indigenous Institute (Instituto Nacional Indigenista)
INMUJERES Mexican Women's Institute
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEG       Gender Equity Model (Modelo de Equidad de Genero)
NAFIN     National Development Bank (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PHRD      Policy and Human Resource Development (Japan Trust Fund)
PROGENERO Gender Equity Project
QAG       Quality Assistance Group
QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SEDESOL   Ministry of Social Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SE        Secretaría de Economía
SHCP      Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SISESIM   System of Indicators for Monitoring the Situation of Women in Mexico (Sistema de Indicadores
          para el Seguimiento de la Situación de la Mujer en México)
TF        Trust Fund
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WID       Women in Development


                                   Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                                Country Director         Isabel Guerrero
                                  Sector Manager         Jaime Saavedra
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Maria Elena Castro-Muñoz

                                           MEXICO
                             Gender Equity Project: Generosidad


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            27
6. Sustainability                                                                28
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 30
8. Lessons Learned                                                               32
9. Partner Comments                                                              35
10. Additional Information                                                       37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              47
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            61

Project ID: P066938                                                  Project Name: Gender Equity Project: Generosidad
Team Leader: Maria E. Castro Munoz                                   TL Unit: LCSEO
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: April 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Gender Equity Project: Generosidad                       L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70220
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (64%); Other social services (24%); Micro- and SME
                            finance (12%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural non-farm income generation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/10/1999                                     Effective: 01/25/2002                04/25/2002
     Appraisal: 02/17/2000                                         MTR: 06/01/2003                  01/20/2004
      Approval: 06/16/2000                                      Closing: 12/30/2004                 12/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UNITED MEXICAN STATES/INMUJERES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Jaime Saavedra                                 Maria C. Correia
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria E. Castro Munoz                          Maria-Valeria Pena
ICR Primary Author:             Olympia Beatriz Icochea; Maria
                                E. Castro Munoz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objective of Mexico's LIL Gender Equity Project - GENEROSIDAD was to facilitate the

mutual learning and -innovation of community-based initiatives to promote gender equity and improved
access to government-supported income generation programs in the context of Mexico's strategy for
poverty reduction and social sustainability.

Specifically, the proposed LIL program would develop an innovative model for mainstreaming gender
equity into development interventions based on the following actions and strategies:
(a) Incorporating a new gender approach in the public sector through supporting the process of
    institution-building of the Mexican Women's Institute (INMUJERES) to promote gender equity in
    Mexico and to increase equal access to opportunities and resources for men and women. Main
    actions included the following: (i) gender and poverty capacity-building for INMUJERES; and (ii) a
    promotion campaign to broadly disseminate the general objectives of the Project to government
    agencies, NGOs, the private sector and the general public.

(b) Developing incentives to promote better interaction between genders in community life and in the
    work place, through the development and implementation of: (i) small grant provision through
    demand-driven and competitive mechanisms to Civil Society Organizations (CSO) comprises either
    community-based organizations or NGOs to support those activities aimed at enhancing and fostering
    tolerance and peaceful sociability in community life (CONVIVE Program); and (ii) a certification
    program that recognizes and honors private sector initiatives to implement programs that promote
    gender equity: Gender Equity Model (GEM) 2003.

(c) Strengthening the leadership capacity of women and men to act as better productive agents and active
    citizens in their communities, through the development and implementation of (i) capacity-building
    and technical assistance to selected women's groups to increase their opportunities to obtain financial
    and institutional support for the development of small, sustainable income-generating projects; (ii)
    training to NGOs that provide technical assistance but lack a gender focus; (ii) leadership
    capacity-building for men and women to strengthen the civic participation of female leaders, and to
    raise the awareness of male leaders on the dynamics of gender roles in Mexican society; and (iii) media
    campaigns to promote awareness in the general public on the value of equitable relationships between
    men and women.

The LIL's development objectives were realistic, achievable and consistent with the Government of
Mexico's gender strategy. The Project was initially designed to be implemented by the Social Development
Ministry (Secretaría de Desarrollo Social, SEDESOL). However, the creation of the Instituto Nacional de
las Mujeres (INMUJERES) by President Fox's government in 2001, provided the opportunity to have a
specialized high-level institution implementing the Project. INMUJERES consolidated the efforts of
previous administrations to create an agency with sufficient technical, financial and administrative capacity
to institutionalize the promotion of gender equity in Mexican society. Mainstreaming a gender approach
into public policies at the federal level was a main criterion for pursuing this objective. The existence of
gender initiatives and programs in several public agencies enhanced the opportunities for synergies with
INMUJERES and the Project. Also, the fact that the Project preparation was carried out with a
participatory approach based on consultations with relevant stakeholders ­ i.e. public sector officials,
NGOs, (CSO) UNDP, members of the academia and gender specialists ­ contributed substantially to the
ownership, pertinence and feasibility of the Project's objectives. In addition, the monitoring and evaluation
system designed and executed under the Project, guaranteed that its objectives could be achieved and
assessed.

The LIL was consistent with Mexico's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed on December 1999.
(CAS document number 19289-MX. Date of latest discussion: May 13, 1999.) The Project was aligned


                                                    - 2 -

with two of the three objectives of the CAS: (i) promoting social sustainability and; (ii) enhancing public
governance. To achieve the first objective, the Project promoted social development policies and programs
to carry out community development actions to promote social sustainability. By integrating a gender
approach into social development interventions and by promoting community development programs, the
Project aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of these policies. Hence, the Project would contribute to
improving men's and women's access to and benefits from social development interventions by addressing
gender issues that perpetuated exclusion and discrimination. The strategy for enhancing public governance
consisted of raising the awareness, responsibility and importance of gender equity and male and female
leadership to facilitate civic engagement. The implementation of the CONVIVE and the MEG fostered
cooperation between the public sector and civil society through the pursuit of a common objective that
would provide the basic elements for enhancing governance (e.g., private sector participation in a public
program, decentralization of decisions, and making the communities accountable for the project transfers).

The justification for a learning and innovation loan was strong. Although Mexico had made significant
progress in terms of addressing traditional gender disparities in education attainment and maternal
mortality rates, the Government of Mexico (GoM) realized that a gender equity approach was required to
address emerging second-generation issues, in order to have a broader impact on gender equity. The
prevalence of traditional gender roles, in which men are the breadwinners and women carry most of the
burden of domestic work was identified as a strong factor in the fact that women's participation in the labor
force was still lower than in other similar income-level countries; as well as for the gender disparities
observed in the returns to human capital in the rural labor market, in the levels of micro-enterprise
earnings, and in the effects of land reforms not fully benefiting women. These traditional roles prevented
both men and women from accessing and benefiting from development programs. The typical interventions
previously employed to tackle these issues followed a Women in Development (WID) approach that only
targeted women, and had limited impact due to the resistance that this type of intervention produces in some
cases. To address these limitations, the GoM wanted to follow a different approach, consisting of targeting
relations between men and women, and to overcome women's barriers and facilitate their access to
economic and social opportunities. Since there was limited operational experience with this new approach
both in Mexico and within the World Bank, a LIL would provide a learning opportunity for integrating this
approach.

The LIL's design and scope were properly defined. As mentioned above, the Project design followed a
participatory approach. Two consultative workshops were carried out to design the Project involving public
sector officials, NGOs, (CSO) UNDP, members from the academia, and international gender specialists. In
addition, support from a Japanese PHRD grant (TF025982) helped set the basis for Project
implementation.    For example, the information provided by the institutional assessment on women's
constraints on reaping the benefits from micro-enterprise, contributed to the design of the technical
assistance component for supporting productive activities. Likewise, the social assessment confirmed the
importance of addressing the consequences of women having to shoulder the burden of all household
chores, constraining their time thereby hampering their ability to develop their capacities, seek different
opportunities and participating in the labor force or in income-generating programs.

Most importantly, the Gender Equity LIL Project was designed and understood from its inception as a
learning and innovation loan. This was reflected by: (i) focusing on overcoming gender stereotypes by
promoting a new gender approach that targeted both men and women, and was based on leadership and
awareness about the value of equitable relations between genders; (ii) partnering with the private sector and
civic society to test activities aimed at promoting better gender interactions in the workplace and
community life that could become sustainable; (iii) developing innovative methodologies and tools to
increase equal access of men and women to opportunities and resources; (iv) defining proper and


                                                      - 3 -

participatory evaluation mechanisms throughout Project implementation; and (v) anticipating specific
activities for consensus building and results dissemination for the LIL ­ both needed to expand the learning
process.

Finally, the LIL was not too complex in terms of implementation, even though its design included profound
innovative features and a wide array of instruments to be developed and tested through on two concrete
models: (i) labor arrangements in private firms and public institutions, and (ii) community-based initiatives.
Nor was it anticipated to be overly demanding, as assessments carried out during preparation showed that
INMUJERES had the necessary technical, financial and administrative capacity to execute the Project.
Critical institutional challenges were properly resolved before the effectiveness of the loan, paving the way
for the initiation and implementation of a learning and innovation project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

In the interval between loan negotiations and compliance with the conditions of effectiveness, the new
administration that took office in December 2000, requested a change in the Project-executing agency, from
SEDESOL to INMUJERES. However, the development objectives were maintained because they were
consistent with the mission and policies of the new executing agency.

3.3 Original Components:

The change in executing agency made it necessary to adapt the components to be coherent with
INMUJERES' institutional structure. Due to the limited time-frame to make these changes before the
World Bank's deadline to declare the loan annulled, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was not
changed. However, the Loan Agreement included the adapted components and the new performance
indicators. Following is a description of each component, as stated in the PAD.

Component I. Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty-alleviation Programs (US$1.12
million, equivalent to 28.9 percent of total project cost).

The institutionalization of a gender perspective in SEDESOL is designed to ensure improved gender equity
in the access to opportunities, and resources of social and economic development programs. This
component is designed to strengthen activities that are currently being implemented in SEDESOL and build
upon and compliment the efforts initiated by the Mesa de Trabajo sobre Enfoque de Género (Task Force
on Gender Approach). This component comprises the following sub-components:

1. Capacity-building and Studies. This sub-component comprises the following actions:
(a) design and implementation of awareness raising seminars and workshops to build the capacity of
    SEDESOL employees and raise their awareness of gender issues in the day-to-day operations of
    programs aimed at poverty reduction, including the development of gender-oriented didactic materials
    for internal dissemination;

(b) conduct a review of the norms, standards, processes, and procedures of SEDESOL poverty alleviation
    programs (Ramo 26); propose pertinent actions and modifications; assess potential barriers to access,
    develop materials for dissemination to explain changes in norms; and incorporate changes into the
    monitoring and evaluation system; and

(c) implement and monitor an information system with a gender focus in coordination with INEGI by
    integrating the statistical system for social development data (Sistema Estadístico de Seguimiento de la



                                                      - 4 -

    Situación de la Mujer en Mexico module - SISEMIS) to enable the generation of disaggregated
    statistics with incorporation of the baseline study. This activity includes training SEDESOL program
    staff on the generation of gender-based statistics and indicators.

2. Institutional Strengthening of the Gender and Development Unit. To strengthen the capacity of the
newly-established Dirección de Género y Desarrollo (Gender and Development Division - DGD) to realize
the Project objectives through the provision of: (a) technical resources through training in gender issues; (b)
human resources by use of communication, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation, and financial
administrative specialists; and (c) material resources through the acquisition of necessary computer
equipment. The DGD General Coordinator position is funded by SEDESOL.

Component II. Community-based Gender Development (US$1.8 million, equivalent to 46.9 percent of
total project costs).

The objective of this component is to promote community-based actions to improve equity in opportunities
for men and women, peaceful sociability, and respect to the dignity of all social groups, regardless of sex
and ethnicity. This component is comprised of the following sub-components:

1. Support to Productive Activities. To foster more equitable access to and demand for financial and
institutional support for the development of small, sustainable income generating projects. This
sub-component comprises the following actions:
(a) capacity-building and technical assistance to selected women 's groups working in areas where
    FONAES is active on: (i) productive project preparation; (ii) credit management requirements; (iii)
    management capacity; and (iv) development of nontraditional projects. NGOs with experience in
    women's micro-enterprise development will be contracted to develop and conduct the training. Women's
    groups will prepare and submit proposals for technical assistance with the support of the NGOs. For
    training activities, there is a minimum matching contribution of 20 percent;

(b) capacity-building and technical assistance to NGOs which work in the area of productive projects but
    without a gender focus in: (i) transfer of knowledge to potential beneficiaries; (ii) development of
    productive projects with a gender focus; (iii) gender-focused community organization; (iv)
    participatory monitoring and evaluation with gender focus; and (v) improved promotion of productive
    projects. A consultant or NGO with expertise in the field will be selected to develop and conduct the
    training. NGOs will prepare and submit proposals for technical assistance; and

(c) strengthening of resources in technical assistance through: (i) development of an accessible directory
    and database for the identification of organizations with the capacity to provide technical assistance in
    critical areas of productive projects; (ii) implementation of dissemination and awareness raising
    workshops to establish and strengthen resources for technical assistance in FONAES; (iii)
    establishment of agreements with universities and higher education institutions, high schools for
    professionals and business chambers who provide technical assistance.

2. Leadership Capacity-building. To strengthen, from a gender perspective, the civic participation of
female leaders in order to empower them in the public and private sectors, and raise the awareness of male
leaders of the changes in gender roles in Mexican society. This sub-component will be carried out through
training programs developed specifically for male and female leaders in regions with a high incidence in
male migration and in areas with a high incidence of female employment. The areas selected will overlap in
part with that of the Support to Productive Activities sub-component and in part with the CONVIVE
Program in order to better understand how increased leadership may affect outcomes in those programs and


                                                      - 5 -

to learn from leadership building in regions with distinct characteristics. Eligible candidates include leaders
from community and peasant organizations, small businesses, health and education projects, municipalities
or parents' commissions. To compliment the training program, exchanges will be held with male and female
leaders to transfer successful experiences of gender-focused initiatives. NGOs will be selected to carry out
the program and will be required to design participatory methodologies and elaborate a capacity-building
manual.

3. "CONVIVE" Program. To enhance community life and peaceful sociability and foster tolerance in
community life by providing small grants through demand driven and competitive mechanisms to civil
society organizations. The program coverage will be national and the menu of possible activities will
include cultural, recreational, educational and environmental programs with the participation of men and
women in equitable terms. The menu will be open to enable innovation in project proposals. In order to
promote learning opportunities on how to stimulate peaceful coexistence among men and women, the
projects should address issues of sustainability and include a methodology and the expected social impact
in the region or in the community. Proposals for sub-projects may not exceed $10,000 and should include a
minimum community contribution of 10 percent. Eligibility criteria and procedures are detailed in the
Operations Manual.

Component III. Gender Awareness (US$0.91 million, equivalent to 23.5 percent of total project costs).

This component will promote awareness with regard to the value of equitable relations between men and
women by transmitting new ideas and successful experiences that can be replicated throughout urban and
rural Mexico. This component is comprised of the following sub-components:

1. Promotional Campaign of PROGENERO. To broadly disseminate the general objectives and goals of
the project among governmental institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public through: (a)
workshop to launch PROGENERO with national coverage; and (b) creation of a slogan, logo, radio,
television and print promotional spots and print publicity materials for dissemination by a public relations
firm.

2. Sectoral Media Campaigns.         To raise awareness of the general population, focusing on social
expectations of gender roles, equitable access to income generation opportunities, and the value of trust and
a not violent sociability in the family and in the community. In addition to the forms of communication
detailed above, sector campaigns will be promoted by INI through their radio spots in indigenous languages
in order to increase demand and enhance the participation of potential organized indigenous women's
groups in project activities. Campaigns will also be coordinated with the Social Subsidy program, which
reaches more marginalized and isolated regions through two distributors the Distribudora y
Comercializada CONASUPO S.A. (DICONSA) and Leche Industrializada Conasupo S.A.(LICONSA).

3. Recognition and Honors. The objective of this sub-component is to identify, disseminate and promote
successful innovative gender experiences in the private and public sector. The honors will consist of
incentives for the recognition and positive reinforcement of successful innovative projects and best
practices that have been carried out or completed in the last two years by different local and private
associations. Honors, in the form of non-monetary recognition, will be prioritized to the private sector for
human relations, salaries, recruitment and benefits policies, and actions with positive impacts on gender
discrimination and working conditions for men and women. Similarly, local municipalities that have
prioritized actions, which promote gender equity and better living conditions for men and women, will
receive recognition honors. Both types of honors will be received in ceremonies in Mexico City with
extensive promotion.


                                                     - 6 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Following are the adapted Project components as stated in the Project's Loan Agreement.

Component I. Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty-alleviation Programs (US$1.2
million, equivalent to 29.1 percent of total project costs).

Aimed at supporting the process of institution-building of INMUJERES to promote gender equity in
Mexico and increase equal access of men and women to opportunities and resources. This component has
two sub-components:

1. Capacity-building and Studies.This sub-component includes the following actions:
(a) design and implementation of awareness raising seminars and workshops to build the capacity of
   INMUJERES employees and raise the awareness of gender issues in programs aimed at poverty
   reduction and alleviation, including the development of gender-oriented didactic materials for
   dissemination;

(b) carry out a program of studies on the living conditions of women, particularly the situation of women
   in poverty with further development of methodologies to incorporate the perspective of gender in
   poverty-targeted programs; and

(c) implement and monitor an evaluation and information system with a gender focus to be integrated in
   the statistical system for social development (SISEMIS module) enabling the generation of
   gender-disaggregated statistics. This activity includes training INMUJERES staff on the generation of
   gender-based statistics and indicators.

2. Support the consolidation of INMUJERES. To carry out the Project objectives through the provision
of: (a) qualified specialist on communication, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, and administration; and (b) equipment.

Component II. Community-based Gender Development (US$1.8 million, equivalent to 47.2 percent of
total project costs).

The objective of this component is to promote community-based actions to improve equity in opportunities
for men and women, peaceful sociability, and respect to the dignity of all social groups, regardless of sex
and ethnicity. The geographic targeting of LIL regions and communities and the eligibility criteria for
selection and participation in each subcomponent are detailed in the Operations Manual. Eligibility is based
on strategic choices of regions and communities where Generosidad activities can have a great impact in
the short run, with characteristics such as, areas undergoing an economic transition with the introduction of
"maquiladoras" and international investment and those with a strong community life, advanced
organizational level, and an active social and cultural sector. This component is comprised of the following
sub-components:

1. Support to Productive Activities. To foster more equitable access to and demand for financial and
institutional support for the development of small, sustainable income generating projects. This
sub-component comprises the following actions:
(a) capacity-building and technical assistance to selected women 's groups working in areas where
    FONAES is active on: (i) productive project preparation; (ii) credit management requirements; (iii)


                                                      - 7 -

    management capacity; and (iv) development of nontraditional projects. NGOs with experience in
    women's micro-enterprise development will be contracted to develop and conduct the training. Women's
    groups will prepare and submit proposals for technical assistance with the support of the NGOs. For
    training activities, there is a minimum matching contribution of 20 percent;

(b) capacity-building and technical assistance to NGOs which work in the area of productive projects but
    without a gender focus in: (i) transfer of knowledge to potential beneficiaries; (ii) development of
    productive projects with a gender focus; (iii) gender-focused community organization; (iv)
    participatory monitoring and evaluation with gender focus; and (v) improved promotion of productive
    projects. A consultant or NGO with expertise in the field will be selected to develop and conduct the
    training. NGOs will prepare and submit proposals for technical assistance;

(c) strengthening of resources in technical assistance through: (i) development of an accessible directory
    and database for the identification of organizations with the capacity to provide technical assistance in
    critical areas of productive projects; (ii) implementation of dissemination and awareness raising
    workshops to establish and strengthen resources for technical assistance in FONAES; (iii)
    establishment of agreements with universities and higher education institutions, high schools for
    professionals and business chambers who provide technical assistance.

2. Leadership Capacity-building. To strengthen, from a gender perspective, the civic participation of
female leaders in order to empower them in the public and private sectors, and raise the awareness of male
leaders of the changes in gender roles in Mexican society. This sub-component will be carried out through
training programs developed specifically for male and female leaders in regions with a high incidence in
male migration and in areas with a high incidence of female employment. The areas selected will overlap in
part with that of the Support to Productive Activities sub-component and in part with the CONVIVE
Program in order to better understand how increased leadership may affect outcomes in those programs and
to learn from leadership building in regions with distinct characteristics. Eligible candidates include leaders
from community and peasant organizations, small businesses, health and education projects, municipalities
or parents' commissions. To compliment the training program, exchanges will be held with male and female
leaders to transfer successful experiences of gender-focused initiatives. NGOs will be selected to carry out
the program and will be required to design participatory methodologies and elaborate a capacity-building
manual.

3. "CONVIVE" Program to enhance community life and peaceful sociability and foster tolerance in
community life by providing small grants through demand driven and competitive mechanisms to civil
society organizations. The program coverage will be national and the menu of possible activities will
include cultural, recreational, educational and environmental programs with the participation of men and
women in equitable terms. The menu will be open to enable innovation in project proposals. In order to
promote learning opportunities on how to stimulate peaceful coexistence among men and women, the
projects should address issues of sustainability and include a methodology and the expected social impact
in the region or in the community. Proposals for sub-projects may not exceed $10,000 and should include a
minimum community contribution of 10 percent. Eligibility criteria and procedures are detailed in the
Operations Manual.

Component III. Gender Awareness (US$0.91 million, equivalent to 23.7 percent of total project costs).

This component will promote awareness with regard to the value of equitable relations between men and
women by transmitting new ideas and successful experiences that can be replicated throughout urban and
rural Mexico. This component is comprised of the following sub-components:


                                                    - 8 -

1. Promotional Campaign of GENEROSIDAD. To broadly disseminate the general objectives and goals
of the Project among governmental institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public through:
(a) workshop to launch GENEROSIDAD with national coverage; and (b) creation of a slogan, logo, radio,
television, promotional spots and print publicity materials for dissemination by a public relations firm.
INMUJERES will try to optimize official mass media spots to increase dissemination without increasing
costs. A communication specialist within INMUJERES will assist with the development and
implementation of all campaigns and promotional activities.

2. Media Campaigns. To raise awareness of the general population, focusing on social expectations of
gender roles, equitable access to income generation opportunities, and the value of trust and a non violent
sociability in the family and in the community. In addition to the forms of communication detailed above,
sectoral campaigns will be promoted by Instituto Nacional Indigenista, INI) through their radio spots in
indigenous languages in order to increase demand and enhance the participation of potential organized
indigenous women's groups in Project activities.

3. Certification. The objective of this sub-component is to identify, disseminate and promote successful
innovative gender experiences in the private and public sector. Five activities will be financed: (a) studies
on costs associated with hiring women in the formal labor market and their labor productivity; (b)
definition of criteria for certification; (c) designing of a process for certification; (d) promotion; (e) field
work and evaluation for conferring certifications. The certification process will consist of gender seals of
approval and recognition for private and public organizations for the implementation of programs or
internal policies that promote equality among employees of different genders.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) considers the quality at entry to have been satisfactory and the
Project as having been well conceived in its learning and innovation objectives. As mentioned in Section
3.1, the Project's objective was consistent with the CAS and with the GoM's priorities on its gender work.
It addressed with innovation and technical soundness core critical needs in Mexico's society. To this end, it
used a participatory, well-prepared implementation plan.

The design of the Project was appropriate on the following basis: (i) identifying an opportunity to support
the GoM in enhancing knowledge for mainstreaming gender; (ii) following a participatory approach in
project design to guarantee the pertinence and ownership of Project objectives; (iii) carrying out technical
work to support the Project design; (iv) partnering with other agencies to ensure the implementation of
specific activities; (v) making an adequate assessment of the institutional capacity of the implementing
agency; and (v) realistically assessing the Project risks. Despite the fact that the Project components had to
be adapted to a new executing agency (INMUJERES), the Project preparation team was able to rapidly and
effectively conduct an organizational assessment to guarantee the adequate capacity of INMUJERES to
implement the Project.

Since this was the first self-standing gender Project in the World Bank, there were no previous lessons
learned from which the Project design could draw. Therefore, the design of a monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system was carried out from the very early stages of the Project in order to ensure a well
established and reliable mechanism that could provide timely feedback for supporting the Project learning
process and the achievement of its development objectives. The M&E would be guided by causality criteria



                                                      - 9 -

to assess the process and results in each step to support decision-making. The M&E system followed a
participatory approach, its indicators would be complemented by qualitative data to enhance participation
of the Project stakeholders, incorporate beneficiaries' perceptions and create the opportunities to provide
feedback. Finally, the M&E system included process, outputs and impact to assess progress and evaluate
results.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Highly Satisfactory. The LIL Project met and exceeded all its objectives as presented in the next table.

 Key indicator                                         Proposed              Achieved
 Increased women's participation in FONAES                 15%                  59%
 productive projects.
 Key management and technical personnel trained to        100%                  100%
 incorporate gender equity approach in Inmujeres.
 Community leaders trained on the relationship between    100 (30 men,          434 (145 men,
 gender and development.                                  70 women)             280 women)
 Certification program designed and implemented.          40 firms              57 firms
 Number of communities in which Fondo Convive and          40                   69
 Productive subprojects have been implemented
 together.


To achieve its objectives the LIL carried out quantitative and qualitative studies and consultation with key
stakeholders to better target beneficiaries, refine instruments and test alternatives. On this basis, two
models were designed and implemented to promote gender equity: The CONVIVE Model implemented at
the community level in selected cities; and the Gender Equity Model (GEM) applied in the private sector
and federal entities.

The Main outcomes of the Convive Model are:

· Women empowerment: most of the six thousand women beneficiaries under the project are now playing a
  major role in community development and family life, and they report having better women-men
  relationships;

· A new cohort of 290 women leaders developed under the Convive Program are contributing to the
enhancement of social capital in their communities;

· Stronger community-based organizations with an integrated gender perspective are promoting civic
  engagement: 53 of the 69 Convive-supported organizations are continuing work in the 34 Convive Cities
  across the country, playing a role in local programs and political activities;

· Eighty percent (80%) of women's organizations in the project, initially without legal recognition, have
gained legal status;

· Technical assistance with a gender perspective proved to be a factor in obtaining financing and
  successfully implementing productive projects; within the communities under the project, women
  participation in FONAES increased by 59% and improved productive capability of the 1,251 leaders



                                                    - 10 -

  trained, both men and women;

· Technical assistance with an integrated gender perspective was disseminated to 182 specialists in the
NGOs trained by the project.

Main outcomes of the GEM:

· The GEM was institutionalized as a regular practice within the management structure of private firms,
  public sector entities and NGOs. This process benefits the 170,000 employees working in the 40 firms
  already operating with a gender equity approach; this number has increased with the third promotion of
  17 firms that received the "GEM seal" in December 2006;

· The GEM provides equal access to career development and opportunities for men and women in
  participating firms. As reported by surveyed firms in the ICR workshop, benefits include: improved
  organizational climate, better internal communication, more women in senior positions, increased
  productivity and labor stability;

· The Federal Government has integrated the GEM as a regular practice into the Professional Service Law,
  regulating career development in the public sector. The Secretaría de la Función Pública is in charge of
  this process involving the whole federal sector;

· The GEM introduced gender equity as an important dimension in corporate responsibility of the private
  sector in Mexico and may serve as a first step to contribute to the enhancement of labor practices.
  INMUJERES will pursue this goal by continuing to execute the GEM; 50 new firms are expected to
  obtain the seal in 2006.

Beyond introducing gender equity in the access to resources and opportunities for men and women, the LIL
generated unexpected outcomes such as a rebirth in community life and civic participation; the development
of networks and synergies among private sector firms; the establishment of a program to institutionalize
gender equity in the public sector; and civic engagement in communities as a result of women
empowerment.

The LIL achieved these objectives by developing, testing and mainstreaming new methodologies and tools,
which are already being replicated. By preparing a gender-sensitive methodology and targeting selected
community organizations, in specific cities, with technical assistance and training, the LIL was able to
improve equitable access to government-supported income generation programs. Similarly, the design and
implementation of the CONVIVE Model, which included the funding of CSO initiatives, has contributed to
the enhancement of community life. The fact that the GEM was the result of a participatory process and
has a low cost for firms, facilitated ownership and institutionalization. Therefore, it succeeded in reducing
gender disparities in treatment, access, and opportunity for career development at the work place. These
methodologies and tools proved to be technically solid as evaluated by the Project's monitoring and
evaluation system (M&E), the ICR beneficiaries' surveys and the stakeholders' workshops implemented as
part of the Project's closing process. It is worth noting that the two Project's models were executed in a
period of three years with an investment of only $ 3.1 million, which is an indication of the high yields
gender equity can achieve. The executing agency, INMUJERES, has adopted these methodologies as part
of its own policies and/or as accredited tools to be integrated into public programs in other federal agencies.




                                                     - 11 -

Specifically, the LIL Project promoted five major transformations in Mexico's gender policies and gender
equity promotion:
(i) Validation and endorsement of a new gender mainstreaming approach involving both men and women in
     the pursuit of equity in gender interactions and in access to resources and opportunities;
(ii) Access to methodologies that address the main institutional obstacles that limit equal opportunities for
     female producers in obtaining financial aid for the execution of income generating projects;
(iii) The establishment of formal partnership mechanisms between the public sector and civic society
     organizations to address, in their own terms, inequity in gender issues and stereotypes in their
     communities;
(iv) The engagement of the private sector to incorporate gender equity in their labor policies and practices
     through a certification process to gain the gender equity seal accrediting their efforts to this aim; and
(v) Community empowerment as a tool to governance enhancement, by delegating directly to CSOs
     (including community-based organizations) the selection, execution and monitoring of actions to
     address gender equity issues and the improvement of community life.

a. Introducing gender equity in access to resources and economic opportunities

Improved gender equity in access to resources and economic opportunities was been achieved by: (i)
improving women's capacity to reach and obtain support from government-financed income generation
programs; (ii) making women's productive projects more sustainable through technical assistance; and (iii)
empowering women by promoting and enhancing female leadership. The elaboration and testing of a
capacity-building methodology to incorporate a gender approach into existing technical assistance
organizations, field trainers and NGOs proved to be very effective in achieving these goals.

Access to financial assistance. As shown in Annex 1, the Project increased women's participation in
FONAES by 59% in the project sample identified in the areas intervened by the LIL (the original target
was 15%). Additionally, the LIL increased the access of women's productive groups to other sources of
funding such as SEDESOL or regional funds in the Project's intervention areas; for example, of 21
organizations that requested financial aid from sources other than FONAES, 43% were granted funding.

Engendered technical assistance. The LIL provided women's productive groups with access to technical
assistance, which contributed to the sustainability of their productive projects. According to the census
implemented by the M&E, of the 114 women's productive groups that received assistance under the
Project, only 14% had previously received technical assistance. Likewise, of the 100 women's productive
groups that received financial aid before the LIL, only 37% were functioning. These results demonstrate
that financial aid alone does not guarantee the sustainability of productive projects. Projects that are
non-functioning due to a lack of technical assistance are a burden that increases women's financial
vulnerability. With the LIL, 117 groups comprised of 1,165 women and 86 men benefited from technical
assistance. Additionally, the majority of these groups (85%) prepared productive projects eligible to receive
aid from financing organizations. The quality of this technical assistance was rated 4.6 in a scale of 1 to 5
in the beneficiaries' survey.

Women Empowerment. In the M&E surveys, women reported that by incorporating a gender approach, the
technical assistance increased their participation in decision-making, gave them more equitable status and
empowerment in their families and communities, and enhanced their self-esteem. Table 1 shows the main
results of the M&E group surveys on the quality and impact of the technical assistance. These outcomes
were achieved due to the new technical assistance approach developed by the LIL, which addresses
women's needs, taking into account their points of view and constraints to obtain financial aid attributed to
gender roles. For example, technical assistance was provided taking into account women's schedules,


                                                     - 12 -

facilitating them to       receive support from their families. Therefore, they could organize their new
responsibilities to be compatible with their household chores. Also, the technical assistance's participatory
approach made women aware of and value the knowledge they already had about productive activities; it
helped them to develop equal, rather than hierarchical relationships with the trainers and encouraged them
to make their own decisions about technical assistance needs and the design and scope of their project.
This type of technical assistance that consistently addressed issues that women's organizations face
frequently, and worked with them in the planning and elaboration of their productive projects, reinforced
the positive impacts.

  Table 1: Women Groups' Perceptions on the Outcomes of the Project Technical Assistance
    Outcomes on Strengthening Women Outcomes on Empowerment
    Productive Organizations

    Defining and orienting their productive Enhanced women's self-confidence by being
    activity, in the case of new groups.      listened to and included in the training
                                              dynamics.
    Planning activities and identifying their Contributed to women's self-knowledge by
    opportunities and the feasibility of theirstrengthening their skills and knowledge.
    activities.
    Elaborating their project and submitting Made women more aware of the benefits of
    them for financial aid.                   working in a group: company and support.

    Getting ownership of their project        Started a redefinition process of their gender
                                              role.

    Strengthening their productive process.   Strengthen women's bargaining position within
                                              the household.

    Identifying and defining their needs and Strengthen women's economic autonomy.
    their projects' feasibility.

Source: Generosidad Lessons Learnt Report "Promoviendo la Equida de Género en las Comunidades" El Modelo
CONVIVE." Draft. 2005.

b. Promoting gender equity in community life and the workplace

The development objective of promoting gender equity in community life and the workplace has been
achieved through the successful results of the CONVIVE Model and the Gender Equity Model (GEM).
These two models promoted equity between men and women in access to, and control over resources,
decision-making, participation and power. By supporting gender equality, these models contributed to a
peaceful coexistence between men and women and/or fostered a stronger sense of community and an
improved labor environment. Below is a description of the outcomes of each model.

The CONVIVE Model:

The CONVIVE Model has three main instruments: (i) leadership training; (ii) technical assistance to
women's organizations to improve their access to financial resources; and (iii) grants for CSOs to directly
design and execute subprojects to promote gender equity (the CONVIVE Program). These instruments
were combined in various ways to assess their effectiveness; a combination of the three was tested in 15
selected cities called "Convive Cities." These cities were located in eight states with different cultural and



                                                     - 13 -

socioeconomic backgrounds, selected for their importance in poverty alleviation with a gender perspective
by using a "gender index" based on poverty levels, percentage of women-heads of households, access to
basic services, and men migration.

Through the CONVIVE Program 69 community-based projects were carried out by an equal number of
community-based organizations comprising 1,410 members, in 35 cities in Mexico; 32 of these CSOs
received leadership training with a gender perspective. Overall, the CONVIVE Model benefited about
10,000 persons, including direct and indirect beneficiaries.

To evaluate the outcomes of this Program, the Project's M&E team conducted a qualitative evaluation
based on beneficiaries' perceptions about the Program impact on themselves, their organizations and their
communities. The M&E team interviewed CSOs in 64 localities, including 8 CONVIVE cities, in which
leadership training was also provided. The interviews indicated that the Model has had significant impacts
on the project executors, the direct beneficiaries and their communities. The executors, of whom more than
two thirds were women, declared that managing their projects gave them new skills and knowledge on
resource management, decision-making, teamwork and leadership; these gains also had an impact on their
self-esteem and made them feel more empowered. Additionally, they reported improvements in their
relationships with their families and their communities.

The CSOs received grant resources and technical assistance throughout implementation, to ensure solid
project outcomes and broad benefits, building the necessary consensus within communities about the
Model's approach. The CONVIVE Program strengthened the CSO's capacity to mobilize resources,
formulate and articulate their projects, and to create a forum for public debate on gender equity and
violence related to inequality; CSOs reported a greater effectiveness as partners for promoting gender
equity that reached other community actors. There are examples of local authorities actively adopting
CONVIVE projects in their own activities (see below.) As a result, CSOs received higher recognition from
their communities, which was an incentive to continue working as an organization, improving personal and
community life.

The CONVIVE Program also had positive effects on the communities in which it was implemented because
it emerged from local needs and perspectives. The variety of projects conducted exemplifies the richness of
the cultural and social capital existing in small cities. Project goals included: strengthening the cultural and
educational activities of communities, promotion of gender awareness, training centers for handicapped
people and youth, and environmental initiatives, among others. CONVIVE helped to mobilize local
capacities, contributing to the promotion of peaceful co-existance and respect for the dignity of men and
women within communities. The Program demonstrated the value of a bottom-up approach in which each
organization decided how to address gender inequality issues and related problems, generating a conscious
recognition of the benefits of minimizing gender disparities and related violence.

The M&E survey conducted with a sample of 30 project executors and the consultations carried out under
the ICR beneficiaries surveys and stakeholders workshop that were part of the closing process, confirmed
these positive effects. According to the ICR beneficiaries' survey, the CONVIVE projects' impact on their
organizations, families and communities ranged from good to excellent, (see Chart 1). More than half of
the beneficiaries (58%) identified a positive change in the attitudes towards gender by both men and women
during and after the execution of the project, and 20% also reported positive changes in the attitudes of
municipal authorities. In addition, 14 CSOs declared their interest in continuing to work on gender issues.
The stakeholders consulted agreed that the CONVIVE Program has had positive impacts, and
recommended an extensive dissemination of this experience and to promote replication by other agencies.




                                                      - 14 -

                                                   Chart 1

                                  Beneficiaries' Perceptions on Positives
                                    Changes in the Attitudes of CONVIVE
                                        Beneficiaries & Stakeholders

                                                Others
                                                 17%                 Men
                                                                     25%



                                   None
                                   17%




                                     Municipal
                                     Authorities                        Women
                                        17%                               24%




                         Source: ICR Beneficiaries Survey (Sample of 26 Organizations)



The Gender Equity Model (GEM):

The GEM is an integrated process for firms who choose to establish gender equity in the labor place
comprising four main steps: (i) diagnosis; (ii) training; (iii) auditing; and (iv) evaluation. This entire
process has been completed in forty firms, including some of the most important enterprises and financial
institutions in Mexico, benefiting approximately 170,000 employees with gender equity policies. Seventeen
more firms received the Gender Equity Seal in December 2005 and will be evaluated in 2006.

All of the GEM organizations now have a gender equity policy comprising actions in four critical areas: (i)
staff recruitment; (ii) staff training; (iii) career development opportunities; and (iv) mechanisms for
addressing sexual harassment. Most firms have established specific units to implant the model and
monitoring systems to assess progress. In order to be accredited with the gender equity seal, each firm had
to conduct several actions to address gender equity issues identified during their self-diagnostic phase. This
process includes training to address identified weaknesses, a pre-auditing test and auditing by an
independent Certification Firm.

Table 2 shows the actions taken to promote gender equity on the basis of identified issues in each firm, the
majority of the firms focused on promoting balance between family and work, recruitment free of gender
bias and equity in training and carrier development for men and women.




                                                     - 15 -

Table 2 Gender Actions under the GEM
      Actions Carried Out To Promote Gender Equity in The               No. of Actions     No. of Orga-
                             Workplace                                                       nizations
1. Promote balance between family and work-life.                               31                22
2. Recruitment and selection of personnel.                                     32                24
3. Promote professional training and development.                              22                16
4. Behavior gender training / awareness and information                        20                16
dissemination.
5. Improve physical conditions in the workplace.                               16                12
6. Process to prevent and address sexual harassment.                           16                14
7. Correct problems in occupational gender disparity.                          12                12
8. Increase the number of women in senior positions and reduce salary           7                 7
disparity.
Source: Generosidad Lessons Learnt Report "Experiencias en la Promoción de la Equidad de Género." Draft.
2005.

The M&E system reported the following improvements in the performance of firms after implementation of
the GEM (i) improvement of the organizational climate and labor environment; (ii) stronger human capital
and reduced labor turn-over; (iii) more women in decision-making positions and better development
opportunities for women; and (iv) improved public image. The beneficiaries' survey carried out during the
ICR Workshop, confirmed these positive outcomes (see Chart 2). According to the M&E and the
beneficiary survey, male and female employees reported that the GEM has had positive impacts on their
lives and careers. They stated that the training in gender awareness gave them better understanding of their
differences and rights, and enhanced their capacity to better relate to their peers. The beneficiaries also
reported that the GEM has had positive effects on their families because of a better work-life balance,
family benefits provided to fathers, and a new perspective of male roles that had a positive effect on their
families.

Additional unforseen outcomes are: (i) the establishment of a network of firms to exchange views and
progress in implementing the GEM and to address emerging difficulties; (ii) the preparation of special
studies to better address identified issues; (iii) the recognition of the gender units as valued firms's
members; and (iv) the recognition received has been an incentive to continue promoting gender equity.




                                                     - 16 -

                                           Chart 2 GEM Report

                               Reported Changes From Applying the GEM
                                         Reduced
                       Increased laborseggregation     Others       Improved
                                           3%            9%
                           stability                              organizational

                             4%                                      climate

                 Reduced the                                          31%

                  wage gap
                      5%


                Eliminated
               discrimination
                  against
                 pregnant
                  women        Increased                               Improved
                     8%       productivity                              internal
                                    8%                             communication
                                       More women in                     23%
                                           senior
                                          positions
                                             9%




                      Source: ICR Beneficiaries Survey (Sample of 26 Organizations).


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I. Institutionalization of a Gender Approach in Poverty-alleviation Programs

(a) Capacity-building and Studies

(i) Design and implementation of awareness raising seminars and workshops

To enhance the capacity of INMUJERES staff in mainstreaming gender, the Pilot provided training
workshops in 2002 ­ 2003 on the design, implementation and evaluation of integrating a gender perspective
into projects. In accordance with the M&E system, 66% of INMUJERES staff took part in the training;
this staff rated positively the quality of the training in terms of the material presented, the expositors
competence, and relevance on the subject. Based on this positive experience, INMUJERES decided to
integrate this program into its own training unit, rather than using consultants, to complete the 100%
training goal with their own funds. Through this subcomponent, the Project brought international
expositors to share with INMUJERES staff their experiences about mainstreaming gender in development
projects, and a gender perspective that incorporates both men and women. This perspective has become the
standard in INMUJERES that has been promoting it to other federal, state and municipal institutions.




                                                    - 17 -

(ii) Conduct studies on the living conditions of women

The LIL conducted four main studies on the living conditions of women: (i) a socioeconomic and
demographic analysis on women's living conditions in the 32 states in Mexico to select the project's
intervention areas (8 states, 53 cities and 84 localities were chosen) focusing on indicators such as
unsatisfied basic needs, income level, human capital, assets, female heads-of-households, male migration
and ethnicity of the families; (ii) a Participatory Social Diagnostic carried out in the selected areas, which
consisted of a gender perspective survey of 1,265 households, 16 semi-structured interviews with key
actors (e.g. municipal authorities, leaders, households heads) and 8 focus groups with potential
beneficiaries of the project; (iii) research in 84 localities in eight states among 272 women's organizations
to identify constrains to access to financing; and (iv) a diagnostic of labor conditions from a gender equity
perspective in twenty private firms to design the GEM. Additionally, several other studies were
implemented to support the execution of components, such as an assessment on technical assistance quality,
a media assessment to better promote gender equity; and a consultation among key stakeholders to validate
the GEM.

(iii) Implement and monitor an evaluation and information system with a gender focus

The LIL project designed its own M&E System with two main objectives; (i) to track execution, goals
achievements and resource use of each component; and (ii) to register the learning process and identify
lessons learned. Although this M&E was initially intended to be incorporated within the general evaluation
process in INMUJERES, the Institute decided to operate it as separate system to simplify the process and
liberate resources for other Project activities. The information system goal was achieved through an
agreement with the National Institute of Geography and Information (INEGI), which helped to integrate a
statistical system with a gender approach, called SISESIM to be posted on their Webpage. This system has
been in operation since 2003.

The M&E strategy operated under a participatory approach to assess the project from the beneficiaries'
perspective through three types of procedures: (i) application of a questionnaire at the beginning of the
activity to assess the basic characteristics of the participants and their expectations; (ii) a questionnaire at
the end of the activity to collect beneficiaries' opinions about the implementation, utility and relevance of
the intervention; and (iii) individual and group interviews with the direct beneficiaries of the three Project's
components to gather their opinions on the utility of the activities and tools, their observed effects,
achievements and constraints. In addition, key actors ­ e.g., trainers, advisors, auditors and operators ­
were also interviewed to complement the learning process assessment. The M&E system conducted 21
studies related to the project execution and the learning process, including the report on lessons learned that
has been published by INMUJERES.

(b) Support the consolidation of INMUJERES to carry out the project objectives

A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created to directly execute the LIL, comprising: (i) a General
Coordinator; (ii) a community development specialist (the CONVIVE Coordinator) to manage this
component jointly with four field operators who provided support to beneficiaries of the program; (iii) a
specialist in certification to be the GEM Coordinator, in charge of the certification process; (iv) an
evaluation expert as the M&E Coordinator; (v) a Financial Management specialist; and (vi) a
Communication Specialist. The Project provided training to the PCU in financial management,
procurement, leadership, gender and development topics, and evaluation, among other matters. The LIL
also contributed with equipment (computers, printers) for the PCU. The direct contact with communities,


                                                      - 18 -

leaders and CSOs created a very positive dynamic in the PCU that enhanced commitment and creativity.

The achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Community-based Gender Development

The Project succesfully promoted community-based actions to improve equity in opportunities for men and
women, peaceful sociability, and respect for the dignity of all social groups, regardless of gender or
ethnicity. A description of the main outputs achieved by this component follows next:

(a) Support to Productive Activities

The actions carried out under this subcomponent promoted more equitable access to financial and
institutional support for the development of sustainable, income-generating projects. The main outputs of
this subcomponent were: (i) the elaboration and execution of a methodology for capacity-building and
technical assistance targeted to selected women's groups comprising either only women only, or both
women and men; and (ii) capacity building of field instructors and NGOs working in technical assistance,
to incorporate a gender perspective in their activities. Technical assistance followed a participatory
approach to address organization issues and specifically, women's constraints to access technical
assistance due to gender roles. This methodology was tested in 2003 and 2004 in 117 productive groups
among a total of 272 groups identified in 54 localities in eight states in Mexico. This sample was designed
to test the process under a variety of geographic, socioeconomic, cultural and ethnic conditions, in order to
make the outcomes more relevant for replication purposes. To select the localities and productive groups to
be assisted, the LIL carried out a census of productive groups featuring their main characteristics in 71
localities in the eight states collecting socioeconomic data of the population living in these cities to
elaborate an indicator of unsatisfied basic needs. Only those localities with high or very high levels of
unsatisfied basic needs were selected to receive technical assistance. In addition, the Project reached an
agreement with FONAES, a national financial institution of small productive projects, to facilitate the
access of project beneficiaries to credit. Although it was not a project's objective, 43 indigenous groups
(equivalent to 37% of the total groups assisted) living in 19 of the 53 selected localities under the Project,
received technical assistance; the Project incorporated an indigenous specialist to specifically attend these
groups with a culturally compatible strategy (see Table 3.)

Each group received the support of one or two instructors and/or technicians who provided advice,
guidance and support in the economic diagnostic and design of productive project profiles, and technical
assistance to fulfill the requirements to obtain financing from FONAES and other sources of financing. As
a result of testing this methodology, 100 groups were capable of preparing a productive project, of which
60 applied for financial aid; 39 from FONAES, and 21 from other government programs. As compared to
before project intervention, when only a few groups received technical assistance, the project made a
substantial difference. Taking into account the projects in the sample, the number of groups able to prepare
a productive project grew 127% in these localities. Similarly, of the groups that received technical
assistance, 22 have already received financing and 20 were on a waiting list.




                                                     - 19 -

Table 3: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Main Features
 State             Total        Localities   Groups      Groups       Beneficiaries  Indigenous
                                Served       Identified  Assisted                    groups
 Campeche              29           6            28         15             158              4
 Chihuahua             25           5            18          8              77              3
 Hidalgo               20           5            19         10             145
 Oaxaca                41           7            25         24             316             17
 Puebla                55           16           50         24             254              5
 Sinaloa               8            2            7           7              31
 Tlaxcala              34           6            25         13              93
 Yucatan               60           7            39         16             177             13
 TOTAL                272           54          211         117            1251            43


The main results of these outputs were the improvement in women's access to economic opportunities
because of the skills gained to prepare productive projects, better prepared projects with higher feasibility
to receive financial aid, and women's empowerment.

Additionally, under this subcomponent, 10 capacity building workshops were carried out in 2003 and 2004
to train NGOs and field trainers, including FONAES agents, who were already providing technical
assistance but lacked a gender focus. This training benefited 182 persons of which half were men. The
Project has systematized this technical assistance experience with both productive groups and NGOs in a
handbook that will be published and disseminated to key agencies by INMUJERES shortly. This handbook
is the first of its kind to integrate a gender approach into technical assistance for productive groups in
Mexico. Another output of this subcomponent was the development of an accessible directory and database
for the identification of organizations with the capacity to provide technical assistance to productive
projects with a gender focus.

(b) Implementation of the "CONVIVE" Community Model

(i) Leadership Capacity-building for men and women

The main output of this subcomponent was the elaboration and testing of a capacity-building methodology,
aimed at strengthening women's leadership in their community affairs and creating awareness among men
of alternative leadership styles compatible with gender equity. This methodology was tested in 2003 and
2004 through 15 workshops attended by 434 male and female participants (more than four times the goal
of one hundred) in 15 selected CONVIVE Cities in eight states. In the CONVIVE cities, the technical
assistance activities overlapped with the execution of community-based subprojects under the CONVIVE
Program and leadership training. Thus, some beneficiaries of the technical assistance for productive groups
or executing subprojects were also selected to participate in leadership training to generate synergies and to
test the impact of this kind of training linked to the execution of projects by CSOs. Table 4 summarizes the
training beneficiaries received by city and by gender in the regions with different socioeconomic and
cultural backgrounds.




                                                      - 20 -

Table 4: Regions, States and Cities and Number of Persons Benefited by CONVIVE
 Region          State            CONVIVE City                 Women        Men     Total
North            Chihuahua       Jiménez                         16           6      22
                 Sinaloa         G. Leyva Solano                 23          14      37
                                 Villa Juárez                    20           8      28
Center           Hidalgo         Huejutla de Reyes               11          35      46
                                 Tezontepec de Aldama            32           7      39
                 Tlaxcala        San Pablo del Monte             12           8      20
                 Puebla          Los Reyes de Juárez             25           8      33
                                 Xicotepec                       31          11      42
Southeast        Oaxaca          Miahuatlán de Porfirio          24           3      27
                                 Díaz
                                 Stgo. Pinotepa Nacional         24           4      28
                 Campeche        Champotón                       21           7      28
                                 Escárcega                       16           9      25
                 Yucatán         Oxkutzcab                       15          14      29
                                 Peto                            19          11      30
                                 TOTAL                          289          145     434


The methodology tested consisted of six workshop modules that were carried out in two phases. The first
phase included modules 1 through 4, related to gender consciousness and leadership. Modules 5 and 6
related to leadership methodological tools, were provided in the second phase. This methodology also
followed a participatory approach with diverse group dynamics. A crucial factor in the outcome of these
workshops was the identification and recruitment of leaders and key stakeholders that could disseminate the
benefits of this training. This training benefited 289 women and 145 men; the female audience comprised
women with a variety of economic activities. The methodology proved to be very successful for both
genders, although with different emphasis for men and women. While women felt empowered from the
workshop, men focused more on the leadership techniques. Women also became more aware of their
contributions to community life and about their rights, and felt more confident. The LIL's M&E team
assessed the benefits of these workshops by asking the beneficiaries how they would apply the skills that
they were taught. On a personal level, the beneficiaries reported that they would use these skills to be more
assertive and to better interact in their personal relationships.      They reported that within the families,
siblings in their families are now being raised following the gender equity principles, and leadership skills
are being employed to be more tolerant and communicate better with family members. At the community
level, the beneficiaries reported that they employed these skills to identify community problems of which
they were not previously aware and have shared their knowledge with neighbors and other CSOs. In
addition, this training has resulted in the establishment of leader networks in some communities who are
disseminating the training using the modules' materials, thereby multiplying the learning impact.

Important synergies were achieved when this training was combined with other interventions. In the case of
those who received grants from the CONVIVE Program, beneficiaries reported that this training provided
additional skills that improved their work as organizations. The seven women's productive groups that
received this training also reported this type of positive effect. According to the FONAES' Coordinator for
Productive Development for Women, this training helped women in productive groups harmonize their new
status as entrepreneurs with their traditional roles in their families and communities.

The Project organized a nation-wide Leaders Meeting with 50 outstanding beneficiaries of the leadership



                                                      - 21 -

workshops from all states, to promote an exchange of their experiences in assuming leadership roles and of
execution of gender-based initiatives in their communities. This event benefited the participants in terms of
learning how to deal with the responsibility of being the leaders of their groups and states, and how to reach
a compromise with their families to be absent from home for a few days. The event also gave them the
opportunity to share their experiences and challenges with other groups in a forum in which it was possible
to talk and listen among peers. Moreover, they were able to identify mechanisms and institutions available
to support them. The media covered this workshop, and a presentation made by one of the Project's
beneficiaries was aired on television. The aired presentation featured a midwife from Yucatan, who as a
result of her participation in both the leadership and CONVIVE program became a community leader and
started a campaign on public health in several communities in her municipality. The participants reported
that the workshop was an incentive to continue improving their capacities and working for their
organizations.

The lessons learned from these workshops were integrated into a leaders guide published by INMUJERES,
for community development promotion with a gender perspective, to be distributed among federal
institutions working with communities and CSOs, to incorporate this approach and the tested outreach
methodologies to engage communities. There is also a plan within INMUJERES to broadly distribute this
guide to be used by different agencies interested in carrying out leadership training with a gender approach
at the community level.

(ii) CONVIVE Program

The Project supported 69 community-based projects carried out by CSOs between 2003 and 2004 in 25
cities of the 32 states of Mexico, exceeding the original target of 40 such projects. In contrast to other
public programs, CONVIVE also worked with CSOs that did not have legal status, benefiting grass-root
organizations that do not usually have access to this type of government program. To ensure national
coverage of CONVIVE, the Project selected medium-size cities that met the criteria of the "gender index"
designed for this purpose using as inputs small cities with the highest population in their range with high or
very high levels of unsatisfied basic needs; a high percentage of women as household-heads; and high rates
of male migration. Following this criteria 53 cities, with an average of 25,000 inhabitants, were selected to
be included in the call for CONVIVE proposals. All but three of these 53 cities submitted a proposal; the
average was 3.7 proposals per city for a total of 198 proposals. A selection committee, independent from
INMUJERES, including relevant individulas from the private sector, public sector, NGOs and academia,
approved 70 of the submitted proposals; all subprojects were successfully executed except for one that
faced organizational difficulties and returned the grant. Beneficiaries were CSOs comprised predominantly
of women; eight of them were women only, and in 46, women were the majority. Thus, the number of
female participants in the CONVIVE Program was much higher than those of men: 958 and 452
respectively. Most of these CSOs were community based organizations without legal status (47), and those
with legal status (23) were either, NGOs, social organizations, or organizations promoted by a local
authority. The Project transferred a total of US$ 600,000 to these organizations, through grants of US$
10,000 or less, each.

As established in the grant selection requirements, the 70 selected projects aimed at enhancing community
life and peaceful life-sharing and to foster tolerance in community life. The activities carried out by these
projects can be categorized into eight groups: (i) strengthening of education and cultural life; (ii) gender
awareness and equity promotion; (iii) natural resources conservation and environmental protection; (iv)
quality enhancement of productive activities; (v) cultural activities to alert about social problems, namely
violence; (vi) small infrastructure for community use (child-care, for instance); (vii) sport activities; and
(viii) recreation activities. Almost half of these projects (49%) presented an explicit gender approach,


                                                    - 22 -

which was integrated into human rights promotion and violence prevention. Some of these projects included
indigenous populations among the organizers and/or the beneficiaries, although this was not an intended
Project's outcome; and an Indigenous Peoples Specialists joined the team to assist these organizations. All
projects incorporated a gender perspective in the design process and during implementation.

The success of the CONVIVE Program can be attributed to its capacity to promote women's empowerment
while engaging men in the process, thus resulting in better balanced gender relationships; it helped foster a
type of leadership in which men and women seek common goals and strengthened organizations able to lead
community development. The success of these community-based projects has attracted additional support
allowing for expansion of scope and/or size and has gained recognition beyond direct beneficiaries. From
this perspective, three CONVIVE projects should receive special mention due to their significant impact on
the organization members and on their communities.

Youth improving community environment: A community-based group in the municipality of Oxkutzcab,
Yucatan, with a young female leader, comprising           twenty young men and women, introduced and
implemented an innovative recycling process in their municipality. Three members of the organization
designed and produced a machine to convert plastic waste into a material that can be used to cover floors;
with this, the group upgraded the dirt floors of several poor dwellings in several communities of
Oxkutzcab. This organization, Huellas Mayas, continues working and has gained the recognition of
municipal and state authorities. As a result of these efforts, its female leader received the State Prize of
Maya Youth in 2004 and the National Prize of Indigenous Youth in 2005. Through an exchange of
experiences with Honduras, a CDD project in that country has adopted this technique in their own activities
to clean tourist areas. During a second phase of the project, this CSO worked with high-school students of
selected communities of Oxkutzcab in the construction of garden facilities using the same recycled material
as a way to provide green areas and environmental awareness at their schools; on the basis of its own
experience, Huellas de Yucatan has helped to improve interaction betwen high-school girls and boys and
raise consciousness about gender equity.

Education and culture as a vehicle of gender equity: A CSO in Guasave, Sinaloa, mainly integrated by
women, executed a project that has had a positive impact on community life. The organization identified as
a priority the creation of a School of Arts and Skills to provide opportunities for young people as a way to
address youth violence. Since the completion of the project, the school has become a community center that
provides different services to girls and boys in the community and has received additional assistance from
different government agencies. For example, the Secretary of Education provided computers and a satellite
antenna for Internet; the Secretary of Labor financed the instructors for vocational courses; and the
Secretary of Social Development is executing eight HABITAT projects, intended to improve community
life, using the school facilities.

Institutionalization of Gender Equity in Local Government. The project was carried out by a women's
group called "Mujeres Tacambarenses" in Tacámbaro, Michoacán. This organization incorporated women
from different social and political backgrounds unifying the various political parties in a common goal to
create a women's affairs office in the municipal government. As a result of this initiative, the Municipality
of Tacámbaro has introduced the Women's Unit into the municipal structure and has requested the
women's group to manage it; this initiative has been successfully maintained despite changes in political
parties. The state government is providing support to this initiative and similar actions are in the process in
other municipalities in Michoacán.

In year 2005, the Project provided technical assistance and additional financial support to 24 CSOs to
ensure their sustainability as an organization and/or continuity of their projects. This technical assistance


                                                    - 23 -

was tailored to the different needs of the CSOs; thus, some of them were included in workshops for gender
sensitivity, and others were provided with an advisor for institutional strengthening or to address
operational issues. In addition, the Project responded to the request of 11 CSOs to receive assistance in
acquiring legal status so as to benefit from other sources of funding. The Project has produced a video
recounting these experiences. Each of the participating CSOs received a copy of the video to see their
achievements documented, to learn from the experiences of the other organizations and to possibly use it as
a promotional tool to obtain additional resources. This video was also distributed to other public agencies
to disseminate the lessons and achievements of the CONVIVE Model. INMUJERES has documented the
experiences of the CONVIVE Model in the book: "CONVIVE, community experiences of organized
women," which describes the positive changes in the lives of women and their communities generated by
the CONVIVE Model.

Achievement of this component, taking into consideration its outputs, community benefits and externalities
brought about by the CONVIVE Model, is rated as highly satisfactory.

Component III. Gender Awareness

(a) Promotional Campaign of GENEROSIDAD

This subcomponent was designed to broadly disseminate the general objectives and goals of the Project
among governmental institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public. A first output of this
subcomponent was the Project's launching event in December 2002 with participants from both the public
and private sector and media coverage. Second, the Project created its own logo and the GEM Seal design
and adopted INMUJERES' slogan "men and women, same rights, same opportunities." In addition, the
Project produced and distributed publicity materials to disseminate these two programs, including tote
bags, planners, mouse-pads, pins, buttons, key-chains, etc. Finally, INMUJERES publicized the GEM in
specialized journals in Mexico targeting the private sector. Project achievements were also presented in
several presidential events.

(b) Media Campaigns

To raise the general population's awareness about the influences of gender roles, the Project produced and
disseminated eight types of posters and two types of coloring books for children to introduce gender equity
in their education. The Project made agreements with DICONSA and LICONSA ­ two major public sector
distributors in Mexico ­ to deliver the posters and booklets all over the country. The National Indigenous
Commission (CDI) supported CONVIVE dissemination through its own radio stations.

(c) Certification

The Project was successful in designing, disseminating and promoting among the public and private sector
organizations a Gender Equity Model (GEM) intended to promote equal opportunities between men and
women in access to employment, reduction in wage-gap, participation in training, professional development
and participation in decision-making. The GEM, consists of a management system that can be voluntarily
adopted by public or private firms to confirm their commitment to gender equity in the workplace. The
GEM assists the firms in the process of reviewing their policies and practices in gender equity, and in
re-organizing and defining mechanisms and corrective measures that guarantee equal work conditions for
men and women. Between 2003 and 2004, 20 organizations successfully adopeted the GEM; 20 more
received the GEM Seal between 2004-2005; additionally, 17 firms completed the process by December
2005. The first 40 certified firms employ around 170,000 persons (47% women and 53% men), and belong


                                                   - 24 -

to different economic activities such as banking and finance, insurance, tourism, technology,
manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, and commerce. The majority, 66% of the participants, come from the
private sector including transnational and domestic firms; 33% are from federal and state organizations; the
remaining are NGOs. A third of the private firms have more than 500 employees and two of them employ
more than 30,000 persons each.

The design of the GEM involved an array of different activities, beginning with the definition and validation
of "gender equity." This definition was primarily based on the analysis of a sample of 20 private firms that
volunteered their own information to contribute to the definition, which was then refined and validated
through consultation with relevant public figures and gender experts. The Project designed all instruments
and processes for the GEM since there were no previous examples in LAC, including: (i) a diagnostic of 20
firms to identify the model's requirements and to define gender equity indicators; (ii) a consultation process
through in-depth interviews with experts to agree on a standard of gender equity at the workplace; (iii)
preparation of an implementation guide of the GEM for the firms; (iv) the design of the evaluation process
that defined the steps to verify the implementation of the GEM and to grant the distinction; (v) instruments
of the plan to support the implementation of the GEM consisting of a self-assessment methodology, gender
alertness workshops design and materials; (vi) the hiring and training of an auditing firm to evaluate,
verify, and certify whether the firms have fulfilled the requirements to receive the GEM Seal; (vii) the
evaluation process to grant the GEM SEAL by a private certification firm; and (viii) the guidelines and
rules for an independent evaluation committee.

Actual implementation was a time-consuming process that lasted around two years, in which the Project
team worked jointly with the beneficiaries to achieve success. It began by identifying the firms eligible to
participate in the GEM, and approaching them to explain the model. The Project also publicized the GEM
in different publications and on the Internet. Invitations were sent to 400 firms and the Project staff visited
all the firms that expressed interest in adopting the GEM. The Project worked with 20 firms in 2003-2004
and 20 more in 2005, along each one of the GEM's steps: (i) an initial diagnostic; (ii) constant support and
follow-up during implementation of the GEM; (iii) pre-auditing, and (iv) auditing by an independent
certification firm, either to receive the seal or to continue working to reach standards. By the closing date in
December 2005, a total of 57 private firms and public organizations have received the GEM Seal. The
Decision Committee established in INMUJERES grants the GEM seal upon the evaluations and
recommendations by the certification firm. The seal is valid for two years with a verification to be carried
out one year after the seal was granted by the auditing firm, to guarantee that the firm is still complying
with the requirements of the GEM.

The GEM has had very positive effects as reported by a survey carried out by the M&E team and
corroborated during the ICR Closing Workshop with firms that have already adopted it. The firms declared
that the implementation of the GEM has helped them to: (i) institutionalize a gender equity policy; (ii)
identify and address their gender equity issues; (iii) assess the status of the organization and its policies on
gender equity; (iv) establish a structure to organize, systematize and document the process; (v) increase
awareness and engage the staff on gender equity (vi) establish actions and mechanisms to address needs of
women and men for their professional and personal development in equal conditions; (vii) promote a
climate of respect; (viii) improve communication mechanisms; (ix) integrate inclusion and diversity policies
in their organizations' quality management systems; (x) provide better security and protection to the
personnel, and (xi) improve their team work.

An important outcome that has contributed to the instiutionalization of the GEM is that the Secretariat of
Public Function has integrated the GEM into the Federal Law of Professional Service, which is mandatory
for the entire federal public sector, to promote equal opportunities between men and women in recruitment,


                                                       - 25 -

career development opportunities, compensation and retention. In addition, the international dissemination
of the GEM and its results has generated requests to replicate the model overseas by the Council of
Ministries of Women of Central America (COMCA) comprised of the governments of Guatemala,
Honduras, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Nicaragua. The Ministry of Women Affairs in Chile has also
invited INMUJERES to present the GEM at its annual meetings.

Achievement of this component, taking into consideration the impressive outputs and benefits as well as
externalities brought about by the GEM model, is rated as highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

High. The outcomes of the three Project's components described in section 4.2 shows that there has been a
positive impact on gender institutions. The LIL has provided convincing evidence of the success of its
methodologies and tools to mainstream gender in Mexico. The Project's results were particularly beneficial
for INMUJERES, which started its operations almost at the same time as the LIL. Supportive arguments
are presented below:

a. The Project was instrumental in establishing new methodologies and tools to promote gender equity in
    communities and in the workplace, and to enhance women's access to economic opportunities. All
    interviewed stakeholders ­ FONAES, NAFIN, Secretary of the Public Function-- agreed that the
    experience with the technical assistance provided to productive organizations, and the methodologies
    prepared and tested by the CONVIVE Model and the GEM Model are highly valuable for ongoing
    policy discussions and future gender equity policies and programs.

b. The CONVIVE Model already serves as a unique national experience on decentralizing decisions and
    resources to grassroots organizations to address gender disparities and violence in communities, while
    empowering women and enhancing their social capital. The work with women in the communities with
    high levels of unsatisfied basic needs, who were given the opportunity to make decisions regarding
    productive activities and technical assistance, has empowered them. Evidence from the M&E and
    Project closing evaluations documents the increase of women participation in decision-making, more
    equitable status of women in the family and the community, and enhanced self-esteem. In addition,
    combining the CONVIVE Program with leadership training, has had three main impacts: (i)
    strengthened capacity of CSOs and grassroots organizations to mainstream gender into their future
    projects; (ii) built up of social capital in CONVIVE Cities as a result of community participation in
    the CONVIVE Program, including in many cases local authorities; and (iii) methodologically, it
    demonstrated the importance of strengthening leadership capacity as a factor of success in CDD
    projects. The value of the CONVIVE Program as an input for policies in governance and gender
    equality has been clearly demonstrated, although additional arrangements have to be designed and
    implemented to scale up.

c. The GEM model was very successful in Mexico and has been viewed with interest by other countries.
    Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua have requested support to replicate the GEM; Chile has also
    expressed its interest. This interest has opened an opportunity for the GoM to initiate the process for



                                                   - 26 -

    converting the GEM into an International Workshop Agreement (IWA), which is an intermediate step
    prior to becoming an international norm.

d. In Mexico the GoM has institutionalized the GEM as a normative instrument on gender policies for the
    Federal Government by delegating to INMUJERES the faculty to rule on this matter. The
    establishment of the GEM in the Professional Service Law within the Secretariat of the Public, to
    guarantee gender equity in federal agencies will have long-term impact on the effectiveness of human
    resource management. INMUJERES has housed the GEM to institutionalize the model as one of its
    regular functions to continue building partnerships with the private sector to adopt gender equity in
    labor practices which has been both innovative and successful.

e. The Project helped strengthen the capacity of INMUJERES to integrate and make operational the
    project's gender approach focusing on gender relations and balance between men and women rather
    than on women only in its policies and programs. In addition, the Institute has gained knowledge and
    experience from the two Project's models for designing innovative interventions through partnerships
    with communities and the private sector that combine gender equity and governance-enhancement
    objectives.

f. INMUJERES' dissemination of all the instruments developed and implemented under the LIL to other
    agencies will consolidate its role as the leading institution in Mexico to promote gender. It will also
    strengthen federal agencies capacity to plan, manage, implement and monitor gender equity
    interventions. INMUJERES has integrated principles and procedures of the methodologies of
    leadership training into its own training programs. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has
    recommended that new or to-be-revised guidelines of programs aimed at working with CSOs or
    productive groups should integrate the lessons learned from the LIL's methodologies.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Change in National Government: The launch of the Project was seriously affected by the transition phase
between political administrations. Shortly after the loan was negotiated and approved between the World
Bank and the Government of Mexico in June 2000, a new political party won the presidential elections. The
outgoing administration decided to postpone the loan signature until after the new administration took
office. This decision, along with the change in the Project's implementing agency (see below), delayed the
signature of the loan for 16 months. Consequently, the deadline for compliance with effectiveness
conditions had to be extended until April 2002.

Change in Implementing Agency: The administration of President Vicente Fox, who took office on
December 1st, 2000, decided to change the Project's implementing agency from SEDESOL to
INMUJERES, which was created by the new government on March, 2001. This new agency was
established as a decentralized entity directly under the President Office, which gave it a strong position
within the new government. Since INMUJERES's functions were compatible with the Project's objectives
and components, they did not change. However, they had to be adapted to the structure of this new agency.
Moreover, it was necessary to modify the Project's implementation period from the original schedule, to
January 2002 through December 2004.



                                                     - 27 -

Sources of Funding Change: During the first year of Project implementation, its budget was mistakenly
classified as "federal budget" rather than "external loan." This confusion, which took around six months to
be resolved, delayed Project execution because it was not possible to have access to the budget. Once this
situation was resolved it did not happen again.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Learning Process while Executing the Project: INMUJERES initiated its operations in March 2001 facing
the responsibility to sign a new project and comply with effectiveness conditions. For a new institution
without previous experience managing World Bank's operations it was a challenge to coordinate
simultaneously a variety of new programs and staff with the actions required to launch the Project. Thus, it
took some time for the agency's medium rank officers to take ownership of the Project and to learn the
World Bank's administrative and financial procedures required to execute the Project. This situation,
together with the above-mentioned budgetary problems, caused delays in execution; as a result, the Project
could not meet its operational target deadlines during the first year-and-a-half. The Project's actions to
provide institutional strengthening to INMUJERES helped to smooth this transition process. Once the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was fully staffed and functional, the Project fulfilled its operational
targets efficiently and effectively. However, due to the initial slow start to implementation, it was necessary
to request a one-year extension to the Project's closing date.

Qualified Human Resource Deployment and Management: The PCU staff, including the Project
Coordinator, was very well qualified and for the most part, it has been with the Project from the beginning.
This helped to speed the learning curve and to create an esprit-de-corp that facilitated the
institutionalization of Project activities. The professionalism of the staff allowed for a very collegial work
environment, which served as an incentive to attract highly qualified consultants and service providers to
design and implement the different Project activities. All these factors contributed to a highly satisfactory
implementation.

Use of Timely and Adequate Technical Assistance: The Project was highly receptive to, and quickly
learned from, the technical assistance provided by the World Bank and NAFIN during the whole Project
lifetime. Given the learning characteristics of the Project, this quick learning proved to be key for
guaranteeing the Project's good performance.

Participatory Monitoring & Evaluation Activities: The monitoring and evaluation activities carried out
provided substantial and timely feedback information on the Project's processes and outcomes to the PCU.
The fact that the M&E system followed a participatory approach enhanced the effectiveness of this
feedback by transmitting the opinions of beneficiaries and frontline providers to the Project's direct
executors and to higher decision-making levels.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the Project, as estimated in the PAD, was US $3.88 million, of which US $3.06 million
(79 percent) was funded by the World Bank's loan, US $0.71 million (18 percent) through the National
Treasury, and the remaining US$0.11 through the CONVIVE communities. By closing date on December
2005, 99% of the loan had been already disbursed. The GoM requested through NAFIN, the Project's
financial intermediary, a grace period, granted by the World Bank, to extend disbursement until April
2006. However, on March 15, 2006 the last disbursement was issued to fully use the loan.




                                                     - 28 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Highly Likely. The sustainability of the Project is rated as highly likely because of the quality of the
sustainability program INMUJERES has sent to the World Bank, which consists of: (a) institutionalization
of main policies, instruments and programs; (b) support provided to CSOs under the Project to continue
executing key Project activities and/or have access to funding from other programs; and (c) the
comprehensive integration of the two models processes and methodologies as learning instruments ready for
replication. Currently, Inmujeres has already established a unit to continue implementing the GEM
with its own federal budget. CONVIVE continues operating through the created community
organizations, which in most cases have received additional financial aid. Moreover, the Mexican
Government has requested the Bank to support a new project to continue promoting gender
equity at the community level through small grants, technical assistance and leadership training,
building on the experience of the CONVIVE Model.

a. Institutionalization. In regard to institutionalization, there are already concrete agreements in place that
    demonstrate that the GoM and INMUJERES have political and institutional ownership of the Project
    outputs, namely: (i) The Public Function Secretariat has integrated the principles of the Gender Equity
    Model into the Professional Service Law, which guarantees equal opportunities in accessing the public
    sector based on professional merits for both genders and is mandatory for federal institutions; (ii)
    INMUJERES has requested the Secretary of Finance (SHCP) that all federal programs that will
    prepare or revise guidelines for community-based programs follow the Project's tested methodologies
    on integrating a gender approach in community-based interventions; and (iii) SHCP has endorsed
    preparation of a new project to promote gender equity at the community level, building upon the
    success of the CONVIVE Program, demonstrating the GoM's commitment to gender equity actions.

b. Sustainability in INMUJERES. INMUJERES is already executing several actions to ensure Project
    sustainability. In relation to the GEM: (i) it has integrated the GEM within it's regular functions and
    has a work program to continue the GEM in 2006, planning to enroll 50 more firms. For this purpose it
    has set up an administrative unit to operate the GEM staffed with the current Project's GEM
    specialists; (ii) it will support the Program to Institutionalize Gender into the Federal Public
    Administration by providing advice and training to federal agencies to integrate gender equity in its
    operations; (iii) given the requests from other countries in the region to replicate the GEM,
    INMUJERES will pursue the task of converting the GEM into an International Workshop Agreement,
    which is an intermediary stage in the process of converting the GEM into an international norm. In the
    case of the CONVIVE Model, INMUJERES has started the following activities: (i) it has provided
    additional technical assistance and funding to the 25 CSOs which have demonstrated the highest
    potential and interest in continuing work in community-based projects with a gender approach; 11
    CSOs have already gained legal status thanks to this support; (ii) the 36 CSOs that already had legal
    status or upgraded their status as a result of the CONVIVE Model, are in the process of obtaining
    federal or other funding; (iii) it has designed a dissemination strategy for all the methodologies prepared
    and tested under the community-based component to be distributed among federal, state and municipal
    agencies including: (a) the Technical Assistance Handbook with a gender perspective; (b) the
    Guidelines for the Social Community Promoter; (c) the book: Community Experiences of Organized
    Women under CONVIVE and Generosidad Lessons Learned; (d) training methodologies such as
    leadership training have already been incorporated into INMUJERES's training strategy.

c. Learning Instruments. The Project prepared a sustainability plan in which all Project outputs will be
    released to the public. A book based on the lessons learned from the Project prepared by the M&E


                                                      - 29 -

     team has been published in December 2005. In addition, INMUJERES will release three books and a
     handbook of the methodologies and experiences of the CONVIVE Program in 2006. All of the
     Project's follow-up activities already have a budget allocation at INMUJERES, which guarantees their
     financial sustainability.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Section 6.1 already explains the arrangement to transition the Project to regular operations. Specifically
discussed is the integration of the GEM as a regular INMUJERES program and the adoption of the gender
equity program by federal institutions under the Public Function Secretariat.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The World Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project
was satisfactory. The identification process focused on addressing critical gaps and opportunities for
introducing gender equity methodologies into public policies and programs. Preparation was carried out
with broad participation of NGOs and delivered the LIL in a timely manner. The Project's consistency with
the GoM's development priorities and the World Bank's CAS was solid. In addition, the World Bank
acknowledged potential risks with clarity and sought to work out mitigating actions. Technical assistance
introduced state-of-the-art expertise into Project design, with lessons learned from reforms in other
countries, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs. During preparation and appraisal, the
World Bank took into account the adequacy of Project design in all major relevant aspects. Investments in
equipment were focused, narrowed and adapted to proper requirements. Finally, the World Bank, promptly
reviewed and evaluated the transfer of the implementing agency to INMUJERES.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Throughout the execution of the Project, the World Bank's supervision provided technical
support and built a solid partnership with the borrower. There was a high degree of continuity in task
management ­ the same task manager was in place from the beginning of the implementation Project period
until the end of the Project. World Bank technical assistance helped to overcome operational challenges
throughout Project implementation from the start, for instance, by helping INMUJERES to comply with the
loan effectiveness conditions and Project launching; technical assistance was particularly intense during the
first implementation year in order to fully establish the PCU. This support helped the PCU to overcome
the learning curve, as proved by the trend in disbursement growth, the quality of financial
management, which the Financial Specialists rated as highly satisfactory, and the clean audit
reports. Senior officials in NAFIN concurred with the quality of Bank's assistance as confirmed during
interviews carried out during ICR preparation. They stated that the technical assistance provided by World
Bank staff had a positive impact on Project implementation from operational procedures to financial and
social aspects. Over the four years of Project implementation, there were 15 supervision missions, with an
average of 3 missions per year. World Bank teams included specialists in gender and social analysis,
evaluation systems, institutional development, operations processing, financial management and
procurement. External consultants were used to provide support on specific aspects including international
experts on gender mainstreaming who shared their experiences with the PCU and INMUJERES staff. The
World Bank also responded to the reassured commitment and efforts made by the PCU and INMUJERES
to successfully complete its implementation by granting one closing extention to the Project. Finally, the



                                                    - 30 -

World Bank organized, funded and executed two beneficiary workshops to evaluate the GEM and the
CONVIVE Model as part of the closing process, in order to conduct a beneficiaries' survey and to gather
further feedback on the Project's performance. These two events provided a forum for the beneficiaries to
exchange experiences of achievements and challenges. In addition, the Project's stakeholders had the
opportunity to further their knowledge on the Project and its outcomes, and to provide recommendations to
INMUJERES and the World Bank for follow­up of the Project's activities. The participation of
representatives from institutions such as BANSEFI, the Ministry of Economy, FONAES, the Office the
President and municipal authorities in the workshops were very useful to further disseminate Project's
outcomes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during the preparation of the Project was satisfactory. The
Borrower displayed the required level of commitment to Project objectives and adequately addressed the
design of all major aspects. Several studies and consultations were carried out including a major
stakeholders workshop to incorporate civil society and specialists into the Project design. SHCP and
NAFIN participated in Project design and made a firm commitment to securing needed financing and all
other arrangements required to launch the Project. The new Government fully collaborated to make all the
necessary arrangements required to change the implementing agency and sign the loan documents. In
addition, the conditions set forth for effectiveness were resolved in a timely and proper way.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Highly Satisfactory. Government commitment, and institutional ownership were key for the Project
implementation performance. The political support and autonomy granted to INMUJERES gave the Project
leverage to introduce and scale-up gender equity interventions generated by the Project into federal agencies
and link its activities to state women's institutions. One critical factor that contributed to the success of the
Project was the authorization by SHCP, to allow INMUJERES to make direct transfers to CSOs, which is
seldom granted. This permitted CSOs to directly execute their projects by relying on social control,
transparency and due process in using the grants, which promoted ownership. In addition, SHCP and
NAFIN accompanied the PCU during Project implementation, including World Bank missions, and helped
to bridge the gaps between the World Bank and GoM procedures. Lastly, after sorting out the problem of
counterpart funding in the first year of the Project, the Project was always able to count on adequate and
timely funding.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Highly Satisfactory. INMUJERES, and particularly its PCU, satisfactorily overcame the learning period;
loan processing, auditing, procurement, disbursements, agreements and reporting were complied within the
expected time-frame as were all the products and deliverables agreed upon in the annual operation plans.
The Project Coordinator's management style promoted team participation in decision-making. The PCU
established clear job descriptions and accountability frames, which facilitated teamwork between the staff
and counterpart consultants. Regular meetings were held with Project and INMUJERES senior



                                                      - 31 -

management to address issues arising during implementation. Difficult tasks were addressed creatively; for
instance to identify mechanisms and obtaining SHCP's endorsement to directly provide transfers to the
grass-root organizations without legal status. The institutional arrangements and accountability
mechanisms designed by INMUJERES to transfer funds to the CSOs proved to be very successful; there
were no default cases, mismanagement or incomplete tasks arising from these organizations. Despite the
lack of previous experiences in forging partnerships with private firms, the Project was very successful in
convening a substantial number of firms to participate in the Gender Equity Model and creating lasting
partnerships with them.

External financial audits confirmed the appropriate use and application of loan funds, as well as the
satisfactory implementation of the audit recommendations from the World Bank's financial specialist.
Review of procurement processes carried out during Project implementation showed satisfactory results.
Legal covenants were respected and implemented. An independent procurement consultant carried out a
review of subprojects accounts and corroborated they were in compliance with World Bank's regulations.
The Project's Finance Specialist rated the Project's financial execution as highly satisfactory during the last
year of implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Highly Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

As a learning and innovation loan, the Project contributed to the enrichment of Mexico's gender work. The
project developed methodological elements that were very useful in the discussions on how to mainstream
gender equity into public policies in the region; the two models tested developed a set of instruments,
manuals, methods and processing that can be easily adapted and replicated in other countries. This process
also contributes to the Bank's knowledge in promoting gender equity as a factor of success in development
policy, as explained below:

a. The CONVIVE Model showed that incorporating a gender approach can enhance the quality and
    results of CDD interventions, therefore increasing investment payoffs. CONVIVE subprojects, for
    instance, increased investments yields, as measured by assets created and services delivered.

b. The GEM demonstrated that the private sector is willing to incorporate a gender equity approach as a
    means of corporate responsibility that also has positive results within the firms' labor environment.
    Guatemala, Nicaragua and Chile have already requested technical assistance to adopt this model and
    INMUJERES is promoting the GEM to become an IWA, which is a first step to become an
    international norm.

c. These two results indicate that there is an opportunity for the Bank to promote self-standing gender
    equity projects within communities and the private sector with the main objective of creating a new
    approach and the behavioral changes that are required to address gender bias for the establishment of a
    more inclusive development model.


8.1 Technical approach

Gender mainstreaming based on a gender equity approach. The LIL promoted a gender approach that
values and accepts gender differences between men and women and the diverse roles they play in society,
while at the same time combating stereotypes that degrade individuals and hinder the benefits that gender



                                                    - 32 -

collaboration produces. This perspective, as tested by the LIL in different cultural environments, is less
confrontational and therefore more likely to build support for gender equity promotion, as demonstrated by
the success of the Project's two models; the CONVIVE and the GEM. The participation by both men and
women in the identification of gender issues and in the design and implementation of mechanisms and
actions to address them, largely contributed to these models' success.

Social analysis and stakeholders consultation. The preparation of a social analysis, comprising
quantitative and qualitative methods, was very useful in designing the components' instruments, particularly
in selecting the Convive Cities. This proved useful in implemeting the project nation-wide at a low cost and
with a friendly-process for the private sector to incorporate and accept the GEM within their organizational
structures. This analysis and the stakeholder consultations also helped to promote beneficiaries' ownership
and build public legitimacy for the Project. Quantitative and qualitative data also provided a base-line
reference for the establishment of the M&E System and the learning process.

The design of tools and techniques are critical factors to mainstream gender. A significant contribution
of the LIL was the design of methods, instruments, and the training of specialists for the CONVIVE and
the GEM models, as: (i) They comprised training materials with step by step methods and guidelines to
assist communities and firms in pursuing the goal of gender equity; (ii) all of the methods and materials
used in male and female leadership building and the technical assistance with a gender perspective
emphasized consultation and participation, which facilitated the integration of gender equity. In addition,
the beneficiaries' appropriation of this knowledge gave them the opportunity to build their own process for
transforming gender relations while learning from the advice of gender experts. This process has had a
multiplier effect that continues to generate good results.

To achieve concrete results and provide opportunities for replication facilitates gender mainstreaming.
Two conditions are critical for scaling up pilot methodologies: (i) to show positive effects on the areas in
which the methodologies are being applied; and (ii) to be able to replicate these results in different contexts.
Both of these conditions are met by the GEM, which has had positive effects on human resource
management, organizational climate, and integrates the process within the structure of the firms at a
reduced cost. These positive effects have proved to be incentives for additional private firms to embrace
this model. The adoption of the GEM by firms of various sizes, activities and geographical locations,
indicates the great potential for replication of this approach with a minimum of adaptation.

Gender is a quality-enhancement instrument. The Project demonstrated that gender equity is a factor that
can contribute to the quality of a project because it enhances beneficiary performance by focusing on their
own advantages while facilitating collaboration among men and women. For example:

 i. When a gender perspective is integrated into technical assistance for productive projects, it increases
    women's access to productive opportunities, including access to credit, and the sustainability of their
    productive projects. As discussed previously, the gender perspective gives women the confidence and
    ability to decide, negotiate and control how to use the resources to achieve their productive goals. It
    makes women aware of their own knowledge and capacities, developing self-confidence as a factor of
    success.

ii. The combination of training on gender awareness and technical assistance under a gender equity
    perspective proved to be highly favorable for reducing potential conflicts to women's empowerment.
    Women's new responsibilities from carrying out productive activities have the potential to conflict with
    their traditional roles. Training in gender biases provided them with the tools to harmonize and
    negotiate their responsibilities and decisions in these two spheres. Likewise, training male and female



                                                       - 33 -

     leaders reduced tensions and increased understanding between genders.

iii. Integrating a gender approach in community-based interventions benefits both women and their
     organizations. The CONVIVE Model not only promoted the participation of women, it also provided
     support during the project cycle, helping them to respond to execution difficulties and solving conflicts
     within the organization. This process not only empowered women but also encouraged them to broaden
     the scope of activities and to pursueadditional goals.

Technical assistance that is collaborative, participatory, continuous, and covers the entire women
groups' capacity building process proved to be effective in strengthening both women's organizations
and their productive projects. Before the LIL, many women in the project's area, including those who had
credit, did not receive technical assistance and their projects had either low productivity, were
unsustainable, or both, resulting in a burden rather than an alternative. The situation improved when the
Project provided technical assistance tailored to women groups' needs and challenges.

Gender awareness training, combined with leadership training, allows women and men to address power
issues entailed in gender disparities. Because leadership training deals with the exercise of power and
provides skills for human interaction it provides the elements to understand, identify and address gender
inequalities. By enhancing women's self-esteem and potential, leadership training facilitates the process of
women's empowerment and men's understanding of the advantages of this process.

Working with grassroots or community based-organizations on gender has a positive effect on their own
ability and on their communities by strengthening social capital and their capacity to promote
communities to discuss gender inequalities in a peaceful manner. By including organizations without legal
status, the CONVIVE model increased the opportunities for community-based interventions, to address
gender issues from a social perspective that promoted solidarity rather than confrontation, empowering
organizations and community's social capital.

Partnerships with the private sector to mainstream gender equity are feasible when the firms have
options to participate and lead the process of change and receive permanent advice to implement the
model from the Project staff. The GEM followed these two principles and was able to attract an important
number of firms (57 in three years promotion) to participate in the model and earn their accreditation.
These two principles enhanced the firms' ownership of the GEM; they could move ahead at their own pace
and make informed decisions along the process. The firms requested and received constant advice on how
to implement the model and had easy access to the Project certification specialists who helped to build trust
and ease the GEM implementation process.


8.2 Implementation

Through permanent and sound technical assistance, an organization with no previous experience in
implementing World Bank projects can learn and succeed in their management. INMUJERES was a new
institution in the process of establishing itself in the complex Mexican federal government administration
and accepted the challenge of executing a World Bank project for the first time. The establishment of a
capable PCU with good staff to execute the LIL adhering to the World Banks and the federal
administration's rules, proved to be a challenging learning process. However, the technical assistance
provided by the World Bank, NAFIN and other government agencies, substantially reduced the learning
process period and helped to improve PCU's performance.

The schedule of project activities during project design should take into consideration the learning


                                                      - 34 -

curves of agencies without previous experience in managing World Bank projects. Since the capacity
building process takes time, project activities should be programmed according to the real time required for
the agency to acquire the capacity to operate the project, and not be overly optomistic. Although
INMUJERES managed the delivery of outputs within the project's time-frame, it could have benefited from
additional time to plan the project's interventions in greater detail.

Diagnostic studies of potential beneficiaries improved targeting and ownership. The Project was able to
identify the areas in which the Project could have the most impact by conducting extensive studies on the
socioeconomic characteristics of the population to be served, and their needs in terms of the project
intervention. The selection of the CONVIVE Cities, the establishment of combined programs and the design
and operation of the M&E system with a participatory approach facilitated project execution and enhanced
the project's outcomes. In GEM design, a sample of firms willing to participate facilitated the definition of
issues to address and priorities identification building on their own experience.

Performance evaluations are critical especially in learning efforts. The fact that the Project had a
participatory monitoring and evaluation system enhanced its efficiency and effectiveness. The timely
feedback from the M&E system permitted corrections during the operation of the project and allowed for
the extraction of lessons learned from the project implementation process and outcomes.

In the case of Pilot projects, sustainability activities should be supported by the Project. Although
INMUJERES prepared a sustainability plan, the project could have assisted INMUJERES to actively
incorporate project activities within its regular programs and broaden support to community-based
subprojects.

Gender mainstreaming projects that partner with other agents such as communities and firms could be
highly effective.The fact that the LIL partnered with communities and firms increased the human and
financial resources available, thus, improving the project's cost effectiveness. With the 600,000 dollars
invested in the CONVIVE Program, the LIL benefited about 10,000 persons. Likewise, the 600,000 dollars
invested in the GEM enhanced the organizational climate of 40 firms comprising 174,000 employees.

Major issues: Major issues identified during implementation are the following: In regards to Convive: (i)
the limited influence and lack of coordination with financial institutions lowered the possibility to finance a
greater number of women's projects; (ii) subproject selection criteria should be refined to better allocate
grants; (iii) it was not always possible to engage local authorities to support the project. In regards to the
GEM: (i) demand driven process should be more strategic to attract firms from sectors with greater impact
on gender equity; (ii) insufficient resources to disseminate the GEM in mass-media was perceived as a
drawback by private firms; (iii) it is necessary to split the cost of certification with the private sector to
reach more firms in strategic sectors. Generosidad was a pilot project, to achieve the cultural changes
necessary to promote gender equity at national level, it is necessary to scale up the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Provided by the Borrower in December, 2005.

Con el Proyecto Generosidad se diseñaron, probaron y evaluaron dos modelos para promover la equidad de
Género.




                                                     - 35 -

El Modelo CONVIVE en el ámbito comunitario probó ser un instrumento de intervención eficaz para la
generación y/o el desarrollo de organizaciones comunitarias que toman en cuenta la perspectiva de género
y la pluralidad, promoviendo una sana convivencia y apoyando la gobernabilidad. Por medio de la acción
de capacitación a líderes se probó una metodología que abre un espacio comunitario a la discusión de los
temas de género, como los roles de mujeres y hombres o la violencia intrafamiliar. Además la asistencia
técnica y capacitación para proyectos productivos demostró su importancia como elemento necesario para
el desarrollo de microempresas de mujeres, que debe ir acompañado al financiamiento.

El Modelo de Equidad de Género, MEG, es un instrumento innovador que sumó las bondades de los
sistemas de gestión con los aprendizajes en materia de equidad de género en el trabajo, para diseñar una
serie de metodologías integradas que hacen posible insertar la agenda de género en los modelos
administrativos de las empresas privadas, de los gobiernos, de las organizaciones de la sociedad civil y de
las universidades. El MEG además estableció un incentivo denominado "Distintivo en Equidad de Género"
que es otorgado a las organizaciones que demuestran haber incluido un compromiso a favor de la igualdad
de género en sus operaciones regulares, después de una evaluación calificada e imparcial. Al cierre del
Proyecto 57 organizaciones de diferentes tipos contaban con el "Distintivo"

La implementación del Proyecto inició junto con el desarrollo y consolidación del Inmujeres. En este
proceso el apoyo del Banco fue muy importante para acelerar la curva de aprendizaje que permitiera a la
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto y a las diferentes áreas del Instituto que se cumplieran y rebasaran la
metas y se generarán importantes aprendizajes.

El Modelo CONVIVE generó importantes aprendizajes en sus diferentes acciones. Por haber probado su
eficacia se han publicado metodologías para: i) la promoción comunitaria con equidad de género, ii) la
asistencia técnica y capacitación en proyectos productivos con equidad de género, y iii) la promoción de
liderazgos con equidad de género. El Instituto esta promoviendo estas publicaciones para que sean
utilizados por instituciones con programas sociales en los niveles federal y estatal. Estas metodologías
están siendo utilizadas por el Inmujeres en sus operaciones regulares.

El Modelo de Equidad de Género, se ha convertido en un programa regular que se ha sumado a los
elementos de la política de equidad de género del Gobierno Federal de México, se ha establecido un equipo
para su instrumentación con recursos suficientes y con metas definidas. Además se continúan con la
promoción internacional del MEG para que su metodología sea transferida, en una primera fase, a países
de Centroamérica. Para que posteriormente se promueva como norma de carácter internacional.

El apoyo del Banco Mundial fue muy positivo para el desarrollo adecuado del Proyecto con asistencia
técnica en diversos temas, asesoría para el diseño de términos de referencia, capacitación, y apoyo para
todos los procedimientos administrativos, financieros y de adquisiciones, entre otros. En este sentido el
apoyo del Banco fue un plus para el desempeño altamente satisfactorio del Proyecto.

El proceso de diseño, instrumentación, evaluación y cierre del Proyecto fortaleció al Inmujeres, ya que sus
 productos y metodologías son y seguirán siendo útiles para la promoción de la equidad de género, que
podrán ser replicadas en otros escenarios. Con esta intención y derivado de los excelentes resultados el
Inmujeres preparó el "Libro Blanco del Proyecto Generosidad" que documenta las diferentes acciones,
resultados y aprendizajes de los cuatro años de ejecución.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.



                                                   - 36 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

    Maria Elena Castro, Sr. Social Sciencist, Task Team Leader
    Andrew Morrison, Lead Economist PRMGE
    Teresa Roncal, Operations Analyst
    Olympia Icochea, Human Development Specialist, Consultant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in chronological order:

    Maria Valeria Pena, Lead Sociologist
    Maria Elena Castro, Sr. Social Sciencist, Task Team Leader

C. List of people interviewed for the ICR:

    The ICR preparation included an on-site visit to Mexico during November 14-25, 2005. This visit
    enabled the attendance to the beneficiaries and stakeholders' workshops and the conduction of in-depth
    interviews with different stakeholders closely related to the Project during its various phases. Included
    here were:

    INMUJERES:

        Patricia Espinosa, President of INMUJERES
        Esperanza Morelos, General Director of Planning ­ INMUJERES
        UCP:
        Luis Barba, Project Coordinator ­ INMUJERES
        Eva Ramirez, Project Evaluation Specialist ­ INMUJERES
        Ruben Araujo, Project Community Development Specialist ­ INMUJERES
        Diana Laura Arjona, CONVIVE Program Operator
        Eduardo Baeza, Project Consultant

    GoM Partners:

        Timoteo Harris, International Director ­ NAFIN
        Sergio Camacho, General Director of Administration ­ Secretary of Public Function
        Carolina Morales, Coordinator of Productive Development for Women - FONAES

    Former authorities:

        Francisco Cos, former Director of Planning --INMUJERES

    People interviewed in Washington DC or abroad included:

        Maria Elena Castro, WB Sr Social Scientist and current Project Task Manager



                                                    - 37 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase by 15% in women's participation in 15%                               59%
FONAES productive projects by EOP in the
project's intervention areas.




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Key management and technical personnel      100%                              100%
trained to incorporate a gender equity
approach in INMUJERES.
Community leaders trained on the            100 (30 men, 70 women)            434 (145 men, 289 women)
relationship between gender and
development.
Certifications program designed and         40                                57
implemented.
Number of communities in which Fondo        40                                69
CONVIVE and productive subprojects have
been implemented together.

1End of project




                                                            - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                         Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty         1.12             1.05             94
Alleviation Programs
2. Community-Based Gender Development                         1.82             1.66             91
3. Gender Awareness                                           0.91             0.84             92
2. Community-based Gender Development

Total Baseline Cost                                           3.85             3.55
                           Total Project Costs                3.85             3.55
                                          Front-end fee       0.03
                     Total Financing Required                 3.88             3.55


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB               2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00         0.20          0.00        0.20
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.17)          (0.00)      (0.17)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00         2.62          0.00        2.62
Consultants Services and            (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.24)          (0.00)      (2.24)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00         0.69          0.00        0.69
Grants for CONVIVE                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.63)          (0.00)      (0.63)
Program
5. Operating Costs                   0.00            0.00         0.00          0.33        0.33
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Front-end Fee                     0.00            0.00         0.03          0.00        0.03
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.03)          (0.00)      (0.03)
   Total                             0.00            0.00         3.54          0.33        3.87
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.07)          (0.00)      (3.07)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB               2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00        0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00        0.20           0.00       0.20
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)          ()         (0.00)      (0.00)



                                                 - 39 -

    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.29             0.00              2.29
    Consultants Services and               (0.00)               ()              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Training
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.62             0.00              0.62
    Grants for CONVIVE                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Program
    5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.33              0.33
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Front-end Fee                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.03              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.00              3.11             0.36              3.47
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutinalization of       0.88         0.24                     0.88         0.24                  100.0    100.0
Gender Approach in
Poverty-Alleviation
Programs
2. Community-based              1.46         0.25         0.11        1.38         0.35                  94.5     140.0      0.0
Gender Development
Institutional Strengthening     0.69         0.22                     0.78         0.06                  113.0     27.3
3. Gender Awareness
Front-end fee                   0.03         0.00                     0.03                               100.0     0.0
TOTAL                           3.06         0.71         0.11                                            0.0      0.0       0.0

   TOTAL




                                                           - 40 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/10/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1) SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1
              11/08/1999              10     TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1) SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); OPERATION
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (5)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/31/2000                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1) SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (5)
              05/15/2000              10     TASK MANAGER (1); SENIOR
                                             COUNSEL (1); REGIONAL
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             ADVISOR (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1); OPERATION
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Supervision
              05/07/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             GENDER SECTOR
                                             MANAGER;
              8/28/2001                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              04/19/2002                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              04/19/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROJECT ANALYSIS (1);




                                              - 42 -

                                           PROJECT DESIGN (1)
               08/02/2002              2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           GENDER SPECIALIST (1)
               08/19/2003              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           S (1)
               06/30/2004              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S
               09/13/2004              4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                           GENERAL OPERATIONS (1);
                                           EVALUATION AND GENDER
                                           (1)


 ICR
               11/14/2005             3     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            GENDER SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           24.77                         68.44
  Appraisal/Negotiation                12.39                         34.22
  Supervision                          55.30                        178.69
  ICR                                   5.02                         18.06
  Total                                97.48                        299.41




                                            - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Community Development
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document for a Gender Equity Project, dated May 26, 2000 (Report No
   20041-ME)
2. Loan Agreement for the Gender Equity Project, dated October 25, 2001 (loan number 7022-ME.)
3. Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports and Implementation Status Reports.
4. Project's documents: (i) Preliminary Report of Outcomes, Performance and Lessons Learnt of the
   Project Component one; (ii) "Promoting the Gener Equity in Communities: The CONVIVE Model";
   and (iii) Experiences in the Promotion of Gender Equality; (iv) Sustainability Plan for the Generosidad
   Project.
5. Borrower's comments to the ICR, February 22, 2006, included in Section 9.
6. Borrower's Evaluation Report included in Annex 8
7. Consultant Report on Impact Analysis of the Generosidad Project.




                                                - 46 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

El proyecto Generosidad fue una iniciativa de aprendizaje e innovación (LIL) acordada entre el Gobierno
de México y el Banco Mundial. Los objetivos fueron:

l Realizar estudios de investigación sobre las condiciones de vida de las mujeres, especialmente de
    quienes viven en condiciones de pobreza,
l Desarrollar acciones de base comunitaria para promover la igualdad de oportunidades para hombres y
    mujeres con estabilidad social, respeto al género, y origen étnico.
l Fomentar la sensibilización de la sociedad sobre las relaciones de equidad entre hombres y mujeres.
l Promover la incorporación de políticas de equidad de género en organizaciones públicas y privadas a
    través de un programa de certificación en equidad de género.

En la instrumentación del proyecto se lograron todos los objetivos considerados en los indicadores clave de
desempeño como se da cuenta en la siguiente tabla.




                                                    - 47 -

                                 INDICADORES CLAVE DE DESEMPEÑO

                                                           Meta definida
            Indicador              Metas alcanzadas       para el final del          Observaciones
                                                             Programa
Indicadores de la Parte A: Institucionalización del Enfoque de Género en el Alivio de los Programas
                                              para la Pobreza.
                                                                            Se     elaboró     la   Propuesta
                                                                            Metodológica y el Programa de
                                                                            los                        talleres.
Capacitar a los mandos medios y                                             Por   acuerdo    institucional   se
superiores del Inmujeres, en el                                             determinó que la capacitación
diseño, formulación, gestión y           66.10%                100%         del personal del Instituto recaería
evaluación   de   proyectos   con                                           en la Dirección de Capacitación
enfoque de género.                                                          interna; por lo que no fue
                                                                            necesario    proseguir    con     el
                                                                            programa de capacitación del
                                                                            Proyecto.
                Indicadores de la Parte B: Comunidad Basada en Desarrollo de Género.
                                  1. Incrementos dentro
                                  del gpo de 117
                                  asistidos:                                * Total Gpos asistidos 2003-
                                                                            2004: 117
                                  a. En apoyos de                            2003: 52 grupos
                                  Fonaes= 162.5%                             2004: 65 grupos
                                  b. En total de                            ** 22 grupos obtuvieron apoyo
                                  apoyos: 58%                               a raiz de la AT:
                                                                              13 de FONAES
                                  2. Incremento en el                          9 de otras fuentes
                                                                            *** Gpos que contaban con
Incremento de mujeres             Universo de
                                                                            apoyo antes de la AT:
participantes en proyectos        localidades                  15%             a) Dentro de los 117 gpos
productivos de FONAES             atendidas:                                asistidos:
                                  a. En apoyos de                                 Fonaes: 8
                                  Fonaes: 59%                                     Otras Fuentes: 30
                                  b. En total de                                b) Dentro de las 54
                                  apoyos= 24.2%                             localidades atendidas (214
                                                                            gpos):
                                                                                  Fonaes: 22
                                                                                  Otras Fuentes: 69



                                   434 (145 hombres /     100 (30 hombres   En 2003 se duplicó la meta
Líderes comunitarios                  289 mujeres)         / 70 mujeres)    programada para el final del
sensibilizados y capacitados en                                             proyecto y al final de 2004 se
equidad de género                                                           alcanzó 4.3 veces más de los
                                                                            programado.
                                                                            La meta se rebasó en 2.3 veces.
                                                                            Es decir, el Proyecto intervinó

Comunidades modelo                                                          con al menos una acción en 39

funcionando (con asistencia       93 (39 Ciudades                           Ciudades Convive y en 54

técnica para proyectos            Convive y 54            40 comunidades    localidades se brindó asistencia

productivos o Programa                                                      técnica.
                                  localidades de
CONVIVE funcionando)                                                        Además en el 2005 se apoyo a
                                  asistencia técnica) **                    24 subproyectos CONVIVE de
                                                                            17 Ciudades para promover su
                                                                            sostenibilidad
                   Indicadores de la Parte C: Sensibilización en Equidad de Género
                                                                            Las meta que corresponde a
                                                                            este     subcomponente          fue
                                                                            alcanzada        y       rebasada

Programa      de     certificación                                          ampliamente.        Además        el

(organizaciones certificadas)       57 certificaciones   40 certificaciones Inmujeres decidió continuar con
                                                                            esta acción como un programa
                                                                            permanente       y     como      un
                                                                            instrumento de la política de
                                                                            género.




                                                    - 48 -

Uno de los principales objetivos de un proyecto de aprendizaje es corroborar y/o contradecir hipótesis,
identificar lecciones aprendidas, a la vez que identificar estrategias efectivas.

Uno de los aspectos clave fue corroborar la importancia de los diagnósticos sociales participativos (social
assessments) para diseñar proyectos que respondan a las necesidades de los beneficiarios. El Proyecto
buscó responder a las preguntas: ¿Contribuyen los diagnósticos sociales participativos a una mejor
ejecución? ¿Contribuyen los diagnósticos sociales participativos a garantizar el impacto social del
proyecto? Asimismo, en el proceso de diseño se establecieron metas ambiciosas para responder a preguntas
tales como (a) ¿Cuáles son los métodos participativos que mejor contribuyen a fomentar el involucramiento
de hombres y mujeres en asuntos claves de sus respectivas comunidades?; y (b) ¿Cómo desarrollar
mecanismos para que los actores claves participen en el proceso de monitoreo y evaluación?

De igual manera, éste proyecto estableció metas, para determinar (a) ¿Cuáles podían ser los incentivos para
mejorar la interacción de ambos géneros en sus respectivas comunidades y ámbitos de trabajo?; (b) ¿Cuáles
eran los mecanismos para incorporar el enfoque de género en el sector publico?; y (c) ¿Cuáles eran las
formas mas idóneas para fortalecer las capacidades de mujeres y hombres como actores claves en la gestión
de la equidad de genero y la buena gobernabilidad?

Lo más ambicioso del proyecto Generosidad es haberse planteado esos retos para ser desarrollados en
distintos ámbitos: (a) las comunidades y las organizaciones sociales; (b) la empresa privada; y (c) el sector
público. Para todos estos ámbitos de acción, diferentes entre sí, se utilizaron métodos participativos donde
los beneficiarios identificaron: i) sus necesidades, y ii) soluciones prácticas para gestionar la equidad de
género.

Desde el punto de vista operacional se planteo el reto de aprender sí era una estrategia efectiva trabajar
directamente con las comunidades, sus líderes y sus organizaciones de base comunitaria --sean estas
formales o informales-- usando métodos participativos. También se planteó el reto de trabajar con el sector
privado para instrumentar acciones que mejoraran las condiciones y el ambiente de trabajo de empresas
transnacionales como WalMart, que es el mayor empleador privado de México o el Banco
Banamex-Citigroup y otras de diversos sectores económicos.

A nivel de sector público el reto significaba que, mediante el mismo uso de métodos participativos, el
Gobierno Federal considerará hacer de la equidad de género una política pública incorporada en el servicio
público.

Componente I: Institucionalización del Enfoque de Género en Programas de Alivio a la Pobreza

En este componente la meta fue realizar los siguientes estudios: (a) Diagnostico socioeconómico sobre la
situación y condiciones de vida de la población, particularmente de las mujeres, su participación en el
mercado laboral y en el hogar, así como en la estructura de la población; y (b) Estudio diagnóstico en las
comunidades seleccionadas sobre las percepciones, actitudes y/o roles de hombres y mujeres, y su visión
frente a la equidad.

I.- Diagnóstico Social Participativo (Participatory Social Assessment)

Para la preparación del Diagnostico Social Participativo (Social Assessment) se realizaron dos actividades
complementarias, i) con información censal se preparó una caracterización demográfica y socio-económica
de la población objetivo. Esta caracterización se hizo a nivel nacional, ii) se elaboró un Índice de


                                                     - 49 -

Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (INBI), que sirvió de línea de base para la preparación y ejecución de
cada uno de las actividades del componente 2. Esta actividad especifica proporcionó cuatro resultados: (1)
Diagnostico Demográfico y Socio-económico; (2) un INBI; (3) selección de una muestra estadísticamente
representativa que identificó los Estados, las ciudades y las localidades más apropiadas para que el
proyecto evaluara su estrategia de ejecución; y (4) Diagnostico Social Participativo (Social Assessment).

(1) Diagnostico Demográfico y Socio-económico.

Con información del Censo de Población y Vivienda del año 2000 como fuente básica de información se
preparó el INBI que contribuyó a la selección de las localidades beneficiarias.

Como lo muestra la tabla N 1, el análisis llevó a la selección de 8 Estados correspondientes al 28% del
territorio nacional, al 20% de la población total y al 46% del total de Municipios. La selección de los
Estados posicionó al proyecto en una situación estratégica para su ejecución en el sur, centro y norte del
país, cubriendo realidades sociales, económicas, políticas y culturales de diversa complejidad y disímiles
entre sí. Esta selección permitió "evaluar" la correlación entre el entorno de tejido social y la efectividad de
los instrumentos metodológicos y operacionales utilizados.

      Tabla N 1. Estados Seleccionados Para Realizar el Diagnóstico Social y Participativo de los
                                       Beneficiarios con Enfoque de Género.

         Entidad         Superficie km2 Población      Municipios                 Localidades
         Federativa                                                  Censo       Base Informe   Diferencia

         Nacional            1,959,248     97,483,412        2,443     199,369         107,173        92,196
         Región (8 Edos).       554,663    19,652,338        1,133      48,492          27,803        20,689
         Campeche                 57,727       690,689           11      3,099             724         2,375
         Chihuahua              247,487     3,052,907            67     12,862           5,126         7,736
         Hidalgo                  20,856    2,235,591            84      4,596           3,836           760
         Oaxaca                   93,343    3,438,765           570     10,511           8,009         2,502
         Puebla                   34,251    5,076,686           217      6,556           5,006         1,550
         Sinaloa                  57,331    2,536,844            18      6,260           3,524         2,736
         Tlaxcala                  3,997       962,646           60      1,245             584           661
         Yucatán                  39,671    1,658,210           106      3,363             994         2,369




(2) Indice de Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (INBI)

Se construyó un INBI que incorporó los siguientes indicadores: (a) ingresos: porcentaje de mujeres que
ganan hasta 2 salarios mínimos; (b) educación: porcentaje de población mayor de 15 años analfabeta y con
primaria incompleta; (c) salud: porcentaje de población sin acceso a servicios de salud; (d) vivienda:
porcentaje de viviendas particulares habitadas, sin sanitario privado (inodoro o letrina), sin agua potable,
con piso de tierra y sin ningún equipo eléctrico (refrigerador, cocina) y (e) etnicidad.

(3) Selección de la Muestra

Con la aplicación del índice se seleccionó la muestra en los 8 Estados y en ellos las ciudades y localidades
para ejecutar los programas de asistencia técnica y de CONVIVE, las dos actividades a nivel comunitario.
Y se definieron los siguientes criterios de cobertura para cada una de ésas actividades.




                                                       - 50 -

         i.- Asistencia Técnica:
             -    Selección de un total de 84 localidades y 16 de control.
             -    33 localidades con muy alta intensidad de carencias (39.3%)
                          - 51 localidades con alta intensidad de carencias (60.7%)
             -    11 localidades con menos de 2,500 habitantes (de 649 a 2,369 habitantes)
                          - 73 localidades con una población entre 2,500 y 9,458 habitantes

         ii.- CONVIVE:
             -    Localidades con más de 15,000 y menos de 50,000 habitantes.
             -    Localidades con media, alta y muy alta intensidad de carencias.
             -    Las dos localidades urbanas con mayor población de cada Estado.

(4) Universo de Población Consultada en la elaboración de Diagnostico Social Participativo

Se utilizaron 3 instrumentos para consultar a la población beneficiaria: (i) encuesta socioeconómica con
enfoque de género; (ii) entrevistas; y (iii) grupos focales. El total de la población consultada se refleja en la
tabla N 2. Con la encuesta se obtuvo información de 1,265 hogares. El número promedio de miembros por
hogar es 6 personas, se logró obtener información de aproximadamente 7,590 personas. Además se
realizaron 16 entrevistas semi estructuradas a actores claves (autoridades municipales, líderes, jefes de
hogar y otros) y 8 grupos focales a beneficiarios potenciales.

       Tabla N 2. Total de Población Consultada por Estado según Instrumento Metodológico

            ESTADO                      Sitos               Encuestas        Entrevistas   Grupos
                                    Consultados                                            Focales
            Campeche                       6                   117
            Chihuahua                      4                    80               6            2
            Hidalgo                        6                   119
            Oaxaca                        11                   219               4            2
            Puebla                        18                   359
            Sinaloa                        4                    80
            Tlaxcala                       7                   136               1            2
            Yucatán                        8                   155               5            2
                  Total                   64                  1,265              16           8




(5) Población Seleccionada a ser Beneficiada

El objetivo fundamental del Diagnóstico Social Participativo de Beneficiaros con Enfoque de Género fue
determinar la realidad socio-económica de las localidades y de los hogares antes de la intervención. El
proyecto contó con 3 actividades: (a) asistencia técnica, (b) Programa CONVIVE, y (c) capacitación a
lideres. Mediante su combinación se definieron diferentes escenarios de intervención en los que la
capacitación a líderes confluiría con las otras dos, para medir el alcance de los resultados evaluando el
impacto de la combinación de acciones. La Tabla N 3 muestra el número de localidades beneficiadas según
el tipo o tipos de intervención usados.




                                                     - 51 -

              Tabla N 3. Numero de Localidades Beneficiarias según Tipos de Intervención

                  Escenarios de Intervención                         Total Tipo de localidad

                  Asistencia técnica                                     77 Rurales
                  Asistencia técnica + Capacitación Líderes                7 Rurales

                  Capacitación Líderes + Programa CONVIVE*               15 Cd. CONVIVE
                  Programa CONVIVE **                                    38 Cd. CONVIVE

                  Localidades Control                                    16 Rurales

            Nota:     * Ciudades CONVIVE dentro de los 8 Estados
                      ** Ciudades fuera de los 8 Estados.



Los criterios utilizados para definir los escenarios de intervención fueron los siguientes:
- Identificación de necesidades, perspectivas y posibles soluciones usando un método de análisis
participativo.
- Identificación de necesidades y soluciones a cada población objetivo según su lugar de residencia, género
y actividad productiva.
- Análisis y comprobación de hipótesis sobre el impacto de la combinación sostenida de intervención en las
localidades.

Componente II: Desarrollo de Equidad de Género con Acciones Comunitarias

El objetivo de éste componente fue desarrollar acciones con el fin de: (a) impulsar un acceso más equitativo
para el desarrollo de proyectos productivos generadores de ingreso pequeños y medianos; (b) promover la
convivencia armoniosa, con pleno respeto a la diversidad étnica y de género; y (c) fomentar las
oportunidades de liderazgo para hombres y mujeres en el contexto de su comunidad.

(1) CONVIVE

Con este programa se proporcionó apoyo económico a organizaciones civiles, comunitarias y a grupos de
mujeres y jóvenes para realizar proyectos comunitarios que propiciaran la tolerancia y convivencia entre
hombres y mujeres. La meta eran 40 proyectos, pero el Programa Convive permitió la ejecución exitosa de
69 subproyectos de participación comunitaria.

Los resultados más importantes del apoyo a los proyectos fueron los siguientes:
i. Los proyectos con enfoque de género promovidos, estuvieron focalizados en los sectores más
    estratégicos (con carencias en infraestructura, salud, educación e ingresos), así como en ciudades donde
    el proyecto tuviera un alto impacto redistributivo para mujeres vulnerables (hogares de jefatura
    femenina, adultas en plenitud, con alta migración masculina, entre otras).
ii. Los criterios para la priorización y selección de proyectos fueron sustentados en la importancia de
    acciones estratégicas para generar una cultura de igualdad de oportunidades para hombres y mujeres
    que permitieran superar estereotipos y formas de discriminación.
iii. Para fortalecer la factibilidad económica y social, la estrategia del Programa priorizó proyectos sociales
    que además de considerar estrategias para el mantenimiento del proyecto después de recibir este apoyo,
    valoraran y cuantificaran la aportación de las mujeres en todo su desarrollo.
iv. Las organizaciones sociales que recibieron apoyos del programa, contaron con arraigo en las



                                                       - 52 -

   comunidades respectivas y posibilitaron la participación de las mujeres en la toma de decisiones con
   objeto de garantizar la promoción de sus intereses estratégicos y la reducción efectiva de las inequidades
   de género.

(2) Asistencia Técnica y Capacitación a Grupos de Mujeres

Se ofreció asistencia técnica a grupos de mujeres y mixtos que requirieran apoyo para la preparación de
proyectos productivos, manejo financiero, capacidad administrativa y desarrollo de proyectos no
tradicionales. El objetivo planteado fue realizar ésta actividad en un grupo de comunidades seleccionadas
en las que opera FONAES, con el objeto de elevar la participación en los servicios que ofrece dicha
institución.

Con el fin de proporcionar la asistencia técnica se realizó un Diagnostico Participativo para identificar
Grupos Productivos Comunitarios con Enfoque de Género por Estado en 84 localidades, se identificaron
272 grupos en 71 de las 84 localidades, en 13 localidades no se registraron grupo productivos. Es
interesante resaltar el alto porcentaje de participación femenina, la cual se refleja en el hecho de que el 61.4
% de los grupos eran solo de mujeres, el 32 % era mixto, mientras que solamente el 6.6 % estaban
constituidos solo por hombres.

                 Tabla N 4. Grupos Productivos Identificados según Género por Estado

                                       Constitución del Grupo Según Género                          Total
                         Grupo Mixto         Grupo de Hombres           Grupo de Mujeres
   Campeche                    9                      1                          19                  29
   Chihuahua                   9                      4                          12                  25
   Hidalgo                     6                      0                          14                  20
   Oaxaca                      8                      1                          32                  41
   Puebla                     15                      0                          40                  55
   Sinaloa                     6                      1                           1                   8
   Tlaxcala                   17                      0                          17                  34
   Yucatán                    17                      11                         32                  60
   Total                      87                      18                        167                  272




La Tabla N 5 muestra la población beneficiada por la asistencia técnica. El 55% de los grupos productivos
de mujeres y mixtos identificados recibieron asistencia técnica por parte del proyecto para mejorar sus
capacidades y aumentar su productividad. Además, se observa un aumento en las capacidades
operacionales del proyecto Generosidad al incrementar en un año no solo el número de localidades
atendidas, pasando de 24 a 30, sino que también el aumento de grupos asistidos al pasar de 52 a 65, lo cual
lleva al total de 117.




                                                      - 53 -

        Tabla N 5. Número de Grupos Productivos que recibieron Asistencia Técnica por Estado,
                                           Localidades según Año


                                   2003                          2004
                             No.          Grupos           No.        Grupos        Total de
                          Localidades    Asistidos     localidades   Asistidos      grupos
             Campeche         3              9              3            6            15
             Chihuahua                                      5            8             8
             Hidalgo          3              4              2            6            10
             Oaxaca           4              16             3            8            24
             Puebla           8              13             8           11            24
             Sinaloa                                        2            7             7

             Tlaxcala         3              4              3            9            13

             Yucatán          3              6              4           10            16
                              24             52            30           65            117



El 100% de los grupos asistidos prepararon proyectos productivos. De esos 117, un total de 22 recibieron
financiamiento, 13 recibieron apoyo de FONAES y los 9 restantes lo recibieron de otras instituciones. Las
otras instituciones piden menos requisitos para proporcionar financiamiento y responden más rápidamente.
Campeche y Puebla fueron los 2 Estados que recibieron más financiamiento. En el caso de Campeche y
Puebla predomino el programa de FONAES llamado Programa de Desarrollo Productivo de la Mujer. Este
programa no exigía que los grupos estuvieran formalmente organizados. El otro factor es la calidad de la
promoción que realizan las instituciones para desarrollar la demanda. Por ejemplo, se encontraron
diferencias en la promoción de las gerencias de cada una de las oficinas regionales de FONAES. Por
Estado se registró que con FONAES se ejecutaron 3 proyectos en Campeche, 6 en Puebla y 4 en Yucatán.
Los otros 9 grupos financiados por otras instituciones, 7 fueron en Chihuahua, y 2 en Yucatán.

            Tabla N 6. Numero de Subproyectos Productivos Financiados y en Proceso de
                                             Financiamiento

     Estado                            FONAES            Otras       En trámite       TOTAL
     Campeche                                 3                            4                7
     Puebla                                   6                            8                14
     Yucatán                                  4              2             3                9
     Chihuahua                                               7                              7
     Tlaxcala                                                              1                1
     Hidalgo                                                               1                1
     Sinaloa                                                               3                3
     TOTAL                                   13              9             20               42




Actualmente, en Campeche hay 4 subproyectos en trámite de financiamiento con SEDESOL con el
programa opciones productivas. En Hidalgo 1, en Puebla hay 8, en Sinaloa 1, en Tlaxcala 3 y finalmente
en Yucatán hay 3 en proceso. Todo este proceso ha tenido lugar en 54 localidades de los 8 Estados. La
asistencia técnica fue muy exitosa porque de los 117 capacitados todos prepararon proyecto productivo o



                                                   - 54 -

fortalecieron el que ya tenian.

Generosidad ayudo a éstos grupos a superar las limitaciones en el acceso a financiamiento, aliviar las
complicaciones de trámites, y a darles acceso a financiamiento a grupos que no estaban legalmente
constituidos, muchos de los cuales están, actualmente, en proceso de constituirse.

El caso más exitoso es Yucatán y esto se debe a: (a) la conformación del tejido social y cultural de las
comunidades (capital social) que se deriva de la tradición y cultura indígena Maya que facilita la formación
de grupos. Tlaxcala e Hidalgo tienen un capital social más vinculado a la red familiar que a redes
comunitarias de solidaridad social. En Sinaloa se encontraron localidades emergentes por actividades de
empresas agrícolas que requieren mano de obra estacional.

El enfoque de género de la asistencia técnica facilitó cambios en aspectos tales como; (a) valoración de su
trabajo; (b) auto reconocimiento de conocimientos y fortalezas, esto eso se logro con 2 actividades: (i)
darles derecho a escoger al técnico de acuerdo con sus criterios; (ii) la metodología del técnico a tu servicio
en lugar del técnico que te hace un favor. Otro aspecto es que las mujeres hicieron un diagnostico de
evaluación situacional de su organización productiva y el resultado fue cercano a un plan de negocios con
objetivos y metas.

(3) Fortalecimiento a las organizaciones y grupos que apoyan proyectos productivos sin Enfoque de
Género

El objetivo fue capacitar a grupos y organizaciones para que incorporaran el enfoque de género en la: (a)
asistencia técnica para proyectos productivos; (b) promoción y organización comunitaria; y (c) difusión.

Generosidad capacitó a instituciones públicas, privadas, ONG y profesionales (técnicos) independientes en
enfoque de género. Puesto que el proyecto no contaba con los recursos humanos para proporcionar la
asistencia técnica directamente se optó por construir las capacidades de éstos actores que ya
proporcionaban asistencia técnica pero sin enfoque de género. Esta actividad se denominó "Talleres
Estatales a ONG y Técnicos para que incorporen el Enfoque de Género en la Asistencia Técnica".

Entre los impactos registrados se logró que la capacitación se diera a proyectos focalizados a las
necesidades de cada región y localidad sumando el enfoque de género como elemento transversal.
Concretamente se capacitaron 182 técnicos, 90 mujeres y 92 hombres.

Contratación de ONG para capacitar Grupos de Mujeres.

Para cumplir con la meta de capacitar a éstos actores se elaboro una guía metodología de Asistencia
Técnica con enfoque de género. La capacitación contó con 3 módulos: (a) sensibilización en género, (b)
elaboración de autodiagnóstico, (c) formulación de proyectos que inicia con el diseño y después traslada las
necesidades del autodiagnóstico en propuesta, presupuesto y cronograma.

Uno de los impactos es que se desarrollaron cambios de conducta, que se evidenciaron en los siguientes
aspectos: i) decidieron asociarse, ii) administración de tiempos y actividades domésticas, iii) búsqueda de
financiamiento, iv) ampliación de capacidad de gestión, v) toma de riesgos sociales y financieros y vi)
alternativas locales en relación a la violencia doméstica.

(4) Capacitación a Líderes




                                                    - 55 -

El objetivo de ésta actividad fue desarrollar un programa de capacitación para fortalecer a mujeres lideres y
sensibilizar a hombres líderes para que: (a) desarrollen mejor su papel en las comunidades; (b) propiciar la
reflexión y el cambio de actitud en los hombres líderes para promover la corresponsabilidad y la
convivencia entre géneros.

(5) Estructura Operativa para la Ejecución de las Actividades del Componente 2: Asistencia Técnica
    a Grupos Productivos, Programa CONVIVE y Capacitación de Líderes

Para cubrir el territorio de intervención se diseñó una estrategia de ejecución que se basó en la agrupación
de los 8 Estados en regiones de intervención. Se le asignó una región a cada promotor(a) y en cada Región
se asignaron un número de localidades a intervenir. La tabla N 7 muestra las actividades que desarrollaron
cada Promotor(a) por Estado, localidad y actividad especifica.

  Tabla N 7. Estructura Operativa de la Ejecución de Asistencia Técnica a Grupos Productivos,
                             Programa CONVIVE y Capacitación de Líderes

                                                              Grupos Atendidos o Apoyados
    Equipo        Estado          No.             Ciudades         Asistencia    Líderes    Grupos
    Operativo                     Localidades     CONVIVE          Técnica                  CONVIVE
    Región        Sinaloa               6               2               7           16            2
    Norte         Chihuahua             5               1               8            6            0
    1
    Operadora
    Región        Hidalgo               6               2              10            4            4
    Centro        Tlaxcala             10               2              13            4            2
    1
    Operadora
    Oaxaca        Oaxaca               15               2              24           16            1
    1
    Operadora
    Puebla        Puebla               24               2              24           23            3
    1
    Operadora
    Región        Yucatán              11               2              16           16            12
    Sureste       Campeche              7               2              15           19            5
    1
    Operadora
    5                                  84              15              117        104*            29
    Personas
  * Incluye a organizaciones CONVIVE, grupos de Asistencia Técnica y otras organizaciones de la
  comunidad.




Componente III: Sensibilización en Género

Este componente tuvo dos grandes actividades, la campaña promocional y el Programa del Modelo de
Equidad de Género (MEG).




                                                    - 56 -

(a) Campaña Promocional.

El objetivo fue realizar una campaña de difusión para sensibilizar a la población objetivo sobre la
convivencia entre hombres y mujeres, la igualdad de oportunidades en el ámbito laboral y el valor del
respeto en la familia y la comunidad.

Para cumplir con los objetivos de esta actividad se realizaron las siguientes actividades: i) manual de
Imagen Corporativa, ii) trípticos y folletos promocionales, iii) folleto de Modelo de Equidad de Género, iv)
Videos del MEG y de CONVIVE, v) Cuadernillos Infantiles para colorear, vi) 53 spots de radio para la
difusión de la convocatoria CONVIVE, vii) asunciones en revistas especializadas y periódicos.

Además se prepararon boletines de prensa, Convenios con DICONSA y LICONSA para distribuir folletos
divulgativos de Generosidad, carteles y cuadernillos para colorear a los niños.

(b) Programa Modelo de Equidad de Género MEG:2003 del Proyecto Generosidad

El objetivo de este programa es apoyar el proceso de incorporación de políticas de equidad de género en
empresas privadas, instituciones públicas y organismos de la sociedad civil para promover la igualdad de
oportunidades de mujeres y hombres en el acceso al empleo, remuneraciones equitativas, capacitación,
desarrollo profesional y participación en la toma de decisiones.

Como parte de éste programa se desarrolló el Modelo de Equidad de Género MEG:2003, que es un
sistema de gestión que puede ser adoptado e implantado de manera voluntaria por organizaciones públicas
y privadas, como muestra de su compromiso con la igualdad de oportunidades para mujeres y hombres.
Una vez que se haya verificado el uso correcto del modelo en las políticas y practicas de las organizaciones
evaluadas, el Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres les otorga el "Distintivo en Equidad de Género" junto con la
autorización para que lo usen en sus productos, servicios, imagen institucional y/o áreas de intervención.

Para su diseño se realizaron las siguientes actividades:

Estudio Diagnostico 20 empresas. Se realizó estudio diagnostico de equidad y género para apoyar en la
determinación de los criterios o requisitos del modelo y obtener indicadores que reflejen de manera
concreta y cuantificable las problemáticas de equidad de género que se presentan en instituciones y
organizaciones.

Consulta a líderes de opinión. Se realizó una consulta a través de entrevistas en profundidad
complementadas por los Grupos de Enfoque de la cual se obtuvieron recomendaciones para el diseño y
desarrollo del MEG: 2003.

Elaboración del MEG:2003: Guías de Implantación. Paralelamente a la realización del estudio se elaboró
el modelo de equidad de género, así como la guía de implantación del mismo. Este documento es la base del
programa ya que dicta los lineamientos y criterios mínimos que deben adoptar e implantar las
organizaciones.

Elaboración del proceso de evaluación. El proceso de evaluación incluye los pasos a seguir para
atestiguar la implantación del Modelo de Equidad de Género MEG:2003 y con ello poder otorgar el
Distintivo de Equidad de Género a las organizaciones interesadas y esta compuesto por varios formatos y
documentos de apoyo que incluyen: i) diagramas de flujo, ii) metodología para la evaluación, iii) formatos,
guías y listas de verificación, iv) perfil del equipo auditor, y v) documento de preguntas más frecuentes.


                                                      - 57 -

En el MEG participaron 57 firmas privadas y organizaciones públicas que ya recibieron el distintivo,
superando ampliamente las meta prevista (40). Es importante notar que en estás 57 firmas se incluye a las
que lo recibieron en 2003 y en 2004 que continúan después de haber sido auditadas anualmente. Además
hay 3 organizaciones que recibieron el Distintivo en 2003 que solicitaron la reprogramación de su auditoria
para el primer trimestre de 2006, por lo que el número aumentaría a 60.

El MEG:2003 es una iniciativa para poner los temas de equidad de género e igualdad de oportunidades en
la agenda de las organizaciones. La realización de esta tarea proporciona: i) una evaluación independiente y
confiable a través de un proceso de auditoria, ii) un seguimiento del cumplimiento a través de una visita
anual durante un periodo de dos años, iii) el establecimiento de las bases para crear el hábito de respetar y
cumplir con los compromisos adquiridos de una organización socialmente responsable, iv) la oportunidad
de comunicar a la sociedad que cierta organización ha sido evaluada y reconocida por un organismo
independiente, mejorando la imagen y la confianza de los clientes y empleados respetando el entorno laboral
y mejorando las condiciones de igualdad para hombres y mujeres, v) detectar las brechas existentes entre
hombres y mujeres y las oportunidades de mejora, vi) el personal se ve motivado y reacciona a favor de la
organización, y vii) la mejora continua de su organización y del sistema de gestión.

Impacto. Entre los beneficios, bondades y fortalezas del MEG:2003 se encuentran las siguientes:
a) suprimir o contrarrestar los efectos perjudiciales de los estereotipos en la inserción laboral femenina y
    masculina;
b) alentar la participación de las mujeres y hombres en las ocupaciones con mejores posibilidades de
    desarrollo económico y profesional y en los sectores o puestos en los que está subrrepresentada/do y a
    los/as empleadores/as para que reciban e estas personas favorablemente;
c) diversificar las opciones profesionales femeninas y masculinas al brindarles la capacitación más
    pertinente;
d) asegurar que las áreas de reclutamiento y selección cuenten con suficiente personal calificado que
    conozca los problemas de los trabajadores en relación a los roles que juegan en la sociedad;
e) adaptar las condiciones de trabajo y ajustar la organización del mismo y los horarios a las necesidades
    de las mujeres y los hombres;
f) velar por que los hombres y mujeres compartan más las responsabilidades laborales, familiares y
    sociales,
g) divulgar ampliamente las disposiciones que regulan el trabajo femenino y asegurar su pleno
    conocimiento por parte de las beneficiarias;
h) impulsar el desarrollo de políticas de recursos humanos en las empresas privadas y públicas en pro de
    la igualdad de oportunidades y trato;
i) impulsar la incorporación sistemática en la negociación colectiva de la perspectiva de género.

El Modelo de Equidad de Género es un documento en dónde se especifican los requisitos mínimos que una
organización tiene que cumplir para asegurar que cuenta con condiciones de equidad de género e igualdad
de oportunidades para hombres y mujeres en los siguientes 8 temas:

   Reclutamiento y selección de personal              Vida familiar y laboral
   Capacitación                                       Ambiente laboral y salud en el trabajo
   Desarrollo profesional                             Hostigamiento sexual
   Igualdad de oportunidades y compensaciones         Sensibilización en Equidad de Género.

Los puntos anteriores se enmarcan dentro de un sistema de gestión relacionado al diseño, desarrollo e



                                                    - 58 -

implantación de acciones afirmativas y acciones a favor del personal. Para el diseño de estas acciones se
requiere la realización de un diagnóstico de las condiciones de equidad de género y de igualdad de
oportunidades para el cual se promueve la obtención de datos segregados por sexo así como el uso y
desarrollo de indicadores para la toma de decisiones. Los indicadores son tres: 1. Indicador de Segregación
Ocupacional, 2. Indicador de Salario Promedio, y 3. Índice de Hostigamiento Sexual.

La adopción del MEG:2003 es de carácter voluntario y aplica tanto en empresas de manufactura y
servicios, como en entidades o instituciones públicas de los tres niveles de gobierno que quieran demostrar
su compromiso con la equidad de género.

El impacto en las mujeres empleadas es positivo pues les ofrece oportunidades de desarrollo laboral y
profesional al posibilitarles:

- contratación no discriminatoria y prácticas de promoción,
- pago igual por trabajo de igual valor,
- oportunidades de capacitación,
- apoyos para la atención de las responsabilidades familiares.
- generación de un ambiente laboral libre de hostigamiento sexual.

Impacta a los varones empleados, pues los oficios tradicionalmente desempeñados por ellos y los
considerados femeninos quedan abiertos para ser elegidos de acuerdo a la preferencia personal y sin peligro
de menor retribución económica. A los hombres les permite una revalorización de su participación en el
ámbito privado posibilitando tener un rol más fuerte como padres al otorgarles permisos por paternidad.


Plan de apoyo para la implantación del MEG:2003.

Para cumplir con los objetivos se desarrolló un plan de apoyo para la implantación que incluye la
capacitación del personal de las organizaciones participantes a través de cursos de capacitación y ejecución
de talleres teórico-prácticos de sensibilización en equidad de género. Además incluye un acompañamiento a
cada organización con las siguientes actividades:

Capacitación. Los talleres de capacitación impartidos fueron los siguientes:

l Taller de sensibilización "Construyendo la Equidad"
    Objetivo: Fortalecer las capacidades de mujeres y hombres para favorecer la igualdad de oportunidades
    y la equidad de género, promover el cambio en la cultura de las empresas y organizaciones
    especialmente para las personas lideres de las mismas.

l Taller de sensibilización en torno a Masculinidad y Acciones Afirmativas.
    Objetivo: Promover el cambio en la cultura de las empresas y organizaciones; dar a conocer diversos
    conceptos sobre la equidad y perspectiva de género, relacionándolos con el concepto de masculinidad,
    a través de ejemplos prácticos; incorporar la idea de que la adopción de medidas especiales (acciones
    afirmativas), de carácter temporal encaminadas a acelerar la igualdad entre hombres y mujeres.

l Taller de Interpretación e Implantación del Modelo de Equidad de Género .
    Objetivo: Conocer, identificar, e interpretar los requisitos de un sistema de gestión de equidad de
    género, basado en el Modelo MEG: 2003, así como su aplicación dentro de sus organizaciones, además
    de desarrollar la dinámica para la realización de las evaluaciones internas para asegura el
    cumplimiento del sistema de gestión de la organización y conocer la metodología de la evaluación
    externa hacia el modelo de equidad de género.


                                                     - 59 -

Diagnóstico inicial. La segunda fase del plan de apoyo inicia con un diagnóstico de la organización con
respecto al Modelo de Equidad de Género MEG:2003.

Asesoría, seguimiento y apoyo continúo para la implantación del Modelo. Esta tarea consiste en la
revisión de los compromisos de los cronogramas particulares de cada organización para la implantación del
Modelo de Equidad de Género, a través de la programación de visitas semanales con una duración
aproximada de dos horas, en estas visitas también se busca resolver dudas y responder cuestionamientos
que puedan surgir para lograr la correcta implantación del MEG.2003.

Pre auditoria. Este trabajo consiste en una evaluación previa a la evaluación final que funcionará como
una ensayo, es un evento que no está dentro del proceso formal de evaluación, pero funcionará como una
evaluación similar a la final. A partir de este trabajo de elabora un reporte enunciando los problemas y las
áreas de oportunidad que se sugerirá atender para que en la visita de la auditoria final.

Consolidación de la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto (UCP)

La consolidación de la UCP, que logró conformar un equipo estable de alta capacidad técnica, que se
capacitó y adoptó el enfoque de equidad de género que, luego de superar la curva de aprendizaje, logró
manejar con eficiencia todas las fases de la ejecución del préstamo.

Cumplimiento con todos los reportes de supervisión financiera, en tiempo y forma, incluyendo tres reportes
anuales de auditoria sin novedad y el cumplimiento, cuando fue el caso, con las recomendaciones recibidas.

Se ha logrado comprometer el 100% del préstamo, el total del préstamo se desembolsará a inicios del 2006.

Desempeño del Banco

El Banco Mundial fue un excelente socio durante la ejecución del proyecto. Hizo muy importantes
contribuciones para el diseño de los instrumentos de intervención de los componentes del proyecto. Su
apoyo fue muy trascendente para acelerar la curva de aprendizaje de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
para que ésta instrumentara todas las actividades y se cumplieran y rebasaran las metas.

La ejecución del proyecto inicio paralelamente con la creación y consolidación del Inmujeres, el Banco
apoyó en todo momento la construcción de las capacidades para la adecuada elaboración de términos de
referencia y el manejo adecuado de los recursos de acuerdo con los lineamientos establecidos para la
selección de firmas de consultores, consultores individuales, en la adquisición de equipo y en los demás
procesos de contratación, así como en la presentación de información financiera. El procesamiento de no
objeciones fue expedito y en los casos que se requirió ofreció siempre la asesoría necesaria para la
adecuada presentación de solicitudes.

Desempeño de Nacional Financiera

El apoyo de Nacional Financiera fue siempre constante y de calidad en todos los procesos relacionados con
la tramitación de no objeciones, desembolsos, presentación de informes, entre otros. La asesoría estuvo
siempre a disposición de los responsables de la administración financiera del proyecto y su apoyo se amplio
siempre que fue solicitado con gestiones ante la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público para el adecuado
desarrollo del proyecto.



                                                     - 60 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                           Reporte de Taller de Diseminación y Evaluación del Modelo Convive
                                  Telchac Puerto, Yucatán - 16 y 17 de noviembre

Resultados de Encuesta a Beneficiarios

Las siguientes gráficas muestran las frecuencias o calificaciones de 29 personas beneficiaras que
respondieron el cuestionario establecido en el Plan Metodológico, para conocer su apreciación sobre el
proceso de implementación del Modelo CONVIVE, así como el desempeño de la Coordinación CONVIVE
del Inmujeres y el Banco Mundial.



                             Medio por el que se enteró del Programa CONVIVE


                        12                                                                  11

                        10
                                                                              8
                         8    7

       menciones         6                      5
                de
                         4
                                                                2
                  Número 2

                         0
                            Cartel          Periódico         Radio      Operador(a)        Otro




                                                          - 61 -

                              Calificación de...

5.00          4.78                4.61                 4.60                4.50
4.50
4.00
3.50
3.00
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
          Trabajo de        Apoyo de la          Asesoria y AT,       Capacitación
            los(as)        Coordinación            Proy. Prod.       sobre liderazgo
        operadores(as)       CONVIVE                                   comunitario

           1 = Muy Mala, 2 = Mala, 3 = Regular, 4 = Buena, 5 = Excelente




                          ¿Qué tan difícil fue ... ?


         Dar a conocer el proyecto en la
             comunidad o municipio                                            3.44


       Llevar al cabo reuniones internas                                       3.59


           Llevar las cuentas de gastos                                    3.13


Abrir cuentas bancarias mancomunadas                                          3.44


    Elaborar su proyecto para concursar                               2.79


                                           1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00
                  1=Muy difícil, 2=Difícil, 3=Regular, 4=Fácil, 5=Muy Fácil




                                         - 62 -

               ¿Cómo calificaría el impacto de su proyecto en ... ?



La comunidad                                                         4.18




    La familia                                                          4.36



  La propia
organización                                                             4.43



             1.00   1.50       2.00     2.50    3.00    3.50    4.00   4.50   5.00

                   1=Muy malo, 2=Malo, 3=Regular, 4=Bueno, 5=Excelente




           Durante y después de la ejecución del proyecto, se reconocen
                      cambios positivos en las actitudes de...




                                  Otros
                                  20%
                                                    Hombres
                                                      30%
                         Ninguno
                            2%



                   Aut. municipales
                        20%


                                               Mujeres
                                                28%




                                         - 63 -

                    Se constituyó legalmente o piensa hacerlo




                      No
                      21%




                                                       Si
                                                       79%




         Si la organización sigue trabajando, ¿Qué temas desarrollará?


                 Otras                                         12

Actividades productivas                               9

             Derechos                                 9


                Cultura                                             13

               Género                                                 14


                       0      2      4       6    8     10    12     14  16

                                         Número de menciones




                                       - 64 -

                              ¿Cuáles pueden ser sus fuentes de financiamiento?


                          16                                                       14
                          14   13

                          12                              10
                          10
         menciones                                                                                                            8
                           8                                                                                       7
                  de       6
                           4
                           2
                    Número 0


                                                                                                                               Otras
                                Inst.                                              Inst.
                                                            Estatales                    Federales                  propio
                                      Municipales
                                                                     Inst.                            Financimiento




   Reporte de Taller de Diseminación y Evaluación del Modelo de Equidad de Género, MEG:2003
                                                  Ciudad de México - 14 de noviembre de 2005

El lunes 14 de noviembre de 2005 se llevó al cabo el taller de evaluación y diseminación de los aprendizajes
del Modelo de Equidad de Género, MEG:2003, con el objetivo de evaluar la instrumentación del Modelo a
través de sus acciones de promoción, difusión, capacitación, apoyo para la realización de diagnósticos
iniciales, asesoría para la implantación, preauditorias, auditorias y apoyos para la preparación de los
seguimientos y evoluciones finales.

Este informe da cuenta de los resultados obtenidos entre los que sobresalen un desempeño muy satisfactorio
de los procesos del MEG con recomendaciones para perfeccionarlos, cambios significativos a favor de la
equidad de género y en el clima laboral en las organizaciones públicas y privadas, y una preocupación por
ampliar la cobertura de la difusión.

En este taller participaron 26 representantes de las organizaciones que han adoptado el MEG y de quienes
están en proceso de adoptarlo. Participaron representantes de todos los tipos de organizaciones, y de las 3
promociones anuales, 2003, 2004 y 2005. En total estuvieron representadas 18 organizaciones públicas,
privadas, de la sociedad civil y una educativa.

Además participaron invitados especiales que enriquecieron los resultados con sus aportaciones y
recomendaciones, en el anexo 1 se encuentra la lista de participantes.




                                                                             - 65 -

Para propiciar el diálogo y obtener los resultados de los participantes se desarrollo un plan metodológico
que contiene los instrumentos de recolección de información. Anexo 3.

Los temas abordados fueron los siguientes:
i) Califique el proceso
ii) Mida los cambios
iii) Impactos del MEG
iv) ¿Qué sigue?
v) ¿Qué incentivos nos recomienda?
vi) ¿Cómo promover el MEG?

Por su parte a los invitados especiales se les solicitaron recomendaciones para las organizaciones MEG, el
Inmujeres y el Banco Mundial.

1. Califique el proceso

En la siguiente gráfica se pueden ver los promedios de las calificaciones que obtuvieron cada uno de los
procesos del MEG, los participantes evaluaron calidad, oportunidad y pertinencia de acuerdo con su
experiencia.


                                             Califique el Proceso

         5,00        3,77           4,35           4,54            4,42              4,08           4,12         3,96
         4,00
         3,00
         2,00
         1,00

                                                     Inic
                                              ción                                             riao
                          Difusión   Capacita            Diag       Asesoria Implant                                       Mnto
                                                                                      Preaudit        Auditoria   Asesoria
                                                    1=Más bajo, 5=Mas alto




2. Mida los cambios

Los participantes escogieron indicadores para medir los cambios que se produjeron en las organizaciones a
partir de la adopción del MEG, en la siguiente gráfica se aprecian los resultados.




                                                             - 66 -

                Indicadores de cambio en las organizaciones

                                            Otros
                                              9%

                         Menos segregación
                                 3%

                          M ás estabilidad
                               laboral                              Mejor clim a labor al
                                 4%                                        31%
                   Menos dif. salariales
                            5%

                          Elim inó discr.
                           m aternidad
                                8%


                        Más productividad
                                8%

                                 M ás mujeres en               Mejor comunicación

                                   puestos gyd                         int.

                                         9%                            23%




3. Impactos del MEG

En esta sección se solicitó que señalarán si hubo impactos en la equidad de género en tres ámbitos: i)
organizacional, ii) familiar y iii) personal. En la siguiente gráfica se muestra la frecuencia de respuestas
para cada una de las tres opciones.


                                            Impacto en lo...


                     Personal                                                26
                                                               18


                      Familiar                                               26
                                                                19


             Organizacional                                                  26
                                                                           25


                                0        5     10       15      20       25        30

                                             Número de menciones




                                                    - 67 -

4. ¿Qué sigue?

En esta sección se les solicitó informar si sus organizaciones tienen un programa definido respecto al futuro
del MEG, en la siguiente gráfica se muestra los resultados.


                                  ¿Se tiene un programa definido?

               25                    22

               20

               15

               10

                5
                                                                           1
                0
                                     Si                                    No

                                                 No. de personas




5. ¿Qué incentivos nos recomienda?

En el marco de la sostenibilidad del MEG los participantes hicieron recomendaciones sobre los incentivos
que el Inmujeres, el Banco Mundial u otras instituciones pudieran aplicar para que más organizaciones se
sumen al MEG.

Sobresalieron las recomendaciones al Inmujeres para ampliar y fortalecer la difusión, se mencionaron las
siguientes alternativas:
i)   Difundir a las empresas que tienen el MEG.
ii) Crear centros de difusión en los estados.
iii) Impactos publicitarios a nivel nacional.
iv) Reconocimiento a nivel nacional en foros universitarios, privados y estatales.
v) Difusión en eventos deportivos masivos y a través de oficinas oficiales.
vi) Inserción de anuncios en medios sobre los casos de éxito.
vii) Financiamiento a organizaciones sociales para divulgar, impulsar y promover el modelo.
viii)Difusión relacional del MEG con encuestas y organismos como "Great Place to Work" o Encuesta
     Hewitt.
ix) Mayor visibilidad del distintivo en los medios.
x) Diseminación a través de las organizaciones que cuentan con la certificación.
xi) Que se promueva en los medios de comunicación: TV, radio, periódicos.
xii) Seguir difundiendo y promoviendo el material promocional que ha sido muy bueno.
xiii)Hacer campañas en medios un poco más masivos para que las personas en común sepan que significa



                                                    - 68 -

     el Distintivo.
xiv) Crear directorios y difundir a las empresas certificadas.
xv) Capacitar a organismo certificadores para mayor difusión.
xvi) Grabar testimonios de las organizaciones con Distintivo y difundirlos.
xvii)Hacer desayunos o cenas de gala invitando a altos directivos que puedan ayudar a que más empresas
     adopten el Modelo.

Otras recomendaciones al Inmujeres fueron:
l Establecer un programa de reconocimiento no sólo al obtener la certificación sino mantenerla cada año
l Formalizar la propiedad intelectual del MEG tanto a nivel nacional como internacional
l Contar con asesoría y apoyo de organismo internacionales interesados en el avance de las mujeres como
    la ONU.
l Diferentes niveles de certificación.
l Ampliar el número de empresas por año que puedan obtener el Distintivo
l Hacer metodología para medición de resultados cuantitativos
l Que se establezcan periodos de capacitación permanentes
l Traducir los documentos del MEG a otros idiomas y promoverlo en empresas trasnacionales
l Que el gobierno federal apoye a que instituciones estatales se certifiquen
l Estímulos fiscales a empresas
l Organizar foros de retroalimentación y compartir mejores prácticas
l Dar continuidad al finalizar el sexenio, cumplir con lo que se ofrece
l Crear una red con todas la empresas MEG para promover la intercomunicación
l Urge generar una revisión del MEG:2003 para adicionar conceptos y suplir otros.
l Hacerlo compatible al implementar ISO 9001:2000 como norma
l Organizar la feria de equidad de género para retroalimentar las actividades


Las recomendaciones al Banco Mundial fueron:
l Continuar apoyando al Inmujeres y darle seguimiento
l Dar reconocimiento a empresas
l Ampliar la cobertura, llevarlo a otros países
l Realizar una convención internacional sobre el tema de género con diferentes sedes
l Difusión a nivel internacional
l Explotación de indicadores de género (INEGI, Gartner, etc.) y difusión
l Evaluación del impacto
l Promover reuniones anuales de seguimiento
l Que en los foros mundiales de cooperación económica se difunda el MEG.
l Promover la diseminación del MEG en la lógica que sea vendible
l Brindar mayor apoyo presupuestal al Inmujeres
l Difundir el MEG como una metodología que generó México en equidad de género, flexible de ser
    adaptada a otros países
l Formar un comité de mantenimiento del programa, compartiendo resultados y mejores prácticas en
    otras partes del mundo.
l Reconocimiento a las empresas participantes y estatuilla, ampliar la cobertura a nivel latinoamericano,
    promover una convención anual.
l Realización de estudios en México con "datos duros" del beneficio a la empresas del Modelo de
    Equidad de Género




                                                    - 69 -

6. ¿Cómo promover el MEG?

Se les solicito a los participantes que diseñarán un mensaje o slogan para promover el MEG, los mensajes
seleccionados en el trabajo en mesas fueron:
l "Uno + una = equidad y mayor productividad".
l "Danos oportunidad y verás que todos y todas juntos podemos más".
l "Todas y todos construimos la equidad".
l "Equidad para mejorar".
l "Equidad de género, compromiso con la mejora de la calidad de vida".
l "¿Porqué eliges quedarte en la discriminación laboral, si el MEG te permite erradicarla?"
l "Aceptar que somos diferentes es una decisión individual: COMPROMETETE CON LA EQUIDAD".
l "Hombres y mujeres somos diferentes pero somos una sola voz por la igualdad de derechos y
    oportunidades".
l "MEG: un modelo para todos y todas".
l "El MEG me secó el cerebro y ahora soy puro corazón".
l "Problemas de desigualdad: El MEG tiene la solución".
l "En la familia y en la empresa mujeres y hombres nos desarrollamos con respecto a nuestras
    diferencias".

Recomendaciones de los invitados especiales.

Los invitados especiales en el taller emitieron recomendaciones para las propias organizaciones con
Distintivo, para el Inmujeres y para el Banco Mundial.

Recomendaciones a las organizaciones:
l Integrarlo en su sistema de gestión o tomarlo para implementar sistema de gestión (calidad, ambiental,
    responsabilidad social).
l Hacer difusión en TV, radio, periódicos, etc.
l Reconocer el valor de todos los individuos como parte integral de la organización buscando siempre al
    mejor candidato(a) en base a sus habilidades y competencia para desarrollar la actividad.
l Por medio de presentaciones a todo el personal buscar romper los paradigmas que hay en cuanto a que
    cierto sexo es para un puesto o función en particular.
l Implantación de procedimientos, manuales, guías, formatos, etc. que incorporen la perspectiva de
    género y que permitan la medición del programa con ayuda del Inmujeres.
l Continuar con su compromiso hacia el modelo.
l Asegurar que la alta dirección apoye en la medida de lo posible y se involucre en las acciones de
    equidad.
l Difundir el MEG con las empresas con las que tratan.
l Establecer y mantener al comité intra-organizacional involucrado en la instalación, implementación,
    seguimiento y evaluación del modelo.
l Informar a su personal y a su clientela de los beneficios del modelo, tanto en su ámbito profesional
    como en el personal/familiar.
l Revisar y evaluar de manera permanente sus propios procesos para rescatar bondades y debilidades.


Recomendaciones al Banco Mundial y al Inmujeres:
l Hacer revisiones al MEG cada 3 años para estar acorde con la evolución de las empresas.
l Reconocimiento oficial o presidencial y difusión como empresa certificada a través de los medios de
    difusión utilizados por el Inmujeres y presidencia.


                                                    - 70 -

l Que el Banco Mundial siga participando y apoyando el proyecto.
l Buscar siempre el apoyo del gobierno y de las organizaciones que ya lo implantaron para que no pierda
  su impacto.
l Difundirlo a nivel internacional.
l Buscar patrocinadores.
l Mantener un fondo para ayudar a las organizaciones en la implantación, desarrollo y mantenimiento de
  los modelos.
l Publicar los resultados obtenidos de aquellas organizaciones que ya han implantado el modelo.
l Campañas publicitarias a nivel mundial sobre el valor de las persona (sin importar su sexo u
  orientación sexual) para el desarrollo de las actividades de su puesto.
l Establecer un programa más agresivo para la difusión del MEG.
l Buscar mecanismos para otorgar mayores recursos económicos para el funcionamiento del MEG.
l Buscar un mayor acercamiento con las empresas e instituciones certificadas y con las que estén por
  hacerlo.
l Seguir difundiendo el modelo en empresas que aún no lo han adoptado.
l Difundir entre las empresas y en la sociedad las buenas prácticas que han logrado las empresas al
  adoptar el modelo.
l Hacer cabildeo en el legislativo para que se genere legislación y políticas públicas a favor de la
  igualdad de oportunidades y a favor del balance entre el ámbito laboral/profesional y el ámbito
  personal/familiar.
l Generar material didáctico e información que apoye el cambio de prácticas al interior de las
  instituciones y/o de organizaciones que ayuden a visualizar la problemática de discriminación, de
  hostigamiento sexual, etc.
l Extender su marco de acción y adoptar más estrategias de difusión, a través de los diferentes medio de
  comunicación.

También se les preguntó que habían aprendido del MEG, estas fueron las respuestas:
l El interés que el gobierno y el Inmujeres tienen por mejorar nuestra sociedad.
l El apoyo que ofrece esta siendo aplicado con éxito, pero falta difundirlo más.
l Ampliar el criterio, en cuanto a que se trata de un proceso de cambio en el cual las organizaciones se
  tienen que ir adaptando poco a poco para buscar romper con los paradigmas de la sociedad, y a través
  de acciones buscar mejoras en el interior que eventualmente se convertirán en un beneficio para la
  sociedad.
l Es un programa que permite mejorar las condiciones laborales y de productividad en las empresas y
  que tiene un impacto positivo en mejorar la calidad de vida personal.
l Me permitió darme cuenta que la lógica de la empresa no es solo de ganancia, sino también de
  compromiso social. Muchas de las buenas prácticas que se están logrando en las empresas son dignas
  de imitarse por parte de las instancias gubernamentales a nivel nacional e internacional.
l Es un modelo de reciente implementación en las empresas y que permite mejorar el status de las
  mujeres al interior de las mismas y con ello favorece la interrelación de todos sus miembros. En
  consecuencia la actividad productiva mejora sus resultados.




                                                   - 71 -

- 72 -

