Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20041-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.07 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
GENDER EQUITY PROJECT - PROGENERO
MAY 26, 2000
Mexico Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = $ Mexican Pesos
1$ - US$0.106
US$1 = $9.418
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CAVI              Centro de Apoyo a la Violencia Intrafamiliar (Support Center for Interfamily Violence)
CONAZA            Comisi6n Nacional de las Zonas Aridas (National Commission of Arid Zones)
CONMUJER          Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer (National Commission of Women)
CQ                 Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
DGD               Direcci6n de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender and Development Division)
DGES              Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento (Monitoring and Evaluation
General Directorate)
DRD               Desarrollo Regional y Descentralizaci6n (Rural Development and Decentralization)
Projects I and 11
FARAH             Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FONAES            Fondo Nacional de Apoyo a las Empresas de Solidaridad
(National Fund to Support Solidarity Small Enterprises)
GOM               Government of Mexico
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
iMSS              Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (Mexican Institute for Social Safety)
INDESOL           Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Social (National Institute for Social Development)
INI               Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute)
LCSES             Latin America and Caribbean Region Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Sector Management Unit
LCSPR             Latin America and Caribbean Region Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Sector Management Unit
LIL               Learning and Innovation Loan
MET               Memorandum de Entendimiento Tecnico (Technical Memorandum of Understanding)
NAFIN             Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (National Development Bank)
N.B.F.            Not Bank-financed
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PET               Programa de Empleo Temporal (Temporary Employment Program)
PHRD              Policy and Human Resource Development (Japan Trust Fund)
PMR               Project Management Reports
PRA               Participatory Rural Appraisal
ProGenero         Gender Equity Project
PRONAM            Programa Nacional de la Mujer (National Program for Women)
QCBS              Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SECODAM            Secretaria de la Controloria y Desarrollo Administraci6n
(Ministry of Control and Administration Development)
SEDESOL           Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SHCP              Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
UNIFEM            United Nations Development Fund for Women
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Directors:   Guillermo Perry/John Redwood
Lead Economist:     Marcelo Giugale
Sector Managers:    Maria Correia/Shelton Davis
Team Leader:        MaTia-Valeria Pena



Mexico
Gender Equity Project - ProGenero
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
I . Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................                        ................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................................                    :.3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project ..................................6
4. Learning and innovation expectations .....................................................7
C. Project Description  Summary ....................................................8
1. Project components ....................................................                                                 8
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements .....................................................                     9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ....................................................                            10
D. Project Rationale .................................................... 11
E. Summary Project Analysis .....................................................11
1. Economic ....................................................                                                          11
2. Financial ....................................................                                                         11
3. Technical ....................................................                                                         12
4. Institutional ....................................................                                                     12
5. Social ....................................................                                                            13
6. Environmental assessment ....................................................                                          14
7. Participatory approach ....................................................                                            14
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................... 14
1. Sustainability ....................................................                                                    14
2. Critical Risks ....................................................                                                    14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................... 15
G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................... 15
1. Effectiveness Conditions ....................................................                                          15



H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                         15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                         15
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Social Assessment
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table A2.     Procurement Plan
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.     Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.      Country at a Glance
IBRD 23547 Map of Mexico



Mexico Gender Equity Project
ProGenero
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Mexico Country Management Unit
Date: May 25, 2000                            Team Leader: Maria-Valeria Pena
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade          Sector Directors: Guillermo Perry/John Redwood
Project ID: P066938                           Sector: BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation   Theme(s): Gender and Development
Loan (LIL)
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[X1 Loan      [ ] Credit     [] Grant       [ Guarantee       [ Other [Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $3.07
Proposed terms:                         [ ] Multicurrency     [X] Single currency
Standard Variable  [X] Fixed-Spread     [ ] LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             10 (Bullet Repayment)
Commitment fee:            0.85% (for first four years)/0.75% thereafter
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
Financing plan:
Source                            Local           Foreign         Total
Government                                           0.71             0.00              0.71
IBRD                                                 2.35             0.68              3.03
Beneficiaries                                        0.10             0.01              0.11
Front-End Fee                                        0.00             0.03             0.03
Total:                                               3.15 a/           0.72             3.87 a/
a' total amounts do not add due to rounding.
Borrower: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. - NAFIN
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agency: Ministry of Social Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social - SEDESOL)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001         2002         2003
Annual       0.41         1.45         1.21
Cumulative       0.41         1.86         3.07
Project implementation period: July 2000 - June 2002
Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 2000          Expected closing date: December 31, 2002
Implementing agency: SEDESOL, General Directorate of Monitoring and Evaluation
Contact person: Rosalba Carrasco Licea, General Director of Monitoring and Evaluation
Address: San Antonio #124 ler Piso, Edificio C
Col. Transito, Deleg. Cuahtemoc
Mexico, D.F., C.P. 08323
Tel: 57 41 0923               Fax: 57 41 8284



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Mexico Gender Equity Project - ProGenero, a Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL), is to facilitate the mutual learning and piloting of community-based initiatives to promote
gender equity and improved access to government-supported income generation programs in the context
of Mexico's strategy for poverty reduction and social sustainability. ProGenero would test an approach
in the public sector that targets both men and women in their gender roles, and since there is limited
operational experience with this type of innovative approach in Mexico and in the Bank, the LIL would
provide a learning opportunity for mainstreaming gender in future operations.
To achieve this objective, the project will support the following activities: (a) strengthen the Secretaria de
Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development) SEDESOL's capacity to incorporate a gender
dimension in its poverty reduction and service delivery programs; (b) improve the access of female
producers to Fondo Nacional de Apoyo a las Empresas de Solidaridad (National Fund to Support
Solidarity Small Enterprises, FONAES) through capacity-building and technical assistance; (c) advance
leadership opportunities for women and men by supporting community-based approaches to gender; and
(d) increase gender awareness and understanding among critical stakeholder groups.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators include: (a) SEDESOL's staffs ability to integrate gender awareness and
gender equity issues into SEDESOL programs is strengthened; (b) five percent decrease in the gender gap
between men and women benefiting from SEDESOL programs in the first year and a 12 percent decrease
in the second year (gender gap is defined as the gap in access to or reach of services to male and female
population); (c) a 15 percent increase in the total number of women benefiting from FONAES at the end
of the second year; (d) increased awareness among male and female community leaders about the
relationship between gender equity and good governance and about the value of gender equity in the
family and in the community; and (e) increased awareness of constraints of gender socialization and
improved gender interactions in selected communities benefiting from the Convive Program.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19289-MX               Date of latest CAS discussion: May 13, 1999
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board of Directors
in May 1999. During CAS discussions, the Government of Mexico (GOM) addressed gender through
two activities: (a) knowledge accumulation on gender and pension reform; and (b) capacity-building for
public debate and awareness activities. The capacity-building activity evolved into this proposed project
and it is consistent with the CAS discussed by the Executive Directors on May 13, 1999. By Government
request, ProGenero has been designed as a LIL to test a gendered approach in Mexico's poverty reduction
strategy.
The proposed project supports the CAS in two of its main objectives: social sustainability and enhancing
public governance. As described in the CAS, differences in income and wealth due to regional, gender
and occupational factors have persisted and result in the social exclusion of significant portions of the
Mexican population from the benefits of development. According to World Bank estimates, after
controlling for household characteristics such as education, occupation, geographic location, and
demographics, female-headed households face a higher probability of being poor than male-headed
households. These inequalities are perpetuated by unequal access to services and productive
opportunities. ProGenero seeks to create more equality in access to and demand for services that will
foster income-generating opportunities for both men and women, and therefore, increased social
sustainability. By working through SEDESOL at both the central and state levels and strengthening their
service delivery capacity, ProGenero will also support the ongoing process of decentralized, sustainable



Page 3
service delivery and development.
The Mexico CAS is driven by three main selectivity criteria, all applicable to ProGenero. By promoting
more equitable access to poverty targeted productive projects of SEDESOL, ProGenero is in agreement
with the criteria of marginal impact on poverty reduction. By responding to a more sensitive gender
agenda recently pursued by SEDESOL, the project is in agreement with the criteria of supporting client's
expressed needs. By supporting activities that are the heart of the Bank's mission of overcoming poverty,
discrimination and exclusion, ProG&nero is in agreement with the Bank's comparative advantage in this
area.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Gender is not a sector, but rather a cross cutting theme. ProGenero is designed to focus on gender
stereotypes, expectations, and institutional procedures that lead to unfair access to resources and
productive opportunities and inequalities in the social sphere for both men and women produced by their
gender roles.
Gender Issues and Roles
Mexico has made significant progress in terms of addressing the salient gender issues with which many
other Latin American countries continue to struggle. Gender gaps in education are not substantial and
global maternal mortality rates have declined significantly (from 33.0 in 1992 to 19.4 deaths per 1,000
live births in 1997), as have fertility levels (from 4.3 in 1980 to 3.2 in 1990). However, a 1999 study
prepared by the Government of Mexico notes that poverty and inequalities persist, particularly with
regional and ethnic group disparities. Poverty affects men and women differently and men and women in
the same socioeconomic environment may encounter different opportunities and restrictions to gain
access to employment and income-generation prospects.
Analysis also shows that the gender division of labor within the family has hardly changed since the
fifties, in spite of the critical role women play in Mexican society. Indeed, a participatory rural appraisal
(PRA) carried out as part of the preparation of the LIL with farm workers in Sinaloa showed that adult
women and girls still carry out much of the domestic work. Some young boys, although willing to
participate in domestic chores, are usually discouraged by their mothers' fear that boy's masculinity could
be jeopardized and they would be subject to social rejection.
Many programs, intended to support women, are still influenced by traditional roles. A series of gender
studies conducted by the Bank on education, labor market participation and earnings, micro-enterprise
development, and ejido reform in Mexico, demonstrates that gender roles-in particular, women's
domestic responsibilities and the expectation that men will provide the primary source of household
income-have a significant impact on the acquisition of human capital and the differential abilities of
men and women to participate in the national economy. For self-employed women, the sectoral
distribution and other characteristics of female-owned micro-enterprises are strongly influenced by the
need to combine income generation with domestic work. Men are more likely to work when they have
young children, and other household members, including wives and children contribute to these income-
generation activities.
The labor force has also witnessed important changes in terms of gender. Women's labor force
participation was the fastest growing in Latin America, almost doubling between 1970 and 1990. Still,
women represent only 35 percent of labor force, a lower proportion than in countries such as Brazil, with
45 percent female participation. On the other hand, male participation has declined. Recent studies in
Mexico note that as in other countries, when men's employment decreases, their status within their
families suffers and their self esteem is undermined. Research also suggests that significant gender
differences exist in returns to human capital in the rural labor market, in the sectoral distribution of
workers in the urban economy, levels of micro-enterprise earnings, and effects of land market reforms.
Women's rural labor force participation will increase from 28.5 to 85.1 percent if women faced the same
returns to endowments as men, and gender differences in productive characteristics are more important in



Page 4
explaining micro-enterprise-based gender earnings differentials in rural versus urban settings.
Violence. Both men and women are victims of violence and there are indications that violence among
men, particularly young men is increasing. Existing evidence shows that women and children are more
likely to become victims of violence inside the home while young men are more likely to become victims
outside the home. While it is difficult to assess the magnitude of violence, particularly domestic and
sexual violence, it is a trend that continues in Mexican society. In 1996, 89 percent of the total victims
treated at the Centro de Apoyo a la Violencia Intrafamiliar (Support Center for Interfamily Violence -
CAVI) were women, 86 percent of whom were adult women. In addition, data from the Agencias
Especializadas de Delitos Sexuales (Specialized Agencies for Sexual Crimes) in the Federal District show
that from May to June 1995, 90 percent of all sexual violence victims were women, of which 70 percent
were under the age of 24.
Inequalities between men and women and unfair expectations regarding their gender roles are pervasive
and remain sources of conflict in the family and the community and a handicap for social and economic
development in Mexico. These problems, the changes, and the ongoing conflicts affecting both men and
women have been considered in the design of ProGenero. The LIL will test an approach that recognizes
that gender is relational, involving both men and women, thus making them both beneficiaries of its
learning process.
Government's Response on Gender
In 1995, GOM launched the Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1995-2000 (National Development Plan) which
prioritized the promotion of productive activities that generate employment and provide improved social
conditions and equal opportunities, including the advancement of the status of women. Following on this,
GOM established the Programa Nacional de la Mujer (National Program for Women - PRONAM) which
has the following objectives: (a) to advance women's education; (b) to expand reproductive health
services to women; (c) to strengthen women's capacity to participate in all areas of social life and
decision-making processes; (e) to prevent violence against women; (f) to reduce poverty among women;
and (g) to promote a more equitable division of domestic labor between men and women. In 1998, to
ensure institutional continuity, the Government created the Coordinacion General de la Comisi6n
Nacional de la Mujer, (National Commission of Women - CONMUJER) as a non-centralized
organization under the Secretaria de Gobernaci6n (Department of the Interior). CONMUJER advocates
for specific legislation and other normative procedures to benefit women and stimulates sectoral programs
to achieve PRONAM's goals.
Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL). SEDESOL coordinates the social development policy of
the federal government and through its Subsecretaries, programs, and institutes, carries out specific
programs to address poverty reduction, productive projects, human capital, urban development and
housing, indigenous rights and development, and community participation. The social policy of GOM is
based on several different pillars, including the development of family capital, promotion of productive
social development, enhancement of social participation, and fostering gender equity. Poverty reduction
programs are designed to meet the needs of disadvantaged groups and provide services in regions
characterized by high levels of poverty and limited economic growth. GOM recognizes that effective
poverty reduction strategies must not only increase the income of beneficiaries, but also include specific
actions to achieve equity among men and women.
In 1999, SEDESOL included in its mandate the goals of ensuring that all of its programs (the so-called
Ramo 26) incorporate a gender focus and that women comprise 50 percent of the beneficiaries of these
programs, including: the Credito a la Palabra (Credit without Guarantee); Desarrollo Productivo de la
Mujer (Productive Development of Women), which supports women living in extreme poverty with
training, education, health care, and incentives to increase their involvement in productive projects;
Fondo Nacional de Apoyo a las Empresas Sociales (Fund to Support Small Social Enterprises -
FONAES); Fondos Regional Indigenas (Regional Indigenous Fund), which consists of different actions
targeted to indigenous populations; and Programa de Empleo Temporal (Temporary Employment
Program - PET); and Zonas Aridas, which promotes social infrastructure in specific regions.



Page 5
Although the standards and procedures in SEDESOL's social programs addressed to the poor are not
intentionally discriminatory, institutional barriers may affect equal access to benefits and credit and
productive resources. There may be weak demand for services given gender roles or the lack of capacity,
which limits female participation rates (see table below).
Female Participation Rates in Selected Employment and Income Generation Programs, 1999 (SEDESOL)
Program                               Description                        Female
Participation Rates
Credito a la Palabra         Program for low-income farmers that supports           12.5%
(Credit without Guarantee)   development of productive projects through access to
credit without collateral requirement.
FONAES - Fondo Nacional de    Promotes viable and sustainable enterprises and productive  23%
Apoyo a las Empresas de Sociales  projects for poor populations through business capacity
(Fund to Support Small Social    building, promotion of commercialization and market
Enterprises)                 niches, and access to credit.
PET - Programa de Empleo     Generates transitory work opportunities for the very poor  16%
Temporal (Temporary         through small construction and rehabilitation of
Employment Program)          community infrastructure.
Programa de Jornaleros       Attention to temporary laborers in plantations, including  47%*
Agricolas (Agricultural Day-  housing, health, education, recreation, and training.
laborer Program)
*higher than in other programs, but still lower than male participation
An institutional assessment of SEDESOL's capacity to address problems of gender inequity in its
programs was carried out in October/November 1999 as part of the Gender Capacity-building Technical
Assistance Grant (PHRD). The findings of this study confirm that a general lack of understanding exists
about the gender approach and how to incorporate it into poverty reduction programs. The study
recommends training for all levels of staff in SEDESOL about gender and the gender approach. An
assessment of FONAES productive projects reveals several issues related to the capacity of both
SEDESOL and the beneficiaries, such as women's organizations' lack of demand for services, ability to
access credit, and tendency to participate in "traditional" productive projects, such as tortilla making,
which generate less income. To address the issue of access, ProGenero will review program procedures
to evaluate potential institutional barriers in specific programs, such as FONAES and implement training
and awareness raising seminars for SEDESOL employees. The LIL will provide training for women and
for women's organizations to increase the demand for services, promote their participation in "non-
traditional" productive projects, and enhance their participation in leadership opportunities and public
fora. The LIL will also generate an improved vision of equitable gender roles within the Mexican society
through sensitization of both men and women on gender roles in public and private spaces and by
providing training and technical assistance.
SEDESOL has initiated several actions to address gender concerns, such as hiring gender specialists,
workshops to increase participation of women in productive projects, awareness raising seminars for
SEDESOL staff, and the establishment of the Direccion de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender and
Development Division - DGD) to oversee gender initiatives related to SEDESOL's programs. A recent
analysis of DGD identified the following actions needed for this Division to effectively coordinate gender
initiatives, including: (a) clearly define the objectives of institutionalizing a gender approach in the public
sector; (b) develop a systematic approach and structure to institutionalize gender; (c) complete a thorough
diagnostic of gender issues; and (d) design a monitoring and evaluation system, including an information
system, which allows for ongoing institutional analysis of gender. The ProGdnero LIL is designed to
build the capacity of DGD to address these needs by strengthening the institutionalization of a gender
perspective in SEDESOL through training and capacity building.
Partnerships and Participation. SEDESOL is in the process of developing improved coordination
mechanisms with other sectors and with civil society organizations to multiply its efforts and benefit from
the community-based experience of these organizations. SEDESOL has prioritized specific actions to
incorporate the public in decision-making through consultative councils at the municipal levels and for



Page 6
urban development and the Consejo Consultivo Ciudadano de Desarrollo Social (Consultative Group on
Social Development). This group consists of representatives from different sectors, including federal,
state, and municipal government, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), legislators, academics, clergy,
unions, and companies. The objective of the Consultative Group is to supervise, evaluate and make
recommendations about social development policies, particularly poverty reduction. To achieve the
enormnous challenge of incorporating gender in the Ramo 26 Programs, SEDESOL created a Mesa de
Trabajo sobre Enfoque de Genero (Task Force On Gender Approach) in February 1999, within the
Consultative Group on Social Development, to function as an advisory committee and evaluate the
advances with respect to attention to gender.
The Task Force on Gender is comprised of thirty male and female representatives with various
backgrounds and from different states including San Luis Potosi, Chiapas, Zacatecas, Michoacan and
Sonora. In addition to members of the Consultative Group on Social Development, other participants
include state and federal government staff, legislators from different political parties, and specialists and
researchers. In 1999, the representatives in the Task Force reached a consensus that, although the
quantitative target of 50 percent female beneficiaries is important, it is also necessary that these programs
are sustainable. This effort requires beneficiaries' informed participation in the decision-making process.
The ProGenero LIL will build on the efforts of the Task Force by enhancing beneficiaries' capacity to
access productive projects and to participate in the development process through training and technical
assistance to women's groups and civil society organizations. The Convive Program, a small demand-
driven, competitive grants fund, will support a variety of innovative projects implemented by civil society
organizations to promote the equitable participation of men and women in their communities.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
During project preparation, strategic choices were made to promote activities that can have a great impact
in the short run, in selected regions, and involve groups keen on accepting changes. The main areas of
action comprise: (a) developing incentives to promote better gender interactions in community life and in
the work place; (b) incorporating a gender approach in the public sector; and (c) strengthening the
capacity of women and men as leaders and as productive agents on gender equity in good governance.
Poor Mexican families living in socio-economic transition areas, and which lack income generation
opportunities and a rewarding community life, are the potential beneficiaries of the lessons learned by the
LIL.
Promoting Gender Equity and Changing Gender Stereotypes. The first strategic choice by GOM was
whether to design the LIL addressing women's issues or whether to learn from a gender approach which
includes male and female perspectives. Although women lag behind men regarding the control of key
socioeconomic resources - employment, wages and income, credit, higher education and political power,
and most often are the victims, not the perpetrators of violent acts, a gender approach was considered
more appropriate than a "women in development" approach. Indeed, given that women and men's social
standing emerge from gender roles, socialization, and expectations, both male and female roles should be
addressed. By adopting a gender approach, men and women are considered beneficiaries of the gender
equity LIL.
The proposed project will apply a "true" gender perspective in its approach by addressing the
consequences of gender roles on both sexes and considering the linkages between the genders rather than
focusing solely on women. This project will promote awareness and leadership about the value of
equitable relations between men and women and the transmission of new ideas and successful
experiences that can be replicated throughout urban and rural Mexico. It will also promote equitable and
peaceful community life through support to productive activities, leadership capacity-building, and the
establishment of the Convive Program, a demand-driven resource to support cultural, recreational,
environmental, and educational programs implemented by civil society organizations.



Page 7
A second strategic choice was whether to implement the LIL through an agency specializing in women
and development issues - CONMUJER - or learn from an agency like SEDESOL, specializing in poverty
alleviation with an interest in mainstreaming gender concerns, rather than only advancing the economic
status of women. The latter was chosen and will allow the government to test an approach in which a
gender perspective will be mainstreamed integrally throughout some of the key governmental programs
addressed to the poor. Within SEDESOL, the learning focus would be on the impact and effectiveness of
a community-based perspective.
Service Provision and Targeting. The LIL will build upon and promote experimentation within already
existing institutions and initiatives rather than creating new ones. Intensive monitoring and evaluation of
the LIL will focus on the most effective roles government and local communities can play in development
interventions. The LIL will support efforts to institutionalize a gender perspective in SEDESOL to ensure
improved gender equity in the access to opportunities and resources of development programs. A
principal aspect of the institutionalization of gender in SEDESOL programs will be the analysis of their
norms, policies and procedures. SEDESOL programs to be evaluated are those related to poverty
alleviation, social subsidies, and urban development. This project will provide lessons from three
different models: (a) promotion of change within government; (b) providing incentives to civic
institutions; and (c) building partnerships between both government and civic institutions. The
geographic targeting of pilot regions was defined under the Gender Capacity-building Technical
Assistance Grant (PHRD) and is described in the Operations Manual. The implementation of different
types of activities in different regions and communities will provide important lessons on how to target
gender-based programs.
Community-BasedApproach. The LIL will provide opportunities to learn from the implementation of a
community-based perspective in SEDESOL with the participation of civil society organizations and
beneficiaries. The LIL will provide important lessons on how empowered community groups can play a
central role in the promotion of equitable gender policies and anti-violence interventions. The successful
implementation of this LIL will make a substantial contribution to the design of more effective projects
that improve the well being of poor men and women by increasing gender equity and addressing norms,
expectations, and values that lead to gender inequality and discrimination.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[x] Economic [ ] Financial [x] Technical [x] Institutional
[x] Social [ ] Environmental [x] Participation [ ] Other
(a) Economic. The LIL is expected to provide important lessons about how to identify and overcome
institutional obstacles to equal access of poor women to productive, sustainable projects. Even if the
institutional procedures are adequate and appropriate, there may still be weak demand for services due to
gender roles or the lack of capacity. The LIL will analyze the impact of sensitization of both men and
women on gender roles in public and private arenas and the provision of training and technical assistance
on the demand for services. In addition, diverse project activities and approaches will be assessed
through the monitoring and evaluation system in order to identify comparative costs per beneficiary,
comparative advantages, and barriers.
(b) Technical. The LIL will: (i) develop a participatory evaluation and monitoring system in which
beneficiary's concerns are included and considered as indicators of the project's impacts and
performance; (ii) assess the impact of poverty alleviation programs by gender; and (iii) develop the
capacity of multiple actors to understand gender issues, particularly the role of socialization on the
development of gender roles, and plan equitable gender policies with equitable gender outcomes, as part
of development policies. The LIL will also test the advantages and disadvantages of institution-based and
civic-based approaches to address gender equity issues.



Page 8
(c) Institutional. The LIL will work through existing institutions to provide information on: (i) how to
develop the capacity of local municipalities to understand and apply a gendered approach to public and
social policies; (ii) how to provide incentives to the private sector to promote more equitable human
resources, recruitment and benefits policies for both men and women, for instance, recognizing the right
of women to promotion but also the paternal responsibilities and rights of men; and (iii) how to introduce
gender concerns and criteria within social programs addressed to the poor.
(d) Social. The LIL will provide opportunities to learn about: (i) how to promote a sustainable expansion
of female participation in public life both as economic agents and as community leaders; and (ii) the
benefits of female participation in the labor force and men's increasing involvement in the private sphere
on the promotion of community values and peaceful sociability among youth, particularly anti-domestic
violence against women and children and anti-violent attitudes among young men.
(e) Participation. The LIL incorporates a participatory monitoring and evaluation process with the
participation of civil society in the review and discussion of the lessons learned from the project activities.
The expectations are to learn: (i) how to develop mechanisms for informed stakeholder participation in
monitoring and evaluation processes; (ii) how to foster male and female leader's involvement within the
communities where they live; and (iii) what are the most effective means of strengthening a women's
group for the planning and implementation of sustainable income generation activities.
(f) Convive Program. The issue of family and community violence is a complex and often difficult issue
to address. The LIL will initiate a mutual learning process on this issue through the Convive Program, a
small demand-driven grant program which will fund projects with the potential to stimulate peaceful
coexistence among men and women. This program is the first to be developed within Mexico and the
lessons learned from it will potentially benefit other interventions designed to reduce violence among men
and women and/or to foster a stronger sense of community at the local levels.
(g) Finally, since this gender LIL will be the first to be implemented within the region, the lessons learned
will help decide whether: (i) it could be expanded to a greater number of beneficiaries; (ii) whether other
sectoral projects could take the same gender approach; or (iii) whether it could in its entirety or in its
components, be replicated in other countries.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Il:ndicative    i     Bank-        %E Tof
Component                  Sector          costs       04 of   financing,    Bank-
___ iii(0::00   f;  :j:00j:003  ;i;  :::j:  :X:Si  : ::;    : :US$MM  T otal  (US$MI  financing
1. Institutionalization of Gender   Institutional       1.12     29.0       0.88       78.6
Approach in Poverty-         Development
alleviation Programs
2. Community-Based Gender        Gender and              1.82    47.3       1.47       80.8
Development                  Development
3. Gender Awareness              Communication          0.91     23.6       0.69       75.8
Total Project Costs*       3.85    100         3.03 a/    78.7
Front-end fee        0.03    1.0        0.03        100
Total Financing Required        3.87 a! 100         3.07 a/    79.0
a/total amounts do not add due to rounding.
*Includes Physical and Price Contingencies.



Page 9
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional arrangements are designed to build upon the positive and diverse experiences of the
executing agency SEDESOL in the implementation of social development programs, while strengthening
the capacity of the agency to address gender equity. The project will be implemented over a period of
two years (July 2000 to June 2002).
SEDESOL's Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento (Monitoring and Evaluation General
Directorate - DGES) will have oversight responsibility for ProGenero. DGES was created in 1982 with
the objective to establish the frameworks for the monitoring and evaluation of SEDESOL and other
federally-funded poverty alleviation programs.
The Direcci6n de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender and Development Division - DGD) within the DGES
will coordinate the administrative and logistical aspects of project implementation. DGD was created in
July 1999 to oversee and coordinate international gender initiatives related to SEDESOL's programs,
such as Beijing +5. Rather than create a new institution to function as the Project Coordinating Unit,
DGD will have this role. DGD will be responsible for all project implementation activities, including
accounting, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, coordination, and supervision. DGD is managed
by a General Coordinator who will be supported by specialists on communication, strategic planning,
monitoring and evaluation and financial administration, in addition to administrative support. Short-term
consultants will be hired for special tasks, when necessary. Since DGD is a relatively new division, the
project will support technical assistance to strengthen its institutional capacity as part of the Institutional
Strengthening Component. The Operations Manual details all the procedures to be followed during
implementation.
Although DGD is responsible for project implementation, supervision and accountability, it will work
collaboratively with the DGES, other SEDESOL programs and govemment agencies, and in close
coordination with states, municipalities and local communities. Specifically, DGD will coordinate with
the following programs and/or decentralized entities within SEDESOL: (a) with FONAES on the
implementation of the support to productive projects sub-component; (b) with the Instituto Nacional de
Desarrollo Social (National Institute of Social Development - INDESOL) on aspects related to training
and capacity building; and (c) with the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute - INI)
for the transmission of specific campaigns in indigenous languages. In addition, DGD will work with
SEDESOL's Task Force on Gender and CONMUJER. For the Convive Program and recognition honors,
DGD will be assisted by a committee with representatives from the government, civil society and
academia, which will follow the criteria as established in the Operations Manual for the prioritization and
the selection of proposals.
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management. Procurement, disbursement, and financial
management arrangements have been discussed in detail and agreed upon with SEDESOL. An overall
assessment of the procurement capacity of SEDESOL and a specific assessment of the capacity of DGD
was carried out by the Mexico Resident Mission. Annex 5 contains a description of the procurement and
disbursement arrangements covering goods, consultant services and training, and Convive Program
grants. A Bank-certified Financial Management Specialist carried out an assessment of DGD during
project preparation. Based on this assessment, DGD is not currently eligible for Project Management
Report-based disbursements. The disbursement arrangements will be traditional disbursement
procedures. Migration to PMR-based type of disbursements will be analyzed by the Bank and Borrower
during the second implementation year, however, by January 31, 2000 DGD will complete an action plan
to prepare agreed semester PMRs. These arrangements will be reflected in the Operations Manual of the
project.



Page 10
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements. The project will maintain project accounts
in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Bank, as required by the Financial
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). DGD and the Borrower will have the records
and accounts of the project for each fiscal year audited, with a separate opinion with respect to the
Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account, by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The Secretaria de la Controloriay Desarrollo Administraci6n (Ministry of Control and
Administration Development) SECODAM will audit all project operations (on an annual basis), as
described in the Operations Manual and as established in the Memordndum de Entendimiento Tecnico
(Technical Memorandum of Understanding - MET). The requirements for accounting, financial
reporting, and auditing are described in detail in Annex 5 and the Operations Manual.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
DGD would have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring and evaluation. On an
annual basis, beginning in 2001, DGD would prepare a Project Implementation Report covering project
implementation activities and monitoring and evaluation indicators during the previous year and an
Annual Operating Plan for the following year.
ProGenero will pilot and learn from both community-based and institutional approaches to promoting
gender equity. Since there is limited operational experience with a gender approach focusing on both
male and female perspectives, the LIL would provide a learning opportunity for mainstreaming gender in
future operations. The monitoring and evaluation system is designed to analyze different types of
interventions and incentives to create models that can be replicated in other areas and sectors.
The Task Force on Gender will play an important role in facilitation civil society participation in the
monitoring and evaluation process and disseminating lessons learned. The system will be guided by
causality criteria to assess the process and results in each step to support decision-making. The indicators
will be complemented by qualitative data to enhance participation, incorporate beneficiaries' perceptions,
and create an opportunity for them to provide feedback. Invited members of selected women's groups
and implementing partners, as part of a participatory monitoring and evaluation team, will contribute their
perceptions and opinions of the project implementation process on an ongoing basis, throughout the
timeframe of the project and as part of the mid-term review and final impact evaluation reports. Male and
female beneficiaries from each component will participate in the effort, including women participating in
productive projects, community leaders, NGOs, Convive Program participants, and SEDESOL and
FONAES staff. Municipal authorities in selected communities, the private sector, and trainers will also
contribute to the monitoring and evaluation process. The monitoring and evaluation system will be
systematically documented to enhance the learning process within SEDESOL and among other Ministries
and civil society organizations, and to exchange experiences with other projects in Mexico and in other
countries. Civil society will participate through the Task Force on Gender and other organizations to be
consulted during project implementation. The monitoring and evaluation system follows the logical
framework of the LIL, assessing component performance, outputs, and impacts.
A recent study by the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) highlights the
insufficiency of existing targets and indicators for monitoring women's progress in relation to equality of
opportunity. ProGenero will contribute to the development of global indicators for monitoring women's
empowerment and gender equity issues.
(a) Component Performance. The indicators to monitor component performance will assess the
adequacy of budgeting and programming and timely provision of inputs. Project activities such as
recognition honors, the Convive Program, productive activities, training of leaders, and promotional
campaigns will be evaluated to identify comparative costs per beneficiary, participation rates,
possible side effects, comparative advantages, and obstacles. When applicable, the monitoring will
include comparisons between different pilot regions and the various institutions involved.



Page 1 1
(b) Component Outputs. The quantitative indicators of the Logical Framework will be complemented
by qualitative information from women participating in training activities and benefiting from
technical assistance, the Convive Program, and leadership programs. The process will help to test: (i)
alternative rnethods within each component; (ii) comparisons between components; and (iii)
comparison between regions as part of the learning process.
(c) Project Impact. Project impact will be assessed through the comparison between the baseline study
conducted at the outset of the project and the results from an accumulation of beneficiary assessment
experiences throughout the Monitoring and Evaluation timeframe (as part of the M & E
multidisciplinary team). The beneficiary assessments will cover a representative sample of the main
project components and pilot regions. This assessment will allow for a comprehensive analysis of the
project to identify issues, constraints, and lessons learned with respect to the type of components and
the pilot regions. The LIL and its components will also be evaluated for their replication potential in
other countries.
Baseline. The baseline study will include gender disaggregated data and be developed by integrating the
results of several studies to be carried out under the project including: (a) an assessment of SEDESOL
projects; (b) an assessment of FONAES productive projects financed in the last two years; (c) data
provided by participants in the various components; and (d) a regional analysis to select pilotareas.
Representative indicators from these studies will be incorporated into the monitoring and evaluation
system.
Reports. The monitoring and evaluation system includes three types of reports: (a) Operational Reports
of each component to be prepared according to the performance monitoring indicators timetable; (b) a
Mid-term Evaluation Report incorporating beneficiaries' views -to be prepared at the end of the first year
and disseminated to civil society; and (c) an Impact Evaluation Report to be produced at the end of
second year consisting of results from the beneficiary assessment and main lessons learned to be
disseminated among federal and local governments and civil society.
D: Project Rationale:
N/A: Not completed in the LIL PAD. Project rationale should be implicit in Section B.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
The project has not been subjected to a conventional economic rate of return analysis since its immediate
objectives and outputs are either primarily institutional or involve changes in behavior. The project will
generate the following non-quantifiable economic benefits: (a) more equitable access and demand for
SEDESOL's poverty-targeted productive projects; (b) greater awareness about gender equity in family
life and the community; (c) enhanced institutional capacity to met the needs of male and female
beneficiaries; (d) increased awareness among community leaders, municipalities, and the private sector
about gender equity; and (e) integration of men and women, youth, children, civil society organizations,
and communities in equitable community activities. In addition, as part of the LIL's monitoring and
evaluation system, the different approaches and activities incorporated into the project will be assessed
through a cost-benefit analysis.
2. Financial
ProGdnero is a pilot project and full cost recovery is not a project objective. However, fiscal
sustainability is an important consideration in the design of this LIL. Although SEDESOL has committed
itself to institutionalizing a gender approach in its poverty-alleviation programs, at present, the current
level of public expenditure on gender and women in development initiatives is low. The planned



Page 12
investments in the project, such as the training of SEDESOL staff and the development of gender-oriented
informational materials, have low recurrent cost implications and may be replicated in other ministries.
As part of the Institutional Strengthening under Component 1, DGD will monitor and assess the costs for
the institutionalization of gender in SEDESOL programs. In addition, the project will explore, through
the Convive Program, measures to involve local communities and organizations in the financing and
maintenance of the small projects. For instance, successful proposals to the Convive Program will
include a 10 percent minimum contribution on the part of the beneficiary.
3. Technical:
The proposed LIL will test the introduction of diverse mechanisms at different levels for operationalizing
a gender approach in development projects. The LIL will carry out actions to promote changes in
behavior at three levels and evaluate the results through participatory monitoring and evaluation. These
instruments were identified to maximize effective actions in the short-run and provide a range of piloting
from large-scale public relations to a small grants program. The different levels include: (a) institutional-
- the introduction of a gender perspective in SEDESOL through awareness raising seminars and
workshops, a review of norms and procedures for Ramo 26 programs, and the introduction of an
information system with a gender focus; (b) community-based partnerships-- support to productive
activities, capacity building and technical assistance to women's groups in FONAES areas and for NGOs,
leadership training, and grants in the Convive Program; and (c) civic incentives--public information
campaigns and a recognition and honors program for pioneering private and public sector gender
initiatives utilizing the power of positive reinforcement and a strong public relations campaign to transmit
new ideas and successful experiences to a wide audience.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: SEDESOL/ Direcci6n General de Evaluacion y Seguimiento (DGES)
b. Project management: Direcci6n de Generoy Desarrollo (DGD)
Representatives of the Direcci6n General de Programas de Desarrollo Regional (General Directorate of
Regional Development Programs) in SEDESOL and from the Direcci6n de Credito Pzublico (Directorate
of Public Credit), Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pzublico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit -
SHCP) have participated in all preparation activities from inception, commenting not only on financial
aspects of projects, but on its concept, design, and components. Representatives from NAFIN have also
demonstrated strong support to the objectives of the project and have participated in technical discussions
regarding financial and disbursement arrangements.
In 1999, SEDESOL adopted two important goals to facilitate improved gender equity. The first was to
ensure that 50 percent of resources for poverty-alleviation programs are targeted to women; while the
second goal was to ensure that all programs include a gender perspective. As part of their responsibility,
DGES: (a) evaluates the results and socio-economic impact of social and regional development programs;
(b) supports and coordinates monitoring and evaluation activities for the administrative entities of the
Sub-Secretary of Regional Development, in addition to other sectoral bodies; (c) carries out field-based
studies and investigations with beneficiaries of federally funded poverty-alleviation programs; and (d)
develops proposals based on evaluation results.
An institutional assessment of SEDESOL's capacity to address problems of gender inequity in its
programs was carried out in October/November 1999 as part of the Gender Capacity-building Technical
Assistance Grant. The findings of this study confirm that in spite of progress made in the creation of
DGD, a lack of understanding exists in other programmatic areas about how to incorporate a gender
approach into poverty-alleviation programs. Due to SEDESOL's limited experience in delivering
successful gender-oriented programs, a critical component of the LIL is the institutionalization of a
gender approach in its programs through training and capacity-building.



Page 13
The institutional assessment of FONAES revealed several issues related to the capacity of both
SEDESOL and the beneficiaries. For example, although no disaggregated data is systematically gathered
on the presence of women and the demand from women's organizations is comparatively low, several
women's organizations do exist. Among these organizations, the tendency is for women to pursue
"traditional" types of projects, such as tortilla making, which do not yield favorable profits. fn general,
the study found that women's vision of productivity differs from that of men. Women are more interested
in providing for basic needs, whereas men are more interested in generating income. The study also
reveals that women appear to be more responsible financially and have a higher rate of recuperating
credit. The study recommends that training is carried out in what gender and the gender approach to
development means for all levels within SEDESOL so that all staff speak a common language about
gender. Additionally, the study proposes the training of women and the promotion of women's
organizations to improve their access to credit, demand for services, and participation in "non-traditional"
productive projects. These activities are incorporated into the design of the ProGenero LIL.
5. Social:
In Mexican society today, poverty and lack of equity are the main problems which affect women and
children in particular. Although progress in education, health standards and female participation in the
labor force are important, there are substantial variations by region and poverty strata. Fertility rates are
double among rural, uneducated women than women in urban areas (4.1 versus 2.4 children per woman)
and between poor states such as Chiapas as compared to Mexico City or Nuevo Leon. Poverty has also
had a different impact depending on gender roles. Women are still mostly responsible for domestic tasks
and many do not receive any income or they are concentrated in low-income activities. Deficiency
backlogs in water and sanitation services, electricity, and rural isolation particularly affect women. Men,
perceived as the head of the family and main income earner, have experienced higher rates of
unemployment that have affected their self-confidence, particularly among the youth, leading to drug
abuse, alcoholism and violence. Public services and institutions have not yet adjusted to respond to these
new employment patterns and changes in family structure. In spite of these changes and the increasing
influence of international trends and globalization, traditional gender roles are widespread in Mexican
society. The LIL aims to support the positive impacts of recent changes through poverty reduction
programs while promoting gender equity and increasing social awareness about gender and development.
The LIL is designed to approach gender equity as an innovative learning experience addressing potential
benefits and issues affecting both men and women with piloting of different approaches in different
regions with close monitoring and evaluation. The main beneficiaries in the proposed LIL are SEDESOL
staff in central and regional offices, NGOs, community-based organizations, women's productive
organizations, and male and female beneficiaries of SEDESOL projects in the areas where the LIL will be
implementing pilot activities. In cases where indigenous communities are in the pilot areas, strategies
have been incorporated to enhance their equal participation in the projects in a culturally appropriate
fashion. The LIL will finance a baseline study and a participatory monitoring and evaluation system
designed to evaluate the impact of pilot activities. An assessment of gender in SEDESOL programs was
carried out in 1999, the results of which will provide the basis for the first steps in social monitoring. A
beneficiary assessment will be carried out at project completion to determine project impact.
As part of preparation, a participatory rural appraisal (PRA) was carried out with migratory farm workers
in Sinaloa to collect information on gender interactions and roles and identify origin communities in the
southern states for consideration as pilots for the Convive Program. The findings from this study point to
differences in gender roles, the burden of domestic work on women and children, and changing gender
roles as families are exposed to different traditions in the North. These and other findings are part of a
participation process that has been used during preparation and will continue during implementation.



Page 14
6. Environmental assessment:           Environmental Category  [ ] A    [ ] B    [x] C
No environmental impacts are anticipated from the proposed project activities.
7. Participatory approach:
The proposed project was prepared through a participatory approach based on consultation with relevant
stakeholders and it complements the work already initiated by the Task Force on Gender in the
Consultative Group on Social Development in SEDESOL. Two consultative workshops were carried out
to design the project involving public sector officials, NGOs, civil society organizations, United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), members from academia and international gender specialists. The
project components were designed to follow a participatory pattern, providing incentives to promote
community organization, the active participation of women and youth, and gender equity in productive
projects, local communities and in SEDESOL programs. This approach will ensure ownership and
sustainability through the promotion of good practices.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
Risk                       Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Possible changes in priorities due to results from  S         ProGenero counterpart funds for 1999
upcoming presidential elections resulting in                 have already been assigned and for the
counterpart funds not being available or timely.              year 2000, they will be assigned by the
current government.
The Task Force on Gender within
SEDESOL, with representatives of all
major political parties, participated in
project design and it has strong
ownership regarding project objectives.
Project preparation has involved
representatives from SHCP and
NAFIN.
Reduced support for the project due to lack of  M             The project was designed to be
continuity in the SEDESOL team because of                    implemented over a two year period to
upcoming presidential elections.                              ensure that the critical project staff
continue in their positions for most of
the project duration.
The involvement of representatives
from different political parties during
preparation also mitigates the risk.



Page 15
From Components to Outputs
Gender approach is not fully incorporated by  M              SEDESOL managers and program staff
SEDESOL programs (FONAES, Jornaleros                         will participate in the training and
Agricolas and selected INI programs)                         awareness raising seminars.
Lack of interest from the private sector and  N              The project will provide incentives,
municipalities to participate in the recognition sub-        such as public recognition and publicity
component.                                                   campaigns, to encourage their
participation.
Low demand for participation in productive   N               The project will be implemented in
activities, leadership training, and Convive Program.        pilot areas where there are productive
activities implemented by SEDESOL.
Specific campaigns will be developed
and widely disseminated to enhance
participation.
Overall Risk Rating                          M              I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None identified.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Presentation of final version of Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) NAFIN, as the Borrower, will sign an agreement with the Guarantor as the Executing Agency to
transfer loan proceeds.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[XI 2. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] 3. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
None.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.



Page 16
Tem    Taria-Valdria Junlho Pena
Sector Dir kr Guillermo Perry
Sector Director: John Redwood
Country DirectoI: Oli4ier Lafourcade



Page 17
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
Hierarchy of                Key Performance               Monitoring and                 Critical
Objectives                     Indicators                   Evaluation               Assumptions
Sector-related CAS          Sector Indicators:                Sector / Country          (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                         Reports:                  Mission)
Promotion of marginal
impact on poverty reduction
and increased social
sustainability.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
The well being of poor
Mexican men and women has
the potential for positive
improvement by the
ProGenero's encouragement
of gender equity by
addressing expectations and
values that lead to inequality
and discrimination in the
areas covered by the project.
Project Development         Outcome Impact Indicators:  Project Reports:                (from Objective to
Objective:                                                                              Goal)
To facilitate the mutual    Decrease in the gender gap in     Supervision reports.
learning and piloting of    access to services between men    Assessment of workshops   Counterpart funds are
community-based initiatives   and women benefiting from       and campaigns carried out.  available and timely.
to promote gender equity and   SEDESOL programns by 5 % at the   Ongoing participatory
improved access to          end of the first year and 12% in the  beneficiary assessment.
government supported        second year.
income generation programs
in the context of Mexico's  Increase of 15% in women's
strategy for poverty reduction  participation in FONAES
and social sustainability.  productive projects by the end of
the 2nd year.
Greater awareness about gender
equity in the family and in the
community at end of project.



Page 18
Output from each            Output Indicators:               Project Reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                             Objective)
I. SEDESOL's capacity to    1. I SEDESOL programs reviewed   Supervision reports.     Counterpart funds are
incorporate a gender       to identify gender bias and suggest  Assessment of campaigns   available and timely.
dimension in its poverty    policy and program process       carried out.
reduction mandate and       changes to reflect more equity   Ongoing participatory     Support for the project is
service delivery programs is   between men and women within    beneficiary assessment.    sustained in spite of
strengthened.               programs by the end of the 2nd                            possible political changes
year.                                                     and possible lack of
1.2 A number of key management                            continuity in the
and technical personnel trained to                        SEDESOL team because
incorporate a gender equity                               of upcoming presidential
approach (40% first year; 70%                             elections.
second year).
1.3 Gender training workshops
carried out for SEDESOL staff (10
first year, 7 second year).
2. Gendered access to income  2.1 Increase of 15% percent in
generation programs is      women's participation in
increased through capacity-    FONAES's productive projects by
building and technical      the end of the project.
assistance and leadership   2.2. At least 60 community leaders
opportunities for women and   (20 men, 40 women) trained to
men are advanced by        improve awareness about the
supporting community-based   relationship between gender and
approaches to gender.       development in first year; 100
community leaders (30 men, 70
women) in second year.
2.3. At least one subproject to
improve gender interactions and
awareness of constraints to gender
socialization is carried out
annually in selected communities
benefiting from Convive Program.
2.4. Community leaders in selected
regions develop initiatives to
promote equity in gender roles.
3. Gender awareness and     3. 1. At least 30 municipalities
understanding among critical  compete for the recognition honor
stakeholder groups is       of best gender programs.
increased.                  3.2. At least 20 private businesses
compete for the recognition honor
of best gender programs.
3.3. At the end of the second year
at least one campaign on
promotion of peaceful sociability
within the family and in the
community has been designed and
implemented.
3.3. At the end of the second year,
at least two campaigns to support
the project have been
implemented.
3.4 At least 3 sectoral media
campaigns are disseminated by INI
in indigenous languages.



Page 19
Project                     Inputs: (budget for each         Project Reports:         (from Components to
Components/Sub-             component)                                                Outputs)
components:                 I . US$ 1.12 million.            Supervision reports.     SEDESOL staffs ability to
1. Institutionalization of                                  Assessment of campaigns   integrate gender awareness
Gender Approach in Poverty-                                  carried out.             and gender equity planning
alleviation Programs.                                        Ongoing participatory    into SEDESOL programs
beneficiary assessment.    is strengthened.
(i) Capacity-building and    (i) US$0.67 million.                                   Sufficient interest from the
studies                                                                             private sector to participate
(ii) Institutional                                                                  in the recognition sub-
strengthening of DGD      (ii) US$0.45 million.                                     component.
2. Community-Based Gender  2. US$1.82 million                                         Demand for participation
Development                                                                           in productive activities,
leadership training, and
(i) Support to Productive    (i) US$0.96 million.                                   Convive Program exists.
Activities
(ii) Leadership Capacity-    (ii) US$0.14 million.
building
(iii) Convive Program     (iii) US$0.72 million.
3. Gender Awareness.        3.US$0.91 million
(i) Promotional Campaign   (i) US$ 0.51 million.
(ii) Sectoral Media       (ii) US$0.29 million.
Campaigns
(iii) Recognition Honors    (iii) US$0.11 million.



Page 20
Annex 2: Project Description
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
The development objective of Gender Equity Project-ProGenero is to facilitate the mutual learning and
piloting of community-based initiatives intended to promote gender equity and improved access to
government supported income generation programs in the context of Mexico's strategy for poverty
reduction and social sustainability. ProGenero would test a gender approach in the public sector that
targets both men and women and it would provide a learning opportunity for mainstreaming gender in
future operations. The following three components have been designed to achieve this objective.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$ 1.12 million
Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty-alleviation Programs
The institutionalization of a gender perspective in SEDESOL is designed to ensure improved gender
equity in the access to opportunities, and resources of social and economic development programs. This
component is designed to strengthen activities that are currently being implemented in SEDESOL and
build upon and compliment the efforts initiated by the Mesa De Trabajo sobre Enfoque de Genero (Task
Force on Gender Approach). This component comprises the following sub-components:
1. Capacity-building and Studies - This sub-component comprises the following actions:
(a) design and implementation of awareness raising seminars and workshops to build the capacity of
SEDESOL employees and raise their awareness of gender issues in the day-to-day operations of
programs aimed at poverty reduction, including the development of gender-oriented didactic
materials for internal dissemination;
(b) conduct a review of the norms, standards, processes, and procedures of SEDESOL poverty
alleviation programs (Ramo 26), propose pertinent actions and modifications, assess potential
barriers to access, develop materials for dissemination to explain changes in norms, and
incorporate changes into the monitoring and evaluation system; and
(c) implement and monitor an information system with a gender foczus in coordination with
CONMUJER by integrating the statistical system for social development data (SISEMIS module)
to enable the generation of disaggregated statistics with incorporation of the baseline study. This
activity includes training SEDESOL program staff on the generation of gender-based statistics and
indicators.
2. Institutional Strengthening of the Gender and Development Unit to strengthen the capacity of the
newly-established Direcci6n de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender and Development Division - DGD) to
realize the project objectives through the provision of: (a) technical resources through training in gender
issues; (b) human resources by use of communication, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation, and
financial administrative specialists; and (c) material resources through the acquisition of necessary
computer equipment. The DGD General Coordinator position is funded by SEDESOL.
Project Component 2 - US$1.82 million Community-based Gender Development
The objective of this component is to promote community-based actions to improve equity in
opportunities for men and women, peaceful sociability, and respect to the dignity of all social groups,
regardless of sex and ethnicity. The geographic targeting of pilot regions and communities and the
eligibility criteria for selection and participation in each subcomponent are detailed in the Operations
Manual. This process was based on strategic choices of regions and communities where ProGenero
activities can have a great impact in the short run, with characteristics such as, areas undergoing an



Page 21
economic transition with the introduction of maquiladoras and international investment and those with a
strong community life, advanced organizational level, and an active social and cultural sector. This
component is comprised of the following sub-components:
1. Support to Productive Activities to foster more equitable access to and demand for financial and
institutional support for the development of small, sustainable income generating projects. This sub-
component comprises the following actions:
(a) capacity-building and technical assistance to selected women 's groups working in areas where
FONAES is active on: (i) productive project preparation; (ii) credit management requirements;
(iii) management capacity; and (iv) development of non-traditional projects. NGOs with
experience in women's micro-enterprise development will be contracted to develop and conduct
the training. Women's groups will prepare and submit proposals for technical assistance with the
support of the NGOs. For training activities, there is a minimum matching contribution of 20
percent.
(b) capacity-building and technical assistance to NGOs which work in the area of productive projects
but without a gender focus in: (i) transfer of knowledge to potential beneficiaries; (ii)
development of productive projects with a gender focus; (iii) gender-focused community
organization; (iv) participatory monitoring and evaluation with gender focus; and (v) improved
promotion of productive projects. A consultant or NGO with expertise in the field will be selected
to develop and conduct the training. NGOS will prepare and submit proposals for technical
assistance.
(c) strengthening of resources in technical assistance through: (i) development of an accessible
directory and database for the identification of organizations with the capacity to provide technical
assistance in critical areas of productive projects; (ii) implementation of dissemination and
awareness raising workshops to establish and strengthen resources for technical assistance in
FONAES; (iii) establishment of agreements with universities and higher education institutions,
high schools for professionals and business chambers who provide technical assistance.
2. Leadership Capacity-building to strengthen, from a gender perspective, the civic participation of
female leaders in order to empower them in the public and private sectors, and raise the awareness of
male leaders of the changes in gender roles in Mexican society. This sub-component will be carried out
through training programs developed specifically for male and female leaders in regions with a high
incidence in male migration and in areas with a high incidence of female employment. The areas selected
will overlap in part with that of the Support to Productive Activities sub-component and in part with the
Convive Program in order to better understand how increased leadership may effect outcomes in those
programs and to learn from leadership building in regions with distinct characteristics. Eligible
candidates include leaders from community and peasant organizations, small businesses, health and
education projects, municipalities or parents' commissions. To compliment the training program,
exchanges will be held with male and female leaders to transfer successful experiences of gender-focused
initiatives. NGOs will be selected to carry out the program and will be required to design participatory
methodologies and elaborate a capacity-building manual.
3. "Convive"Program to enhance community life and peaceful sociability and foster tolerance in
community life by providing small grants through demand driven and competitive mechanisms to civil
society organizations. The program coverage will be national and the menu of possible activities will
include cultural, recreational, educational and environmental programs with the participation of men and
women in equitable terms. The menu will be open to enable innovation in project proposals. In order to
promote learning opportunities on how to stimulate peaceful coexistence among men and women, the
projects should address issues of sustainability and include a methodology and the expected social impact
in the region or in the community. Proposals for sub-projects may not exceed $10,000 and should include
a minimum community contribution of 10 percent. Eligibility criteria and procedures are detailed in the
Operations Manual.



Page 22
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.91 million Gender Awareness
This component will promote awareness with regard to the value of equitable relations between men and
women by transmitting new ideas and successful experiences that can be replicated throughout urban and
rural Mexico. This component is comprised of the following sub-components:
1. Promotional Campaign of PROGENERO to broadly disseminate the general objectives and goals of
the project among governmental institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public through:
(a) workshop to launch ProGdnero with national coverage; and (b) creation of a slogan, logo, radio,
television and print promotional spots and print publicity materials for dissemination by a public relations
firm. The DGD will try to optimize official mass media spots to increase dissemination without
increasing costs. A communication specialist within the DGD will assist with the development and
implementation of all campaigns and promotional activities.
2. Sectoral Media Campaigns to raise awareness of the general population, focusing on social
expectations of gender roles, equitable access to income generation opportunities, and the value of trust
and a non violent sociability in the family and in the community. In addition to the forms of
communication detailed above, sectoral campaigns will be promoted by INI through their radio spots in
indigenous languages in order to increase demand and enhance the participation of potential organized
indigenous women's groups in project activities. Campaigns will also be coordinated with the Social
Subsidy program,' which reaches more marginalized and isolated regions through two distributors the
Distribudoray Comercializada, CONASOPO S.A. (DICONSA) and Leche Industrializada, CONASOPO
S.A. (LICONSA).
3. Recognition and Honors - The objective of this sub-component is to identify, disseminate and
promote successful innovative gender experiences in the private and public sector. The honors will
consist of incentives for the recognition and positive reinforcement of successful innovative projects and
best practices that have been carried out or completed in the last two years by different local and private
associations. Honors, in the form of non-monetary recognition, will be prioritized to the private sector for
human relations, salaries, recruitment and benefits policies, and actions with positive impacts on gender
discrimination and working conditions for men and women. Similarly, local municipalities that have
prioritized actions which promote gender equity and better living conditions for men and women will
receive recognition honors. Both types of honors will be received in ceremonies in Mexico City with
extensive promotion.
'The Social Subsidies - Abasto Social - Program provides staple products to the poor in marginalized or isolated
areas in order to ensure good prices and sufficient distribution.



Page 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
Local.       Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                        US $ million
1. Institutionalization of Gender Approach
Capacity-building and Studies              0.53           0.10          0.63
Institutional Strengthening of DGD         0.28           0.14          0.42
Subtotal                                   0.81           0.24          1.05
2. Community-based Gender Development
Support to Productive Activities           0.59           0.32          0.91
Leadership Capacity-building               0.10           0.03          0.13
"Convive" Program                          0.69           0.00          0.69
Subtotal                                   1.38           0.35          1.73
3. Gender Awareness
Promotional Campaign                        0.44          0.03          0.47
Sectoral Media Campaigns                    0.24          0.02           0.26
Recognition and Honors                      0.10          0.01           0.11
Subtotal                                    0.78          0.06           0.84
Total Baseline Cost                           2.96 a]       0.66 a/        3.62
Physical Contingencies                     0.09          0.01           0.10
Price Contingencies                        0.10          0.02           0.12
Total Project Costs      3.15           0.69          3.84
Front-end fee     0.00           0.03          0.03
Total Financing          3.15           0.72          3.87
Required
a/Totals do not add due to rounding.
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost-by Category                       US $ million
Goods                                         0.20          0.00           0.20
Consultant Services and Training              1.93          0.69           2.62
Grants for Convive Program                    0.69          0.00           0.69
Recurrent Costs                               0.33          0.00           0.33
Total Project Costs       3.15          0.69          3.84
Front-end fee     0.00           0.03          0.03
Total Financing           3.15          0.72          3.87
Required



Page 24
2000        2001      2002      Total,
Project Components by Year                          US O$'000
Totals including contingencies
1. institutionalization of Gender Approach
Capacity Building and Studies            233.9         271.1     168.4      673.4
Institutional Strengthening of DGD       126.8         195.7     119.8     442.3
Subtotal                                 360.6         466.8     288.2   1,115.6
2. Community-based Gender Development
Support to Productive Activities                       510.3     453.9     964.2
Leadership Capacity Building                            39.2      99.1      138.2
CONVIVE Program                                        422.3     294.0      716.3
Subtotal                                               971.7     847.0   1,818.7
3. Gender Awareness
Promotional Campaign                     134.4         268.9      100.7     509.0
Sectoral Media Campaigns                               189.0      96.3      285.3
Recognition and Honors                                  59.1      60.2      119.3
Subtotal                                 134.4         517.1     257.2      913.7
Front End Fee                                30.7                              30.7
Total including        530.7        1,955.5   1,392.5   3,878.7
contingencies



Page 25
Annex 4: Social Assessment
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
Social Assessment and Participation
The proposed LIL is designed to approach gender equity as an innovative learning experience by
addressing potential benefits and issues affecting both men and women and piloting different instruments
with close monitoring and evaluation. The main beneficiaries are SEDESOL staff in central and regional
offices, NGOs, community-based organizations, women's productive organizations, and male and female
beneficiaries of SEDESOL projects in the areas where the LIL will be implementing pilot activities. The
geographic targeting of pilot regions and definition of eligibility criteria are defined in the Operations
Manual. In cases where indigenous communities are in the pilot areas, strategies have been incorporated
to enhance their equal participation in the projects in a culturally appropriate manner.
Project preparation included a Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) with migratory farm workers in
Sinaloa and consultation activities with relevant stakeholders. The LIL will finance a baseline study and
a participatory monitoring and evaluation system designed to evaluate the impact of pilot activities. The
findings of the institutional assessment of SEDESOL, the analysis of FONAES productive projects and a
regional analysis currently under preparation will provide the first steps in establishing the monitoring
system. Through the monitoring and evaluation system, there will be opportunities for input and
evaluation from different stakeholders, including SEDESOL staff, FONAES program staff, male and
female beneficiaries in the pilot regions, women's organizations, NGOs, municipalities, and the general
public. Project impact will be assessed through a comparison between the baseline study and the results
from a beneficiary assessment conducted at project completion.
The design of the proposed LIL has benefited from two recent studies that analyze the key issues
affecting social development in Mexico: (a) background analysis for the Beijing+5 Document on Women
and Poverty that presents the advances on the Action Plan from the Beijing Conference in 1995; and (b)
the institutional assessment of gender in SEDESOL programs. According to conventional indicators to
quantify women's improvements in Mexican society, such as literacy rate, maternal mortality and
employment, their conditions have improved in recent decades. However, these studies illustrate that
women do not benefit from programs in equal proportion as men, unless the project is explicitly geared
towards them. Poverty and inequality continue to be persistent and growing problems. The percentage of
the Mexican population living in poverty increased from 34 percent in 1984 to 43 percent in 1996
(CEPAL Panorama Social 1998) and there are marked disparities among regions and between rural and
urban areas and ethnic groups. Poverty also affects men and women differently and for both genders,
there may be different restrictions or opportunities to participation in income-generation programs. Male
employment levels in Mexico have declined, resulting in the loss of the male status in the household and
related problems such as violence, drug and alcohol abuse, and depression. Women normally handle a
large amount of domestic work in the household and poor or non-existent public services such as water
and sanitation, often limits their participation in productive activities, public events, political participation
or in leadership roles.
Inequalities between men and women are pervasive and remain sources of conflict in the family and the
community and a handicap for social development. These problems, the changes, and ongoing conflicts
affecting both men and women were discussed during project preparation. Due to the difficulty of
addressing such a complex situation, strategic choices were made to promote activities that can have a
great impact on the short run, in selected regions, and involve groups keen on accepting changes. The
main areas of action comprise: (a) incorporating a gender approach in the public sector; (b) developing
incentives to promote better gender interaction in community life and in the work place; and (c)
strengthening the role of women as leaders and as productive agents.



Page 26
Participatory Rural Appraisal. As part of preparation, a participatory rural appraisal (PRA) was carried
out with farm workers in Sinaloa. Other participatory analyses will continue during implementation. The
farm workers migrate from southern states, such as Oaxaca and Guerrero, to the North to work on the
vegetable farms. The main objective of the PRA was to collect information on gender interactions, roles,
and masculinity, and to identify origin communities for consideration as pilots for the Convive Program.
The PRA was carried out with groups of youngsters in mixed groups, but also in same sex groups. When
they were asked about the advantages and disadvantages of belonging to a specific gender, girls expressed
the desire for more freedom and fewer domestic chores while boys wanted to feel less lonely and able to
express their feelings and have the right to cry more. Another finding is that as the families migrate to the
North, they encounter different traditions and customs and this is reflected in changing gender roles and
interactions. However, women and girls still carry out much of the domestic work. It is not unusual for a
12 year old girl to start her day at 4 o'clock in the morning preparing tortillas for her father and brothers,
washing their clothes and then working a long day in the fields harvesting tomatoes or peppers. Girls
play less and attend school less regularly than boys. Some young boys recognize that their sisters and
mothers work harder and longer hours than they do and are willing to participate more in domestic chores.
Nonetheless, their mothers usually discourage them from participating in domestic tasks since they fear
the boy's masculinity could be jeopardized and they would be subject to social rejection. These and other
findings are part of a participation process that has been used during preparation and will be used during
implementation.
Consultation. The proposed project was prepared through a participatory approach based on consultation
with relevant stakeholders. Two consultative workshops were carried out to design the project involving
public sector officials, NGOs, civil society organizations, UNDP, members from the academia and
international gender specialists. The project components were designed to follow a participatory pattern,
providing incentives to promote community organization, the active participation of women and youth,
and gender equity in productive projects, local communities and in SEDESOL programs. This approach
will ensure ownership and sustainability through the promotion of good-practices.
ProGenero complements the work already initiated by the Task Force on Gender within the Consultative
Group on Social Development of SEDESOL. The Task Force is comprised of thirty male and female
representatives with various backgrounds and from different states ranging from academics to
government to NGOs and over the last year they have provided conclusions and proposals to improve and
strengthen the incorporation of a gender focus in SEDESOL's programs. The Task Force on Gender will
also play an important role in facilitating civil society participation in the monitoring and evaluation
process and disseminating the lessons learned.
This project builds on previous participatory efforts that support gender equity in Mexico, including a
number of workshops and seminars over the past three years, such as the Workshop on Gender and Public
Policy Analysis and the National Seminar to Promote Women Employment. It also benefits from the
efforts of CONMUJER to establish a gender strategy through broad consensus with civil society. An
example of this effort was the Gender and Public Policy Workshop held on April 29, 1997, which was
organized by the CONMUJER and the Secretaria de Hacienday Credito Puiblico, (Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit - SHCP) in collaboration with the World Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB). Around 50 representatives from the public sector and civil society organizations participated
to analyze and make proposals about labor markets, productive systems promotion, poverty, education,
health and housing. On May 1998, the Labor Ministry and CONMUJER carried out a seminar to analyze
conditions of women's employment involving, public sector officials, worker unions, private sector and
civil society organizations. During the seminar, issues such as labor policy and gender, micro-credit, and
rural enterprises were discussed in order to agree on an alliance to promote women's employment.
CONMUJER has also contributed to a participatory approach on gender through the National Woman
Program.



Page 27
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProG6nero
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the project will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January
1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
Most procurement activities will be carried out by the Direcci6n de Genero y Desarrollo (Gender
and Development Division - DGD) within the Direccion General de Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento
(Monitoring and Evaluation General Directorate - DGES) in SEDESOL. The DGD contracted a
specialist in financial administration to coordinate all procurement actions. Procurement of items
financed through the Convive program, as well as of technical assistance and training provided to
women's groups with respect to micro-enterprise projects, will be carried out by local beneficiaries (from
a roster of eligible providers with respect to said technical assistance and training).
An overall assessment of SEDESOL and a specific assessment of the capacity of DGD was
carried out by the Mexico Resident Mission in 1999. The evaluation found that SEDESOL has capacity
with respect to systems of control and the maintenance of procurement documents. The main risk
identified in the assessment of DGD was related to the capability of a person to be hired to handle
financial administration and procurement in DGD. As a Condition of Negotiation, the financial
administration person for DGD was hired, with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and participated in
negotiations. In addition, it was agreed that this person will attend a forthcoming procurement training
session to be held in the Bank office in Mexico.
The Bank reviewed the draft Operations Manual during the appraisal mission and will reach
agreement on the final version prior to effectiveness.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods described below and their estimated amounts, are summarized in Table A. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B. It was agreed that the contract
for the publicity campaign will include modeling and testing of the campaign and separate bidding will be
carried out to purchase the production materials.
Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured under the project ($0.20 million) include computers, printers, videos,
publications, and reproduction of promotional materials. Grouping of these purchases would not be
feasible, consequently, no foreign suppliers would be interested and ICB procedures will not be used in
the project. For contracts above $50,000 procurement should be carried out under NCB procedures.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$200,000 equivalent may be procured using national shopping procedures.



Page 28
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Bank's prior review will be required for the first two NCB contracts.
Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services ($2.62 million) include technical assistance and provision of training. These
services are expected to be carried out by individual consultants and NGOs with only a few by consultant
firms. The technical assistance required is mainly directed to assist communities with organization,
institutional development, and preparation of community initiatives. Training and promotion activities
would include the rental of facilities, materials, meals and transportation expenses for participants. For
the Support to Productive Projects activity, women's groups will co-finance training activities (minimum
of 20 percent).
Firms
Consultant services carried out by a firm or NGO will be hired using QCBS procedures, including
autonomous institutes working according to commercial law.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Grants for Convive Program
The project includes an estimated amount of $0.69 million equivalent to be managed by DGD to
provide grant funding for initiatives proposed by the communities on a competitive basis. The amount of
individual initiatives will not exceed $10,000. The Operations Manual describes the selection procedure
and criteria for the grants. Such a manual will stipulate, in addition to eligibility, selection criteria and
conditions applicable to the initiatives, the requirement that procurement would be done under community
participation principles through comparison of at least three price quotations to the extent possible. Direct
procurement and sole-source contracting is expected due to the remoteness of some of the communities
involved. The DGD will ensure that the agreed procedures are being followed. Some of the activities
under this initiative are expected to be community-executed. The community will co-finance the
initiatives (minimum of 10 percent).
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B. The prior review threshold for
individuals consultants will be $50,000, and for consultants firms, including NGOs, $100,000. The
proposed thresholds for prior review are the standard thresholds used in Mexico. In addition to the prior
review of individual procurement actions, an Annual Operating Plan and budget will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank.
Procurement Plan
SEDESOL has developed an indicative plan for the 2-year period of project implementation,
which provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). A
Procurement Plan for the two years has been prepared (Table A2) and is included in the Operations
Manual. Annual procurement plans will be submitted as part of the Annual Operating Plan.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review, it is recommended that one full supervision mission visit the field
to carry out post review of procurement actions six months after Project initiation and yearly thereafter.
Such post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 20 percent of contracts signed.



Page 29
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                 (including
NCB       Other a/       N.B.F      Contingencies)
1. Goods                                   b/             0.20                           0.20
--           (0.17)          --             (0.17)
2. Consultant Services and                                2.62                           2.62
Training
--           (2.23)          --             (2.23)
3. Grants for Convive Program                             0.69                           0.69
(0.63)                        (0.63)
4. Operating Costs                                                     0.33c             0.33
5. Front-end Fee                                          0.03                           0.03
(0.03)                        (0.03)
Total                                                   3.54         0.33             3.87
(3.07) d/                     (3.07) d/
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
a/ Includes goods to be procured through national shopping ($0.20), consulting services, training and
technical assistance ($2.62), and grants for the Convive Program ($.69).
b/ Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 per contract should be carried out under NCB.
Procedures. During preparation, no contracts above $50,000 were planned and therefore not costed.
c/ Includes operating costs related to managing the project.
d/ Total amount does not add due to rounding.
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Consultant Services               Selection Method                Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                (including
____________                  contingencies)
QCBS                   Other'
A. Individuals                                        X                       0.41
________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(0 .3 1)
B. Firms (including NGOs)       X                     X                       2.14
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  (1 .8 7 )
Total                                                    2.55
(2.18)
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SS = Single-source Selection
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
'Single-source Selection for consultants/firms financed through the Convive Program. The funds will finance
demand-driven sub-projects, therefor the amount to be financed through this method can not be predetermined.



Page 30
Table A2: Procurement Plan
(in US$ million)
Item           # of Contracts:   Amount  1   20000          2001        2002
Studies                    3              0.21         X            X            X
Equipment                   1             0.04         X
Promotional Material       -5             0.06         x            X            X
Individual Consultants    -12             0.40         X            X            X
Consultant Firms          -25             2.14         X            x            x
Grants                    -67             0.69
Recurrent Costs           N/A             0.30
TOTAL                                3.84
Front-end Fee                         0.03
TOTAL        I_3.87
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(in US$ thousands)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)             Method'             Prior'Review
1. Goods
>50,000               NCB                First 2 contracts
<50,000           Local Shopping             None
2. Services
(a) Individual             >50,000                                        All
<50,000                                     TOR-CV
(b) Firms                 >I00,000               QCBS                     All
<100,000              QCBS                TOR/short list
3. Grants                 <10,000              Community                None
Participation
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:,
High
Average
Low
Disbursement and financial Management
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be made against the categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The
proceeds of the proposed LIL are expected to be disbursed over a period of two and one-half years. The
Bank will not finance any recurrent costs. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002 and
the Loan Closing Date would be December 31, 2002.
Financial Management/Disbursement Procedures
A Bank-certified Financial Management Specialist carried out an assessment of the DGD during
project preparation. DGD will coordinate project implementation, and will receive support from other
SEDESOL departments. SEDESOL has more than nine years of experience managing World Bank
projects (DRD I and II). NAFIN will operate as the financial agent.



Page 31
Based on the financial management assessment, DGD is not eligible for Project Management
Report-based disbursements. The disbursement arrangements will be the traditional disbursement
procedures. Migration to PMR-based type of disbursements will be reviewed by the Bank and Borrower
in the second year of implementation, however, by January 31, 2000 the DGD would complete an action
plan to prepare agreed semester PMRs. DGD will provide information to NAFIN, which will submit to
the Bank all applications for withdrawals regarding expenditures to be financed with loan proceeds.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior review by the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raised above the prior
review limits as a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements will be made against
SOEs: (a) goods costing less than $50,000; (b) contracts for consulting firms, including NGOs costing
less than $100,000; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; (d) all training
expenditures; and (e) all Convive Program grant expenditures
Special Account
Payments from the Loan proceeds would be administered by the financial agent from a Special
Account, maintained in US Dollars in Banco de Mexico. The authorized allocation would be $307,000.
Replenishment applications would be submitted monthly and supported by required documentation,
including reconciled bank statements. The Special Account would be audited in conjunction with the
annual financial audit of the project.
Retroactive Financing.
Retroactive financing of up to US$307,000 (10 percent of the Loan amount) for eligible
expenditures incurred since February 4, 2000 (but not earlier than 12 months before Loan signing) will be
allowed.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
The project will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices
acceptable to the Bank, as required by the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH). DGD will have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year audited, with a
separate opinion with respect to the Statements of Expenditures. and the Special Account, by independent
and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the following Bank documents (a)
Guidelines and Terms of Reference for audits ofprojects with financing by the World Bank in the Latin
America and Caribbean Region and (b) FARAH. Certified copies of the audit reports will be submitted
to the Bank no more than six months after completion of each fiscal year. SECODAM will audit all
project operations (on an annual basis), as described in the Operations Manual and as established in the
Memordndum de Entendimiento Tecnico (Technical Memorandum of Understanding - MET).
Project expenditures will be recorded in such a way that all related sources of funds and types of
expenditures are clearly identified. DGD will (a) establish a consistent financial, accounting and
reporting system for the project and (b) maintain all required information and supporting documentation
corresponding to project implementation. The requirements for accounting, financial reporting, and
auditing are described in detail in the Operations Manual.



Page 32
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US$ thousands)
Expenditure Category        Amountin USS'000        Financing Percentage (%)
Goods                                  160,000                   85%
Consultant Services and Training     1,900,000                   100%
Technical Assistance and Training     260,000               100% of SEDESOL's
to Women's Groups                                              contribution
Grants for Convive Program             619,300              95% of SEDESOL's
contribution
Front-end Fee                          30,700                   100 %
Unallocated                            100,000
Total                                3,070,000



Page 33
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
Project Schedule                                  Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        3 months             3 months
First Bank mission (identification)              10/18/1999            10/18/1999
Appraisal mission departure                      01/31/2000            01/31/2000
Negotiations                                     04/03/2000            05/15/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/21/2000            06/30/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL)
Preparation assistance: PHRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Maria-Valeria Pena, Task Manager             Senior Social Scientist, LCSEO
Anna Sant'Anna                               Senior Social Sector Specialist, LCSHD
Maria Elena Castro                           Social Scientist, LCSEO
Ferenc Molnar                                Senior Counsel, LEGLA
Teresa Roncal                                Procurement Analyst, LCSES
Lee Anne Adams                               Operations Analyst, LCSEO
Lea Braslavsky                               Country Procurement Specialist, LCOPR
Victor Ordofiez                              Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA
Grissel Prieto                               Office Assistant, LCSEO
Gizella Diaz                                 Language Team Assistant, LCC IF
Eduardo Velez                                Peer Reviewer, Country Sector Leader, LCC IF
Steve Schonberger                            Peer Reviewer, Senior Operations Officer,
_LCSER



Page 34
Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
Mexico: Gender Equity Project: ProGenero
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment
C. Other
Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer. Informe de Avances de Ejecuci6n. 8 de marzo, 1999.
Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer. Memoria del Taller de Analisis de Genero y Politcas Puiblicas.
29 y 30 de abril, 1997.
Gender and the Mexican Economy, Studies on Gender in Education, Labor Markets,
Microenterprise, and Land. LCSPR.
Reporte del Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Institucional en Geinero. 15 de noviembre, 1999.
Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsi6n Social. Memoria del Seminario Nacional Tripartitopara el
analisis del Plan de Acci6n - Mas y mejores empleos para las mujeres en Mexico.
Octubre 1998.
SEDESOL. Informe Nacional sobre el Grado de Avance de la Plataforma de Acci6n: Pekin+5.
M6dulo 1: La Mujery la Pobreza, 1999.
*Including electronic files.



Page 35
Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Milions          disbursementsa
Project ID   FY   Borrower         Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Org         Frm
Rev'd
P048505      1999  Mexiho          AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                            444.45      0.00       0.00     330.01     20.96      0.00
P007726      1997  Mexico          AQUACULTURE                                      40.00      0.00       0.00      38.91     10.79      0.00
P067491      2000  Mexico          Bank Restructuring Facilty                      505.06      0.00       0.00     300.00      -5.06     0.00
P007700      1997  Mexico          COMMUNITY FORESTRY                               15.00      0.00       0.00       9.14      2.47      0.00
P034161      1995  Mexico          FINANCIAL SEC T.A                                37,40      0.00       0.00       8.75      -5.05     8.75
P007610      1999  Mexico          FOVI RESTRUCTURING                              605.05      0.00       0.00     462.00    192.00      0.00
P007723      1993  Mexico          HWY RHB & SAFETY                                480.00      0.00       0.00      36.03     -11.97     0.00
P007667      1992  Mexico          IRRIG SCTR                                      400.00      0.00       0.00      21.86     71.86     16.86
P044531      1998  Mexico          KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                              300.00      0,00       000      259.15      3.15      0.00
P007648      1993  Mexico          MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                            200.00      0.00      23.00     109.79    124.69     73.79
P066867      2000  Mexico          MX DECENTRALIZATION SAL                         606.07      0.00       0.00     300.00      0.00      0.00
P007720       1998  Mexico         MX HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM -SAL                    700.00      0.00       0.00     350.00    350.00      0.00
P040199      1998  Mexico          MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENTPHASEI                115.00      0.00       0.00      89.93     25.06      0.00
P007689      1996  Mexico          MX: BASIC HEALTH II                             310.00      0.00       0.00     122.90     66.41     37.70
P055061       1998  Mexico         MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                      25.00      0.00       0.00      21.79      5.19      0.00
P049895      1998  Mexico          MX: HIGHER ED FINANCING                         180.20      000        0.00     169.63     23.57      0.00
P007725      1994  Mexico          MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II                             412.00      000        0.00     110.35    150.35    110.35
P034490      1995  Mexioo          MX: TECHNICAL EDUCfTRNING                       265.00      0.00       0.00     138.16    168.16      7.32
P007710      1994  Mexico          N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                            368.00      0.00     300.99      37.21    313.80     42.10
P007701      1994  Mexico          ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                            200.00      0.00       0.00      53.71     83.71     23.71
Poo7711      1998  Mexico          RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                             47.00      0.00       0.00      37.31     11.82      0.00
P057530      2000  Mexico          RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                              55.00      0 00       0.00      55.00      0.00      0.00
P007702      1995  Mexico          SECOND DECENTRALZTN                             500.00      0.00       0.00      72.26     72.26     72.26
P007612      1994  Mexico          SOLID WASTE II                                  200.00      0.00     193.06       1.48      -4.46     1 47
P007713      1996  Mexico          WATER RESOURCES MANA                            186.80      0.00       0.00     146.76     56.76     11.97
P007707      1994  Mexico          WATER/SANIT II                                  350.00      0.00      84.30      8212     166.42      0.00
Total:     7446.73       0.00     601.35    3364.25    1892.89    406.28



Page 36
MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval      Company               Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco              14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60   14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60
1998             Ayvi                 10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96       BANAMEX              96.21    0.00    0.00   56.48   96.21    0.00    0.00   56.48
1997             Banco Bilbao MXC     75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00   75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00
1992             Banorte-SABROZA       3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96          Baring Mex. FMC       0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1995/99          Baring Venture        0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998             CIMA Mexico           0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998             CIMA Puebla           7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994             CTAPV                 4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00    4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00
1997             Comercializadora      3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88    3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88
1990/91          Condumex              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999             Corsa                13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993             Derivados             3.30    0.00    0.00    3.01    3.30    0.00    0.00    3.01
1997             Fondo Chiapas         0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1998             ForjaMonterrey       13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1991/96          GIBSA                21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76
1993             GIDESA                7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50    7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50
1996/00          GIRSA                45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   22.71    0.00    0.00   30.29
1993             GOTM                  0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44
1997/98          Gen. Hipotecaria      0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998             Grupo Calidra        12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA           0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989             Grupo Minsa          20.00   10.00    0.00   30.00   20.00   10.00    0.00   30.00
1997             GrupoPosadas         25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Probursa      0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97/98    Grupo Sanfandila     10.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    6.67    0.00    0.00    3.33
1998             Heller Financial      0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00    Interceramnic         9.00    0.00    6.00    5.25    9.00    0.00    6.00    5.25
1994             InverCap              0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             Masterpak              3.60    0.00    0.00    3.24    3.60    0.00    0.00    3.24
1993             Merida III           30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   26.15    0.00    0.00   64.45
1998             Metalsa               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/87/94/96    Mexplus Puertos       0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99          NEMAK                 0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00       Petrocel               1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70    1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70
1990             Punta Langosta        4.00    1.00    0.00    7.00    2.76    1.00    0.00    4.84
1998             Sigma                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/94/95       Sudamerica            0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999             TMA                   2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997             Toluca Toll Road      7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992             Vitro                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92          Vitro Flotado         6.61    0.00    0.00    2.76    6.61    0.00    0.00    2.76
1991             ZN Mxc Eqty Fund      0.00   25.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.93    0.00    0.00
1998
Total Portfolio:    449.35   98.54   64.40  436.17  402.14   66.54   64.40  393.13



Page 37
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi      Partic
1997                   Altamira                       17800.00   1000.00      0.00   38000.00
1999                   BANAMEX LRF 11                 50000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999                   Baring BMPEF FMC                   0.00      0.00     60.00       0.00
1998                   CimaHermosillo                  7000.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
2000                   Educacion                       9700.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
2000                   Rio Bravo                      50000.00      0.00      0.00   65000.00
2000                   Saltillo S.A.                  35000.00      0.00      0.00   45000.00
2000                   Teksid Aluminio                25000.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
2000                   Teksid Hierro                  15000.00      0.00      0.00   30000.00
Total Pending Commitment:    209500.00   1000.00     60.00  178000.00



Page 38
Annex 9: Country at a Glance
Lati    Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Ameoc   mRIddl-
Meio & Cib     Inme        Development dlamond'
Population, mhid-year (Millions)                     95.9       602       580                  Life expectancy
QNIP per capita (Atlas rneth,od, US1$)              1,970      3,040     4,8
GNP (Atlas mnethod, US$ billbion30.                             ,78      28
Avorage, annuallgrowth, 1992-98
Popuiation.(%                                         1.8        1,        1,
Labor force (9)                                       Z.8        2.3       2.0,    GNP          /                    ross
avaltable, 199248)                     ~~~~~~~~~per                    primary
Mtost recent esmtiate (latyetyara  104 194)capita                                                    7enrollment
Poverty (% of popuati ton beoAw na tional poverty line);
Urban populaton (% of total population),               74        75        7?
Life epectanc a birh(es.                               72,       7         70
Infant mortaliy (pe1r ,OOOfrebillS)                    31         32       27
;Chid malnutrition (N Of chlkWn tinde5)                14          8        i~Access to safe water
Acce ss to safe wateir (% of poplion)                  9$         5        7
lltterac(%otopultloage 1,54-)                     1          6
Gross rilmary enrolment (Nof sctt-g population        116       1131      108              Mxc
Male                          116        ..        ..         ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Upper-middle-income group
Femalie                                             t13         .
KEY JECNONMIIC RkATIOS and LONG-TERMW TRENIDS
077    1087       1907      M09
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                          87.4   1140.2      401 7     4103
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               21.8    719.2       28.0      24.4Tad
Ex.ports of goods anid' serVicesiGDP         8.8    i9.S        W03       31.2Trd
Gross domestic savingslGOP                  20.86    25.3       280  ~22.4
Qross natinal savingslG0P                    18.2    211~    24.          20.65
Curent accounitbaIance/GOP                   -2.2      3.0In1estm3.t
interest payme                                                                      avntgGP18 5  21 ~ o Dmstc
Total*debWDGP                                35.7     76.1     '37.31       .       aig              1"         Ivsmn
Toftaldebt serviceiepoits                    57.4    40.1       32.4      18 
Present vslue of debIlGOP                      .                38.0      382
Preset Value of                                               J tlxors.. .  103  106.0
Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 22        29        .8       4.8       4.8               Mexico
G NP prcapita                       0.6.5             80         2.9       2.91         -     pe-iddle-incomegrp
Exportsof goods andf services       9.4      12.3;    10.6       9.7       8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMIY
1977    1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment(%
(% of GDP)40
Agriculture                                  10.2      8.8       5.7       5.      2
Industry                                    30.7    35.9        28.5      29.1     2
Manufacturing                              22.4    25.7       21.4      21. ~:
Services                                     59.1     53.5      85.8      65.6    .20       349                  7 9
Private consumption                         89.8     85.9       84.1      68.2    -40
General govemnment consumption                9.8      8.8       9.9       9.                     GDI        SGOP
imports of goods and services                 9.8     13.4      30.4      33.2
(average annual growth)       ~~~1077-87  1088-98    1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                   2.2      1.8       0.2       0.5    40
Industry                                      2.7      3.5       9.3       8.6
Manufacturing                               2.3      3.9      10.0       74      20
Services                                      2.6. .4                      4.
Private consumption                           2.2      2.5       8.4       8.4            03 94           096    7
General government consumption                5.2      1.8       2.9      -1.3
Gross domesti investmnent                   .4.8       4.1      25.0       8.4    20
imports of goods and services                .1.3     12.1      22.8      14.2                  Exports    -0-Imports
Gross national product                        2.8      2.4       7.9       4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the eountry (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 39
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prnces
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                                 ..   131.8       20.6      15.9    30
Implicit GDP deflator                         25.6   137.3       17.7      13.8    20
Government finance                                                                 10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0         -
Current revenue                                 .,    29.5       23.0     20.6             93   94   99   95   97   98
Current budget balance                                -10.3       31        2.3                    GDPdeflator 3-'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -15.0      -0.7      -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  22,093   110,431   117,500      50,000
Oil                                           ..   8,630    11,323      7,147
Agriculture                                         1,543     3,828     3,954     00,000
Manufactures                                   ..11,344    94,802   105,933
Total imports (io                               .   13,305   109,808   125,242
Consumer goods                                 ..    768      9,326    11,108  so.000
Intermediate goods                            ..   9,907    85,366    98,805
Capital goods                                  ..   2,631    15,116    17,329                 9   94  90   0   971 ,1
Export price index (1995=100)                           93        101       99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      80       101       103                U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .      115        100       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                7.792   27,509   121,701   129,427     0
Imports of goods and services                7,665   18,387   121,608   137,729
Resource balance                              127    9,121         94   -8,302    -2
Net income                                  -2,151   -6,801   -12,790   -13,497
Net current transfers                          88    1,919      5,247    6,012  
Current account balance                     -1,936    4,239    -7,448   -15,786
Financing items (net)                        2,558    1,861    17,942    17,923
Changes in net reserves                      -622   -6,100   -10,494    -2,137     | 8|
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..  12,590    28,815    29,032
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)           2.26E-2      1.4       8.8       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        31,179  109,459   149,690   159,962
IBRD                                       1,374    7,347    11,356    11,514           G             A: 11,514          |
IDA                                           o        0         0         0            0.28,5_  C8030
Total debt service                           4,715   12,083    42,453    26,294                                     D: 12,863
IBRD                                        152    1,072      2,102    2,027
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    E: 5,475
Official grants                               9       75        29         .
Official creditors                          299      888    -4,563       129
Private creditors                         4,407    2,891      6,003    3,943
Foreign direct investment                   556    3,246    12,478    10,238
Portfolio equity                              0        0      3,215     -666
World Bank program                                                                               F: 93,573
Commitments                                 162    1,695       530     2,212        A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               202      983       995      1,986     8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F Private
Principal repayments                         50      567      1,311    1,257      C- IMF                       G- Short-term
Net flows                                   152      416       -316      729
Interest payments                           102      505       791       769
Net transfers                                50      -89    -1,107       -41
Development Economics                                                                                                 913/99






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23547
4unod         <        , <                                              X                                                                                              M    E X  I C 
i.i - %  IIAA  rr.hrc~             Nogairs       t2 - -.--.J          Judre:r
BAJA  4A~PI
IIFORNIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30'
.. . ,J:.,                                                                                                                                            2> Nat-N  cl capital
C State capitols
Gvaytt'os  C,dvdOb,,~~~~~~~~~6o  COANIIIIA   1  ceytoC                                                              0    Priecipol cities or tOWnS'i.ipalcitis .,t-o
BAJA   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   AHvIA-    Divided highways
C:   RNIA                                                                                                                                                                       Seletd wis roads
It?d>HedAiSi'n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-.---.----.- Railroad
4    Principal airports
l0I   bm   ''iC<vESC;> 0000S,0f, :00 dz/tS J                                                        N   1  
9. s..,   State boondar..s
''',:,'.''.    :,"'.                                                                                                                    w rmti   l b-droi d
>- 5 @ . . . : . S . + ~~~~~~~~~J                                   H         OrNDURS
i'  i  'o                                 ro ro c  /' " ' i' 'Q ' ' i     ''   '       ; '     ' '     '' "    A   C A   C iA S   ,
u/          of    A/oxc 
-.                                                       F ~~~~~~~~~,1j ~~~~~~~~~~J4A~~~~NAJ O.M7f
E A:A1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    /wco
Say   of   Cocrpochc  4          100CArANA
GNd.I.j ~ ~ ~ ~ GIERRO~hipocn1
04 LA CA   >    r   /    4 So~~~~~~~~~~~CA a otere
CROM~~~1P9S  ICR   390    45~~~~~~   599                                                                    ,f*~ml  t EK CO 
Icarto bcovNdo X                           GU~~~~~~AMPECALA
07 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
tso'                                                   IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O"
FEBRUARY 1992



