Page  1
COFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7022-ME
Loan Agreement
(Gender Equity Project -- Generosidad)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated October 25, 2001                      
LOAN NUMBER 7022-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, 
S.N.C. (the Borrower).
Page  2
WHEREAS  (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower 
in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the modification set forth 
below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“
Convive 
Subprojects” means any of the subprojects referred to in Part B.3 of 
the Project;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“FONAES” means the Guarantor’s social enterprise promotion program entitled 
Fondo Nacional de Apoyo para las Empresas Sociales 
(National Fund in Support of Social 
Enterprises) currently administered by SE (as hereinafter defined) but potentially administered in 
Page  3
the future by another entity of the Guarantor;
(e)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower and INMUJERES (as hereinafter defined) to the Bank, containing indicators to be used 
in monitoring and evaluating implementation of the Project;
(f)
“INMUJERES” means the Guarantor’s 
Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres 
(Nacional Women’s Institute);
(g)
“Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(h)
“PCU” means the collection unit referred to in Section 3.09 of  the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(j)
“SE” means the Guarantor’s 
Secretaría de Economía
 (Economy Ministry); and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to INMUJERES.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three million seventy thousand Dollars 
($3,070,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect 
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
Page  4
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 
15, 2010.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  5
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, contractual 
arrangements with the Guarantor and INMUJERES satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia
,
for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use by INMUJERES; (b) 
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to 
pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan; and (c) 
compliance by INMUJERES with all the obligations that the Guarantor, pursuant to the terms of 
the Guarantee Agreement, is obligated to cause INMUJERES to comply with for purposes of the 
project (as well as compliance by INMUJERES with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Guarantee Agreement). Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend 
or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The Borrower shall exercise 
its rights and carry out its obligations under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the mid-term review referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Page  6
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently 
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
have been entered into; and
(b)
that the Operations Manual has been issued by INMUJERES and put into
 effect.
(c)
that the understanding referred to in Section 3.08 (d) of the Guarantee
Agreement has been entered into by INMUJERES and SE;
(d)
that the financial management system, referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the 
Guarantee Agreement, has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e)
that the PCU is fully staffed and operational.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, INMUJERES and the 
Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, 
INMUJERES and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date January 25, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The 
Director Internacional
 of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
64145  (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre III, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
011-52-5-325-7097
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective  names in 
Mexico, D.F., Mexico as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Oliver Lafourcade  
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  8
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Federico Patiño 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be
Category
Dollars
)
Financed
(1)
Goods (other than as
70,000
85%
covered by Category
(4) below)
 (2)
Consultants’ services
2,100,000
100% 
and training (other than
as covered by Categories
(3) and (4) below)
(3)
Training and technical
150,000
100% of 
assistance under Part
amounts paid
A.2 (a) and B.1 (a) of
by the Guarantor
 the Project
under Section
3.08 (a) (v) of
the Guarantee
Agreement
(4)
Goods, works and
619,300
95% of 
services required to
amounts paid
carry out 
Convive
by the Guarantor
Subprojects
under Section
3.08 (b) (iv) of
the Guarantee
Agreement
(5)
Fee
30,700
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
Page  9
This Agreement
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate
0
Amount due under
Caps and Interest Rate
Section 2.09 (d) of
Collars
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
100,000
___________
TOTAL
3,070,000
==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $307,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this 
Agreement but after February 4, 2000.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for all expenditures under 
Convive
 Subprojects; for all training 
expenditures; for all goods contracts (other than the first two), costing $50,000 or more 
equivalent, procured under Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement; and 
for expenditures under consultant contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of 
consulting firms) and less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants) all of 
the above under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de 
México
 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
3.05 (d) of this Guarantee Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawals on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Page  10
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.05 (b) (ii) of 
the Guarantee Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said Sections in respect of the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount equivalent to $307,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  12
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test, on a pilot basis, community-based initiatives 
intended to promote gender equity in Mexico and improved access to government-supported 
income generation programs in the context of Mexico's strategy for poverty reduction and social 
sustainability, with the aim of learning to enhance such equity and access as a result of the pilot 
testing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Institutionalization of Gender Approach in Poverty Alleviation Programs
Strengthen and institutionalize INMUJERES’s gender equity enhancement activities 
through:
1.
institutional strengthening initiatives consisting of: (a) the design and implementation 
of awareness-raising seminars and workshops to build the capacity of INMUJERS staff to 
promote gender equity and raise their awareness of gender issues in  the day-to-day operations of 
INMUJERES programs aimed at poverty reduction (including the development of 
gender-oriented didactic materials for dissemination within INMUJERES); (b) the carrying out 
of a program of studies on the living conditions of the Mexican women, particularly those who 
live in poverty, so as to enhance methodologies to incorporate a gender perspective in 
policy-targeted programs; and (c) the implementation and monitoring,  of a gender-focused 
information system within INMUJERES to enable the generation of gender-based statistics and 
indicators (as well as the provision of training to INMUJERES staff on the use of such system); 
and.
2.
institutional strengthening of PCU through: (a) the provision of training to its staff on 
strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation skills and financial management ; (b) the use of 
Page  13
communication, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation and financial administrative 
specialists to assist in the carrying out of  INMUJERES's mission; and (c) the provision of 
computer equipment for INMUJERES use.
Part B
:
Community-based Gender Development
1.
(a) Provision of training and technical assistance to selected women's groups on the 
preparation of productive micro-enterprise projects, on the credit management requirements for 
such projects, on the general managerial capacity required to carry out such projects and on the 
development of such projects with respect to activities not traditionally performed by women; (b) 
provision of training to non-governmental organizations, that work in the preparation of such 
productive micro-enterprise projects but do not have a gender focus, on how to promote and 
develop such projects with a gender focus, on participatory gender-focused monitoring and 
evaluation of such projects, on knowledge transfer to potential beneficiaries of such projects and 
on techniques for gender-focused community organization; and (c) improvement of resources 
regarding productive micro-enterprise project preparation by developing an accessible directory 
and database of organizations with the capacity to provide technical assistance for such 
preparation, by establishing agreements with universities and other higher-education institutions, 
vocational training schools and business chambers to provide such technical assistance and by 
carrying out awareness-raising workshops to strengthen the technical assistance resources of 
FONAES.
2.
Carrying out of a training and exchange program for and among male and female 
leaders of community and peasant organizations, small businesses, health and education projects, 
municipalities and school parents' commissions, located in selected regions (particularly those 
regions with high female employment and high rates of male emigration), to strengthen female 
leadership civic participation and foster male leadership awareness and acknowledgment of 
changing gender roles in Mexican society.
3.
Carrying out of demand-driven community-based cultural, recreational, educational 
and environmental subprojects by civil society groups, with the aim of enhancing community 
life, tolerance and peaceful sociability among men and women.
Part C
:
Gender Awareness
1.
Promotion of Project objectives through a workshop to launch the Project and through 
implementation of a national media campaign and sectoral media campaigns (including a 
campaign promoted by INI, aimed at indigenous peoples and carried out in indigenous 
languages).
2.
Identification, dissemination and promotion of successful gender-equity innovative and 
best practice experiences found in the private sector (with regard to human relations, salary, 
recruitment and benefits practices) and in the municipal public sector (with regard to the 
promotion of gender equity and better living conditions for both men and women), through the 
awarding of non-monetary honors and recognition in extensively promoted ceremonies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
Page  14
