Page  1
        CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7022-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Gender Equity Project –- Generosidad)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 25, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7022-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 2001, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), having 
Page  2
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of three million 
seventy thousand Dollars ($3,070,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the modification set forth in 
the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual 
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and, except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such 
contractual arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, shall cause INMUJERES to: 
(a) carry out the Project; or (b) cause the Project to be carried out, in either case with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, technical, financial 
and administrative standards and practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement by INMUJERES or 
otherwise of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to either carry out, or cause to 
be carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
prepare or cause INMUJERES to prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish or cause INMUJERES to furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and 
the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Bank, or cause the Bank to be afforded by INMUJERES, a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Guarantor on said 
plan.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall cause the Project to be carried out by INMUJERES in 
accordance with the terms of a manual, prepared by INMUJERES and satisfactory to the Bank, 
setting forth specific rules and procedures for implementation of the Project.  Said manual may 
be amended by INMUJERES from time to time with the approval of the Bank.  In case of any 
conflict between the terms of said manual and those of this Agreement and of the Loan 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect INMUJERES’s operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
Page  4
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
or payment out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.05 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall cause 
INMUJERES to carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section in order to enable INMUJERES, not 
later than January 1, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare semestral Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(A) (I) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (II) 
Page  5
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(B) (I) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (II) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(C) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(ii)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (d) (i) of 
this Section, the Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester a 
Project Management Report for such period.
(iii)
By no later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, the Bank and the Guarantor shall conduct a joint evaluation of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for purposes of jointly determining whether or not Project Management 
Reports may be prepared by INMUJERES on a quarterly or other basis 
which is more frequent than the semestral basis referred to in 
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.  If the joint determination reached is 
that preparation on such a more frequent basis is possible, Project 
Management Reports shall thereafter be prepared on said more frequent 
basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and each 
such Project Management Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each less-than-semestral period covered 
said Project Management Report.
(e)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may be 
required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower’s obligations under Section 4.01 of the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without limitation 
upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor shall cause 
INMUJERES to:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable monitoring 
and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each twelve-month period 
(beginning for the twelve-month period commencing on the Effective Date): (i) progress reports 
Page  6
on Project implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall be based on 
the indicators referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (ii) an annual action plan, amendable from 
time to time and in any case satisfactory to the Bank, which plan shall be complied with in 
implementing the Project during the twelve months immediately subsequent to said plan’s 
preparation.
Section 3.07. (a) The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to participate with the Bank in 
a
mid-term review of Project implementation, to be held no later than fourteen months after the 
Effective Date and to be based on:  (i) the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a mid-term evaluation report prepared and published by INMUJERES, 
incorporating self-assessments prepared by Project beneficiaries with regard to Project 
implementation (which self-assessments shall be systematically solicited by INMUJERES).
(b)
The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to, by no later than twenty-four months 
after the Effective Date:  (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank a Project impact evaluation report 
based on a comparison between the results of a baseline study and the results of the beneficiary 
self-assessments referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, which impact evaluation 
report shall also describe the main lessons learned from such evaluation; and (ii) publish said 
impact evaluation report.
Section 3.08. (a) With respect to Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
INMUJERES to:  (i) solicit training and technical assistance proposals from interested women’s 
groups; (ii) approve only those proposals which meet eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operations Manual; (iii) select, according to the consultant selection procedures set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, entities or individuals to form part of a roster of 
training or technical assistance providers available to support execution of said Part B.1 (a) of the 
Project; (iv) require the women’s groups, that submitted approved proposals, to hire their training 
or technical assistance providers from those listed in such roster; and (v) ensure that the amount 
such hired providers are paid for the cost of services they render to such groups is prenegotiated 
with INMUJERES as part of the selection procedures referred to in subparagraph (iii) of this 
paragraph and consists of at least twenty percent paid by such groups, in cash or in kind, out of 
their own resources and at most eighty percent financed by INMUJERES (as set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between INMUJERES and the relevant group prior to the provision 
of such financing by INMUJERES).
(b)
With respect to Part B.3 of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES 
to:  (i) solicit 
Convive
 Subproject proposals from interested groups referred to in such Part B.3; 
(ii) approve only those proposals which meet eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations 
Manual and are not covered by the provisions of Section 3.08 (c) of this Agreement; (iii) require 
the groups, that submitted approved proposals, to undertake their 
Convive
 Subproject 
procurement and consultant selection according to the procedures set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iv) ensure that the amount paid to the providers of the goods, 
works or consultant services procured to carry out each 
Convive
 Subproject consists of at least 
ten percent paid by such groups, in cash or in kind, out of their own resources and at most ninety 
percent financed by INMUJERES (as set forth in an agreement to be entered into between 
INMUJERES and the relevant group prior to the provision of such financing by INMUJERES); 
and (v) ensure that such goods, works or consultant services are used by such groups to carry out 
their respective 
Convive
 Subprojects. 
(c)
The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to ensure that no 
Convive
 Subproject 
Page  7
cost more than $10,000 equivalent and involve:  (i) financing of mere consumption or mere 
transfer of ownership; (ii) financing of debts and liabilities; (iii) purchase or rental of land; (iv) 
welfare or other social assistance; and (v) financing of operating expenses that would have been 
incurred even in the absence of the 
Convive
 Subproject.
(d)
With respect to Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
INMUJERES to enter into a written understanding, satisfactory to the Bank, wherein the rules for 
collaboration between INMUJERES and SE regarding the role of FONAES in said Part are set 
forth.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not permit any amendment 
or failure to enforce any provision of such understanding.  The Guarantor shall cause 
INMUJERES and SE to exercise their rights and carry out their obligations under such 
understanding in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Guarantor shall cause INMUJERES to, throughout the course of 
Project implementation, maintain a Project coordination unit to coordinate Project 
implementation, such unit to be managed by a general coordinator and to consist of specialists in, 
inter alia
,
communication, community-based gender development activities, monitoring and 
evaluation, financial administration, procurement and gender certification programs, in numbers 
and all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The 
Director General de Crédito Público
 of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Palacio Nacional
Patio Central, piso 3
Oficina 3010
Colonia Centro
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
Facsimile:
1777313-SHOCME
011-52-5-228-1685
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico, 
D.F., Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Francisco Gil Diaz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B.3 of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include:
1.
direct contracting;
Page  9
2.
procurement of goods under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
3.
procurement of works under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
Part C
: National Competitive Bidding
Goods other than under Part B.3 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: National Shopping
Goods other than under Part B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part E
:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to each of the first two contracts procured under Part C of this Section I.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part E, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
Page  10
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C and D of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 
through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Individual Consultants
Services provided by individual consultants shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Single-source Selection
Services required to carry out a 
Convive
 Subproject may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part E
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of 
this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where pertinent) and terms of 
reference shall be required.
Page  11
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this Part, and 
without limitation of the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
