Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1875-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 18, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at November 1, 1975)
Tanzania Sh   -   US$0.12
US$1.00           T Sh 8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS     -   Agricultural Development Service
TWICO   -   Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation
NDC     -   National Development Corporation
TPA     -   Tons Per Annum
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRFSTDnFNT OF TWE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$7.0
million to help finance the Sao Hill Forestry Project. The proposed loan
will be for twenty five years including five years of grace at an interest
rate of 8.85 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        Although it has been sometime since the last full economic and
updating reports on Tanzania were finalized in May and December 1972,
respectively, considerable staff economic work has been accomplished on-the
country since that time. An agricultural sector report was-issued in
December 1974. The report of an industry and mining-mission was distributed
in April 1975 and a study of the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decen-
tralization was completed in April 1975. In March 1976, at the request of
the Government, the Bank mounted a special mission which analyzed the fiscal
implications of the Government's programs for Universal Primary Education
and Universal Rural Water Supply. The work of this mission will provide a
substantial input to the work of the basic economic mission which is scheduled
to visit Tanzania in mid-1976. Throughout the last two years or so Bank
staff have engaged in a continuous economic dialogue with the Government on
the serious balance of payments difficulties which have been encountered by
the country and the Government's policies and programs designed to close the
external gap. These policies and programs were reviewed in the Program Loan
President's Report No. P-1517a-TA, dated November 25, 1974 and in a memorandum
(M75-687) from the Secretary dated September 25, 1975. The Consultative
Group for East Africa met in April 1975 to disveass-the progress and-prospects
of the Tanzania economy and the need for additional resources to support the
Government 's development program.
3.     -  The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the guiding force in Tanzania's'political evolution since the 1950's.
Over the years following independence the political leadership has developed
a philosophy of egalitarian socialism which has been articulated in many
documents, most central of which is the Arusha Declaration of 1967. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the country the
leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching institutional
reforms. For the past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has been
guided by three fundamental objectives: (a) the achievement of a participatory,
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication of absolute
poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and (c) more rapid
long-term economic growth with full participation of all regions and pop-
ulation groups in the development process. Reflecting this philosophy some
of the Government's most significant decisions have been in the area of
incomes policy. The tax structure is highly progressive and middle and
upper incomes have been restrained while lower income wages have been
increased. In the provision of social infrastructure services, poorer
areas have been favored. As a result of these and related policies, dif-
ferentials in living standards between upper and lower urban dwellers have
been narrowed and some impact has been made on urban/rural differentials
and regional disparities of income.
4.        The overriding goal is to develop a socialist economic system and
the consequence has been a series of industry nationalization measures and
proliferation of government parastatal enterprises. The state has increasingly
intervened in the price mechanism; prices of domestic factors and products
and imports are   controlled  directly  or   by such indirect methods as
import licensing. These structural changes have resulted in some imple-
mentation problems. In addition, scarce managerial manpower has been spread
very thinly, exacerbating already serious shortages of top and middle-level
staff. Some of these conflicts should be seen, however, as the inevitable
consequences of a "frontal" attack on poverty and underdevelopment.
5.        With a per capita   income of only $130, Tanzania is classified as
one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the United Nations
(country data are provided in Annex I). Between 1968 and 1973 Tanzania's
GDP   grew  at  4.6 percent per annum.   Domestic savings averaged   17 per-
cent of GDP, while gross investment averaged 21 percent -- extremely high
rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The
growth rate of GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment
effort, however, in part because of the high proportion of investment which
was directed into infrastructure and social services projects such as the
transportation links with Zambia, because of sluggish growth in the agricul-
tural sector, and because of stagnant or declining productivity in paras-
tatal enterprises. During this period the balance of payments position of
Tanzania was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointingly slow growth
of exports (overall export volume grew at only three percent per year from
1968 to 1972 and in 1973 export volume fell back to the 1968 level). Never-
theless, because of a sharp increase in capital inflows, the overall balance
of payments was in surplus from 1971 to 1973, and there was a modest build-up
in foreign exchange reserves.   As a result of prudent financial management,
net reserves were increased to approximately $145 million by the end of 1973,
the equivalent of four months' imports.
6.        Events then occurred which resulted in a drastic change in the
overall balance of payments of Tanzania. The 1973 and 1974 rains failed in
many parts of the country necessitating substantial increases in imports of
basic food items beginning in mid-1974. The drought also affected cash
crops, leading to a further decline in the export volumes of coffee, cotton



and sisal. Although world .prices for Tanzania's exports jumped 52 percent
in 1974, total export receipts rose only 18 percent due to drought-affected
crop yields. At this same time as a result of higher prices for imports
the total import bill for 1974 rose by 60 percent over 1973. The outcome
of these forces was a rapid depletion of net reserves to only $50 million
at the end of 1974, equivalent to only three weeks of imports. Industrial
production also stagnated in 1974, due in part to shortages of imported raw
materials and spare parts stemming from the growing foreign exchange constraint.
As a result, overall GDP may have actually declined slightly during the year
although official statistics indicate an increase of 2 percent. While pro-
duction declined, domestic demand increased rapidly, due to expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies, causing severe pressure on the domestic
price level. The retail price index for low income workers rose by 57 percent
in 1974 while that for middle-grade civil servants jumped 35 percent.
7.        During 1975, while the food production shortfall was substantially
reversed and inflation was reduced to around 30 percent, grain imports were
still required and the balance of payments situation remained critical. In
addition, export performance was extremely disappointing with total value of
exports declining by over 11 percent. The o\erall balance of payments gap for
1975 was about $140-145 million, equal to thet deficit for 1974. Tanzania was
able to cover the 1975 foreign exchange gap by curtailing imports to the bare
minimum and by securing substantial program type assistance, including a $30
million Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) from the Bank and a $24.3 million drawing on
the IMF special oil facility approved in August 1975. Tanzania's present economic
crisis cannot be attributed exclusively to drought-related crop failures and im-
port price escalation. The most disturbing aspect of Tanzania's economic situation
has been the declining growth rate of output from the agricultural, industrial
and mining sectors. The growth rate of agricultural output had been running
slightly behind the rate of growth of population for six years prior to the
harvest failure of 1974. Inadequate producer price incentives, inefficiencies
in the transport and distribution systems for inputs and marketed production,
and the effects of inadequately planned villagization (paragraph 2 below)
contributed to this disappointing performance. In the modern sector many
enterprises have experienced declining labor productivity which has been
attributed to lack of incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management.
Furthermore, while the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the
1960's,-it began to decline by 1973 and fell drastically to 7.5 percent in
1974 as a direct outcome of the balance of payments crisis. In addition to
the above-mentioned factors, the high level of investment which has gone into
slow-gestation social and economic infrastructure rather than into the directly
productive sectors has prevented more rapid growth of output.
8.        The Tanzanian Government in late 1974 formulated a comprehensive
program of policy actions to bring the balance of payments under control in
the medium run and to restore the growth rate of output.   The principal
elements of the program included a reallocation of investment in favor of
directly productive sectors, measures to raise agricultural output, steps to
improve incentives in industry and mining and to increase the export orient-
ation of these sectors, and constraints on public and private consumption
demand.    Imports were cut through direct controls and measures were introduced



- 4 -
to slow down the rate of growth of private consumption. Indirect taxes
were raised and further increased in the 1975/76 budget. User charges
for water and electricity were also raised and an extremely restrictive
wage and salary policy has been followed. Further, the government is
making a serious effort to bring the rate of growth of public consumption
expenditures under control. The 1975/76 budget called for a level of
current expenditures below the revised estimate for 1974/75 and while this
target may not be realistic the intentions of the Government are nevertheless
clear.   In addition cuts of about 7 percent in the civil service were made
in March 1976.
9.        On the production side, several steps have been taken to increase
output. The Government has raised agricultural producer prices to levels
approaching world parity and certain progressive export taxes have been
reduced or eliminated. The overall planning capability of the Ministry of
Agriculture is being strengthened and a project coordination unit to improve
implementation has been established in the Ministry. Furthermore, as a
major component of its effort to expand material production the Government
has made significant progress in reallocating public investment in favor of
the directly productive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining.
Another problem area in which action has been undertaken is that of export
development. In October 1975, Tanzania, in conjunction with Kenya and
Uganda, devalued the shilling by approximately 14 percent. Given the
heavy reliance of the East African Community on export markets in the U.K.
and the substantial recent decline in the value of sterling, this devaluation
can be construed as an attempt at restoration of competitiveness of exports
to the U.K. and also an incentive to exporters to non-sterling markets.
The Government's progress in implementing policies and programs designed
to close the balance of payments gap in accordance with understandings
relating to the program loan was the subject of a memorandum (M75-687)
from the Secretary to the Executive Directors dated September 25, 1975
(paragraph 2 above). The most encouraging aspect of the Government's res-
ponse to the balance of payments crisis was the demonstration that Tanzania
retains the ability to push through necessary and unpopular measures over
a wide front. It is this characteristic of a "hard state", together with
the basically sound program of economic restructuring, which holds the
promise for the future.
10.       Tanzania's prospects for bringing the balance of payments deficit
under control in the medium term clearly depend upon the effectiveness of
the program of policy actions outlined above. It is not possible to determine
the time period over which all the policy measures introduced by the Tanzanian
Government will take effect. The austerity measures introduced in 1974 and
1975 have already had an impact on imports and on domestic consumption,
and the recovery of food production in 1975 has clearly helped to alleviate
the food deficit. However, the basic program of economic restructuring will
require more time before its full effects can be realized. For example,
some new investments in agriculture, industry and mining that will directly
benefit the balance of payments will take several years to come to fruition.
Thus the balance of payments will remain weak in thb short run. However,
Tanzania should have a stronger economy at the end of the restructuring
process. The central focus of the assistance efforts should be, therefore,
to ensure that the balance of payments gaps arising over the next few years



- 5 -
do not prevent Tanzania from implementing a development program designed
to incorporate the required policy changes. In this connection, nego-
tiations for a proposed second program loan were recently held in Dar es
Salaam. In addition, and despite Tanzania's impressive domestic savings
performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange
component of high priority projects will also be required if Tanzania is
to achieve its development targets. Financing of some local expenditures
will, therefore, be justified.
11.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China.
Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt service ratio of
about 7 percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent by 1980 and remain
at about that level throughout the 1980's. Including a notional one-third
share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations, the IBRD is
presently holding 13 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt andIDA
10 percent; the IBRD share is expected to rist to about 13 nercent in the
next five years, and the IDA share to rise to about 13 percent. Debt ser-
vice payments to the Bank are about 13 percent of total debt service payments;
the corresponding share for IDA is about 3 percent. These two figures are
projected to rise to about 25 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980.
The debt service ratio of Bank loans to exports is expected to rise to about
2 percent by 1980. The Bank's exposure is high because several major donors
are now making their aid available either on grant basis or very concessional
terms and because as a result of prudent debt management suppliers' credits
have been kept to a minimum. The average interest tate on loans to Tanzania
outstanding at December 31, 1974 amounted to only 2.4 percent and the average
term was 22 years.
East African Community
12.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation
is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agree-
ments In existence among sovereign states in the developing world,-in practice,
the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the Partner States
is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Political developments
in the Partner States have created tension within the Community and impaired
the growth of interstate trade.   These difficulties have been compounded by
the balance of payments constraints which all three Partner States experienced.
13.       Of the Community Corporations, the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays
by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential
spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974, the Partner States agreed, with
Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the
EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a



-6-
result disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III)
were suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held in July 1975
at which an agreement was again reached on formula for sharing of debt
service payment by the Partner States, and suspension of the loan was
lifted.
14.       The Partner States recognized that because of their fundamental
political and economic differences, a review of the 1967 Treaty was called
for. For this purpose a Commission has been established consisting of
three Cabinet level officials from each country, with Mr. Demas, President
of the Caribbean Development Bank, as Chairman. Tnis Commission is ex-
pected to submit its reports by the end of 1976. While there is hope
that the Commission may deal with the structural differences in the long
run, the Corporations are still facing a difficult period.
15.       Since February 1976 the relationship betweenthe Partner States has
further deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments were again
disrupted resulting in long delay in making debt service payments to the
Bank. Disbursements to the East African Railways Corporation, the East
African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation and the East African Development Bank were suspended by the
Bank on April 28, 1976. As the Executive Directors were informed on
May 25, 1976 (Sec. M76-383), a mission visited East Africa in May to
discuss with the Presidents and Finance Ministers the debt service problems
which endangered both the Bank's operations in East Africa and the credit
standing of the Community and the Partner States (being jointly and
severally responsible). Agreement has been reached to ensure remittances
from the Regional offices of the Corporations to complete all over-due
payments and these were made by June 1, 1976. Disbursements on the
Community loans were, therefore, resumed with effect from June 1. Regarding
future debt service payments, the agreement (i) specifies fixed contri-
butions by each Partner State to meet external debt obligations, (ii) com-
mits the Governmentsto ensure remittances from the Regional offices of the
Corporations, (iii) establishes a mechanism and procedure fbr timely
payments, and (iv) provides automatic foreign exchange cover for debt
service remittances.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 23 IDA credits and nine Bank loans
amounting to $349.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million, which have been extended for the development of the common services



- 7 -
and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda
through their association in the East African Community. The only IFC
investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made in
the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their
interest in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African
Community organizations as of May 31, 1976 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
17.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 14 loans
and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of
the 18 Tanzania operations approved since then all but four: Urban Sites
and Services (Credit No. 495-TA), Highway Maintenance (Credit No. 507-TA)
and Education IV and V (Credits No. 371-TA and 607-TA), were for directly
productive projects. These directly productive projects are supporting
both the agriculture and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma Inte-
grated Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA), and our first
direct lending for an industrial project (Mwanza Textiles,Loan No. 1123-TA).
In addition, a tobacco processing project and a project to support selected
industries at Morogoro are expected to be ready for consideration by the
Executive Directors in the near future. A proposed second rural develop-
ment project and a water supply project have recently been appraised in
the field and negotiations for a second program loan were recently held in
Dar es Salaam (see paragraph 10 above).
18.       While it should be borne   in mind that over one half of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last two fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II of this report
have been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the
understandable reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative
traditional sector to adopt new "technology" and others are undoubtedly
a reflection of the strains created in a society which is attempting a
unique traverse from one set of economic, institutional and political
rules to another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these
implementation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems. An
earlier reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning and imple-
mentation has been replaced by a willingness to utilize such assistance
whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical assistance project
designed to strengthen project preparation and implementation was recently
approved by the Executive Directors. At the request of the Government
about 10 technical staff have been supplied by the Agriculture Development
Services (ADS) and a Bank staff member has recently been seconded to the
Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer



- 8 -
term attempt to alleviate the human resource constraints our lending is
expected to increasingly emphasize formal and non-formal training. Further-
more, a conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
19.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services cor-
porations (paragraphs 12-15) have affected the Bank's lending program
to the Community. Yet, while the exact form of the reorganized Community
services remains to be determined, the development of the transport and
communications infrastructure to facilitate national programs of the Partner
States will continue to be an important aspect of the development of the
three countries. We, therefore, anticipate a continuing role for the Bank
in these sectors. Field appraisal of a fourth Posts and Telecommunications
project has been completed and a Railways project and a Harbours project
will be ready for appraisal in fiscal year 1977. In each instance all
organizational and guarantee questions will be resolved before conclusion
of lending arrangements.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND FORESTRY
General Background
20.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from
this sector (of which half is subsistence production) and over 90 percent
of the economically active population is involved in agriculture. Further-
more, agricultural exports, mainly sisal, cotton, cashewnuts and coffee,
comprise about 80 percent of total exports. Most agricultural production
is from rural smallholdings using family labor: of the country's 2.5 million
farmers, 83 percent have holdings of less than 2 ha and 97 percent have
holdings below 5 ha. Major smallholder food crops include maize, millet,
sorghum, potatoes, cassava, bananas and beans produced on a subsis-
tence basis. Large-scale agriculture includes the small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice and
livestock. Tanzania's national herd, the second largest in Africa, is
grazed extensively over the 40 percent of the country free from tsetse fly
inflection.
21.       With the Arusha Declaration and the consequent emphasis on
rural needs, priority in the agricultural sector has been directed toward
addressing the needs and developing the potential of the rural smallholder.
Villagization through the ujamaa program was proposed and is being imple-
mented as an effective method of delivering essential economic and social
services to a widely scattered rural population. Parallel with the ujamaa
program, the Government had decentralized major planning and implementation
responsibility to regional and district level authorities. With this
decentralization, some of the Government's best staff were transferred to
the local authorities. This reorganization was intended to complement the



villagization effort, as the delegation of authority to the local level
should increase the Government's responsiveness to local conditions.
22.       Unsatisfied with the rate of villagization in 1974, the
Government accelerated this program. When combined with the inevitable
problem of adjusting to the reorganized structure of Government, this
increased pace of villagization overburdened the Government's capacity
to plan and coordinate the development of ujamaa. Added to the fact
that villagization itself involved fundamental changes in rural life
(new fields to plow, greater concentrations of population, in some
cases communal farming, etc.), these changes made declines in agricul-
tural production unavoidable. However, as the 1974 season progressed,
weather became the most significant influence on output - the major
drought which Tanzania faced during 1974 outweighed the disruptive effect
of villagization and massive food imports were required. When the drought
persisted in 1975, this food crisis continued. Only the Government's
willingness to devote almost all available foreign exchange to imports
averted wide scale starvation.
23.       While reaffirming its commitment to the rural smallholder,
the Government has responded to these events by redirecting the focus of
agricultural efforts to developing productive capacity. Social components
of ujamaa have been deemphasized and the importance of directly productive
investment stressed. The Government has launched economic and political
initiatives in support of this redirection. The role of producer price
incentive has been significant in this regard -- the major increases in
producer prices (para 7 above) and tax reforms have been approved to
stimulate production. Also, the broadly based National Maize Project
(supported by IDA Credit No. 606-TA) has been designed to ensure long-
term self sufficiency in maize, Tanzania's most important subsistence
food crop. In addition, the Government and TANU have mounted a massive
effort to mobilize peasants to grow more food under the campaign slogan
"farming as a matter of life and death". The effects of these measures
are presently being realized. With the return of adequate rains during
this year, food imports have been significantly reduced.
24.       The long-term potential of the new villages remains,of course,
to be proven. Increased demands for social as well as economic services
can be anticipated.  The Government's ability to respond to these demands
or to encourage village communities to engage in self help activities
when the Government cannot provide the services will be critical to the
success of ujamaa. However, it is hoped that with the end of the drought
and the reduced impact of the problems related to the acceleration of the
villagization effort, the ujamaa villages can provide a framework for
substantial cash crop production as well as adequate food crop production.
It will be particularly important that the present desire to re-establish
self-sufficiency does not result in deterioration in cash crop production.



- 10 -
The Government must ensure that the relative prices of the two types of
crops do not fall substantially out of balance and that within the villagi-
zation context an appropriate system for supporting cash crop production
and collection is developed. The Government is attempting to address
thelatter problem through its restructuring of village cooperatives but
an entire framework of coordinated policy decisions and actions will be
required before viability can be assured. While villagization has
demonstrated an impressive potential for innovation, it must now take
significant steps toward realizing its objective of providing a basis for
long-term agricultural development.
FOREST DEVELOPMENT
Resources
25.       About 50 percent of the total area of Tanzania is classified
as forest land, the greater part of which is open woodland. There are
540 forest reserves totalling 13 million ha (about 30 percent of the
forest area), and about 1.6 million ha of these reserves have been gazetted
as catchment protection forests. Although hardwood forests have produced
most of the country's domestic sawn lumber requirements in the past,
Government's present forest policy aims at the development of these
resources for production of valuable veneers and plywood which could be
exported. As the remaining native forests have a very low stocking of
merchantable timber per hectare and are widely scattered, prospects for
their economic utilization and development are poor.
26.       Presently there are 42,000 ha of softwood exotic plantations
and 6,000 ha of mostly native hardwood plantations. While these planta-
tions presently cover a very small area of the country, given the limited
potential of native forests they are expected to supply most of the timber
required by the anticipated expansion of forestry industries. Furthermore, as
many potential plantation areas are located along the recently completed Tazara
Railway, they are now within relatively easy reach of the country's main con-
sumer centers and the port of Dar es Salaam.
27.       The Government is also beginning to address the problem of rural
afforestation for both conservation purposes and the production of building
poles (used in the construction of low income houses) and fuel wood for rural
consumption. In a number of the regional development programs being prepared
forestry components are being incorporated. These local efforts will grow in
importance as a result of the Government's decentralization of forestry staff
(paragraph 30 below) and the experience gained under the initial efforts.
Demand for Forest Products
28.       Total wood consumption, estimated by the Gove5nment at 34
million m3 in 1973 is expected to rise to 37 million m by 1980 and



- 11 -
48 million m3 by 2000. Demand can be divided into two major categories,
domestic (primary rural) and industrial. At present the overwhelming
proportion of total consumption (about 98 percent) consists of the domestic
demand for fuelwood, wood for charcoal and poles. Moreover, this category
of use is expected to dominate demand throughout the century -- in 2000
it is still expected to exceed 90 percent of total consumption.
29.       As Tanzania has not yet developed a sizeable forest products industry
consumption remains low in that category. With anticipated growth in
this area, the demand for industrial wiod (currently about 500,000 m3)
is expected to increase to 3 million m by 2000. In addition to the
150 small and badly equipped sawmills presently in operation, a major new
sawmill is being completed at Sao Hill. Tanzania also has plywood mills,
a particle-board factory, a fiberboard mill, and few small paper conversion
plants. Of far greater significance than these facilities would be the
construction of the proposed pulp and paper mill at Mufindi -- Tanzania's
first mill. The Government has under consideration a mill design of about
65,000 tons per annum which would provide Tanzania with almost all its
expected requirements in the common types of both cultural and industrial
papers. This mill would be based upon existing and future forestry planta-
tions in the project area.
Government Forest Services
30.       Overall responsibility for formulating forest policy, forest
administration and management rests with the Forestry Division within the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. The administration of the
Division was decentralized in 1972, with the regional and district forest
officers becoming directly responsible for all regional and district forestry
matters. Overall sectoral policy, general administration, sectoral planning
and national projects were left to be dealt with centrally. As part of
this effort, some of the Forestry Division's best staff were transferred
to provide administrative cadres for the regions and districts. The
Division currently employs a total of 5,000 people, includilng some 20
professional foresters, 70 technical (diploma) foresters, as well as nearly
500 general technical officers and 700 field assistants. Although the
Division is now seriously understaffed at higher technical levels, it is
expected that by 1980 sufficient trained staff will be available from
both the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry in Morogoro and from other
local and foreign training institutes.
31.       Silvicultural research is carried out by the Forestry Division in
the Lushoto station and forest utilization research at the Moshi center.
The Division also administers the State forests, maintains the provincial
forest services, and implements the large scale industrial plantation
program. In addition, the Division is responsible for national park and
wildlife protection, beekeeping and soil and water conservation. Other
major forest related programs are being carried out by the Tanzania Wood



- 12 -
Industries Corporation (TWICO) and the National Development Corporation
(NDC). TWICO is responsible for the development of wood-using industries
in general and NDC is in charge of the planning and development of the
pulp and paper project.
Sectoral Development
32.        Tanzania has obvious and substantial potential in this sector.
in addition to the vast area of unutilized land, its soil and climatic
conditions are especially well suited for forestry. Reflecting this,
the planting to felling cycle for pine in Tanzania is from one half to
one third that required for similar species in Northern Europe. The
Government has recognized this potential and intends to give high
priority to its development and productive use. It has stressed the
importance of the demarcation and reservation of sufficient forested
land for ecological reasons and in order to provide a sustained yield
of forest produce for both internal use and export. Furthermore, the
Government views proper forest management as critical in order to
obtain the best financial and economic return from this valuable
resource. With these objectives in mind the Government has expressed
its intention to undertake research and education to support the
forestry effort and is prepared to assist local government and industry
in forestry development.
33.        Given this combination of potential and government commitment,
the future role of forestry development in Tanzania could be consider-
able. In efficiently expanding raw material resources, plantations are
expected to provide the necessary base for establishing a wide range
of directly productive forestry industries. In tne short-run these
industries can be expected to save significant amounts of foreign
exchange through import substitution. Over the longer-run (with
experience in forestry industries and a broader range of investments)
this sector has substantial possibilities for generating needed export
earnings.
34.       Significant Bank and bilateral activity has focused on this
sector. Through this Project the Bank would be directly supporting the
development of what is viewed as Tanzania's highest priority plantation
area to meet projected industrial demand. Bilateral agencies, especially
SIDA, have also been involved in plantation development as well as general
financial support of the Forestry Division. In the rural areas, regional
development plans are beginning to focus on increasing the production of
fuelwood and poles to meet growing demand. Through its integrated rural
development projects under preparation in both Tabora and Mwanza/Shinyanga,
the Bank is attempting to address the rural afforestation problem. Hope-
fully, these trial efforts will lead to the development of a flexible
and successful approach to meeting rural requirements.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       An apparaisal mission visited Tanzania in September/October
1975 and negotiations for this loan took place in Washington, D.C. on
May 25-23, 1976. Mr. Janguo, Commissioner in the Ministry of Finance
and Planning, led the Tanzanian deiegation. A report entitled "Appraisal
of the Sao Hill Forestry Project" (Report No. 1107-TA dated June 18, 1976
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan
and Project Summary is attached as Annex III to this report.
General
36.        Over the next five years the proposed project would form a
major part of the ongoing Government afforestation program. After
review of the potential forestry resources it was concluded that
plantations offer the most efficient means of developing forest resources
to meet industrial demand. Furthermore, studies indicate that the
Sao Hill area offers the most encouraging prospect for establishing a
large scale plantation in Tanzania and the Government has given this
Project high priority. This afforestation program would produce raw
material which could be utilized to produce a variety of end products.
Tanzania's proposed first pulp and paper mill would be based primarily
upon existing and future forest plantation in the Sao Hill area and the
country's largest sawmill is under construction in Sao Hill.
37.       This Project would finance one phase of the planned
afforestation program in the Sao Hill area, a program which ultimately
will involve the establishment and maintenance of about 60,000 ha of
pine and eucalyptus plantation. Over its full development period
(1976/77 to 1980/81) the ?roject would provide for the planting and
maintenance of about 16,000 ha of this total area, for the maintenance
of some 11,000 ha of existing plantations, as well as for the develop-
r:nt of infrastructure and forest services within the project area.
Detailed Features
38.      Providing for the afforestation of a total of 15,750 ha of
pulpwood plantations over its 5-year period, the annual planting
program in this Troject would build from 1,500 ha in year 1 to 4,500
ha in year 5. The program would include surveying of the area to
be planted, establishment of nurseries, ground preparation, planting
and replacing failures, weeding, silvicultural treatment and disease
control. In addition, some 330 ha within the designated sawlog area
would be replanted during the Project following the completion of
clear-felling operations. The reservation of adequate land (60,000 ha)
for the different phases of tne afforestation in the Sao Hill area is a
condition of loan effectiveness.



- 14 -
39.       Since good maps of the project area exist and a general survey
of the project area is expected to be completed, the project only re-
quires detailed surveying of plantable areas. This would be completed by
a special survey section in the Forestry Division (Section 3.04 of the Loan
Agreement). The Forestry Division has prepared a study on the socio-
economic impact of the Project on villages in the surrounding areas. This
study indicates that the Project is compatible with the socio-economic growth
of these villages. Agreement was reached to the effect that the Government
would take all necessary measures to prevent encroachment on the plantation
area (Section 4.05, Loan Agreement). To meet the seedling requirements of this
Project (9 million per year at full development), the existing nursery
at Sao Hill would be expanded and a second nursery established for the
northern and eastern J'roject areas. Because none of the Project areas
carries a tree cover, no special land clearing will be required. However,
it is assumed that some bush clearing would be required over 10 percent
of the planting area. The method of soil preparation would be the tradi-
tional one used at Sao Hill, strip ploughing. While existing experience
has shown that fertilization is not necessary, trials would be carried out
during the Project to confirm this finding. Planting would be done by hand
during the early part of the rainy season, which extends from December to
March. About 80 percent of the area would be planted with various pines
and the remainder with eucalyptus. Weeds are not a severe problem at Sao
Hill, but as they compete seriously with the plants for moisture they must
be kept under control. Provision has therefore been made for both mechanical
and hand weeding during the first two years of the Project. Pruning and
thinning would only be done within the small sawlog working circle at such
ages when the crop is liable to show a response. A comprehensive system
of fire prevention and control would be set up throughout the project area.
40.       Two major types of roads would be built and maintained at the
Project area in order to provide access to and mobility within the Sao
Hill plantation: primary and secondary access roads (totalling 146 km) and
tracks (396 km). In addition, all existing roads within the Project area
would be maintained. As existing buildings in the Sao Hill area are inade-
quate and insufficient, new forestry stations and related facilities as
well as housing for senior staff, technical staff and incremental laborers
would be provided under this Project. The required equipment for afforest-
ation (ground preparation, transport of labor. soil, materials and plants,
and fire control), road construction and maintenance, construction of
buildings and workshop/garages, and administration (mainly vehicles) would
also be financed under this loan.
41.       Under this Project provision would be made for the employment
of a Project Manager, a Financial Controller, two internationally recruited
specialists (a Silviculturist/Forest Economist and Roads/Mechanical Engineer),
technical, clerical and financial supporting staff, and health personnel.
Appointments to the first four positions will be made in consultation with
the Bank and the appointment of the Project Manager and Silviculturist/
Forest Economist is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of
the Loan Agreement) whereas the Financial Controller and the Engineer will
be appointed by November 15, 1976 (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
In addition, the Government will not transfer key local staff to other
Government employment without adequate replacement (Section 3.07 of
the Loan Agreement). Provision would also be made for administrative
costs and the running costs of project vehicles during the 4 year develop-
ment period. Forest research in the project area would be carried out
by the Forestry Division under the direct supervision of the Project
Manager.
42.       The Project would include financing for a pulp mill water study,
a road engineering study and aerial photography of the project area.
The availability of required water for the proposed 65,000 ton pulp mill
(and for itd subsequent expansion to 180,000 tons) and the most economical
solution to effluent disposal of the mill would be investigated in the
first study. In addition, because of the need to link the Sao Hill
plantation area with the proposed mill site, provision would also be made
for experts to carry out an engineering study identifying the best align-
ment of a connecting road down the escarpment. These experts would also
prepare preliminary engineering plans and cost estimates. Terms of reference
and expert selection for both these studies would be in consultation with
the Bank (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement}. Aerial photographs of the
total planted area and areas selected for second phase plantations would
be carried out in the fourth year so as to allow checking of plantation
boundaries with field data and to permit detailed planning of future
plantation layout.
Organization and Management
43.       The Project would be executed by the Forest Division of the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Project activities would be
directed by a Project Manager with headquarters at Sao Hill, who would be
responsible to the Director of Forestry. He would be assisted by a Finan-
cial Controller and two internationally recruited specialists (a Silvi-
culturist/Forest Economist and a Roads/Mechanical Engineer). All would
be stationed at Sao Hill headquarters during the Project period. The
tasks of the Silviculturist/Forest Economist would include the planning
of the planting program, the review of silvicultural methods and the
introduction of more efficient operating methods, cost-benefit control and
monitoring of Project indices, on-the-job training and the review of the
labor and staff situation. The Roads/Mechanical Engineer would be responsible
for the construction and maintenance of roads and firebreaks, the main-
tenance of vehicles and equipment and the operation of workshops and stores.
In addition to their normal duties, these two individuals would train their
counterpartsand the Project staff in their respective fields of competence
and responsibility. The Manager responsible for this year's plantation
program would be expected to remain in post as the Project Manager.
44.       The Forestry Division would set up and maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures,
and it would keep separate accounts for the Project (Section 4.02(a) of
the Loan Agreement). Project accounts would be audited annually by the



- 16 -
the Auditor General and these audited accounts, together with the Auditor's
report, would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.       Total Project costs net of taxes are estimated at $8.1 million.   The
foreign exchange component is estimated at $2.4 million or approximately 30 per-
cent of total costs. Physical contingencies of 10 percent on equipment, housing,
building and service road construction, and price contingencies amounting to 49
percent of baseline Project costs are included in Project costs. The latter
reflects the projection of continued rapid domestic inflation. Details of
Project costs are included in Annex III. The proposed Bank loan of $7.0 million
would finance 86 percent of Project costs: the foreign exchange component as well
as $4.4 million of local costs. Financing of local costs is considered justified
(para. 9 above). The Government would provide the remaining 14 percent of Project
costs.
Procurement and Disbursements
46.       Procurement of equipment and vehicles in orders exceeding US$80,000
would be by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines;
orders would be bulked whenever possible. Orders less than US$80,000 would be
obtained under Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The
infrastructure work and the afforestation would be completed by the Forestry
Division under force account: due to the labor-intensive nature of the work
and the remoteness of the area it would not be likely to attract either local
or international competitive bidding.
47.       The Bank loan would finance 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of
imported equipment, 100 percent of the fees and expenses of the internationally
recruited personnel, 90 percent of the costs related to studies and aerial
surveys, and 70 percent of plantation establishment, forest roads, and
Project management costs. Disbursements for expenditures in respect of
items procured through international or local competitive bidding and for
studies and technical assistance would be subject to standard Bank disburse-
ment procedures requiring full documentation. Operating costs and expend-
iture by force account would be approved by the Project Manager and by the
Ministry of Finance. The documentation for these would not be submitted,
but would be retained by the borrower for review during Project supervision.
Retroactive financing for the Silviculturist/Forest Economist up to the
amount of US$25,000 is proposed in order to ensure an early Project start-up.
Stumpage Rates
48.       Stumpage rates (fees) are payable on forest produce when the
produce is removed. Based on the present rates for plantation poles and



- 17 -
logs (the latter was more than doubled in 1975), pulpwood
stumpage rates would have been about TSh 40/m3 in 1975 prices. Yet,
in order to achieve full recovery of total plantation costs it was
estimated by the appraisal mission that the Government would have to
charge an average stumpage rate of TSh 54/m3 in March 1976 prices
for appropriate pulpwood inputs. This figure would, of course, have
to be adjusted upward in the future in order to maintain its real
value. Reflecting the basic principle of charging fees which incor-
porated the real plantation costs, the Government will charge stumpage
rates which ensure self-supporting industrial plantations, by January 1,
1985 for eucalyptus and on January 1, 1992 for pine; this will be the
stage at which these species planted under the Project will begin
to be harvested (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits -- Economic Justification
49.       The plantations established and maintained under this Project
will provide the major source of raw materials for the proposed pulp
and paper mill. In addition, some of the Sao Hill reserves would be
set aside for a sawlog working circle as an input for the new TWICO
sawmill beginning in 1976. The Project itself is an integral part of
the Government's long-term plantation program at Sao Hill which involves
the establishment of a total of 65,000 ha of plantations by the early
1990's. The economic justification of this Project is based upon this
entire afforestation program as well as related industrial development.
This overall pulp and paper program comprises the plantation of a total
area of 60,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus; maintainance of existing pulp-
wood plantations (some 8,800 ha); logging operations over 850 ha of
15-year old pines and 280 ha of eucalyptus per annum (rising to 2,600 ha
of pine and 1,200 ha of eucalyptus); the establishment of a 65,000 TPA
pulp and paper mill and its extension to a capacity of 180,000 TPA and
the subsequent processing of wood. The major quantifiable benefits would
arise from the production of paper and paperboard -- at full development
in 21 years, the annual value of production is expected to reach TSh 995
million (US$123 million). A sawlog working circle of 5,000 ha would
eventually support two shifts of the TWICO mill presently under con-
struction. Based on the entire long-term program, the economic rate of
return of the pulp and paper portion is estimated at 13.5 percent over
37 years. The rate of return for sawlog production has been estimated
at 21.4 percent over 26 years.
50.        Anticipated project benefits would be distributed among those
to be employed directly in the plantation program (who would fall within
the lower rural income bracket) and those employed in related processing
industries. The project would result in direct additional employment
of about 500 man-years. The project would have various unquantifiable
benefits from the training and research programs as well as the rural
road system. In addition, the project will prevent erosion in the Sao
Hill area and improve soil and water conservation. As the project is
located in a grassy highland, no indigenous forest would have to be



- 18 -
felled to implement this plantation scheme. The Project is not
expected to have any tangible negative effects on the ecosystem of the
area to be planted.
Risks
51.       The principal risk facing this Project would be that the
envisaged pulp and paper mill would not be constructed. However, the
preparation of the pulp and paper mill (now in an advanced stage) has
indicated that the present proposal has strong economic merits and is
financially viable, even with the increased stumpage rates proposed in
para 48. Since the mill project also has the strong backing of the
Government and has received initial support and provisional interest in
cofinancing by bilateral sources, there is a high likelihood that it will
be implemented. Furthermore, even in the unlikely event that no pulp
and paper mill is constructed at any time, the resources established
under this Project could be redirected toward sawlog production. This
would simply involve limiting the afforestation program to this first
phase and allowing the Sao Hill plantation to grow a 25-year rotation
producing sawlogs. Additional sawmills would then have to be constructed
and their production could be used to meet new local demand and for
export. In view of these considerations, and the overlying fact that
this Project is directed at providing necessary raw materials to an
industry in which Tanzania appears to have significang long-range com-
parative advantages, it is concluded that the risks are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Bank, the recommendation of the Committee referred to
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
the draft resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows
the form previously used for this type of project.
53.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 39, 41, 44 and 48. The employment of the
Project Manager and Silviculturist/Forest Economist and the reservation
for the afforestation program of 60,000 ha in the Sao Hill area are
conditions of Loan effectiveness.



- 19 -
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recormend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 18,1976






Flage 3. of li pages
STABL.E 5A
TANZANIA               De [OAL  uuICArOuS maTA gaETg
LAND AREA (TWOU KN2)                  *    -   -    *   *    *
--;;;;L ......                      ~~~~~TANZANIA  S   RCN              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
ARABLE         .                       1960      1970    ESTIMATE          KENYA         KOREA, RV5. 07 MALAYSIA-
G4P PER CAPITA (USS)                      600        100        100100                         200         440.0
POPULATION 4MB VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION CR10-YR. MILLION)  ~9.6 i     12.9 1i i.@Li                  11.2        31.4       t0.9
POPULATION   EST
PRSUARPE::R.                       10.0       14.0        1.0                19.0      319.0        33.0
PERt SQUARIE RN: ARABLE LARO                    LAY17.         ...                          419.0
VITAL STATISTICSa
CRUD  BITHRTE PER THOUSAND         46.0LJ     47.           .                416.        20         34.o i.
CRUDE DETHNTEPERTHOUSAND              253.0 L5J  22.00.                         180          6.70 
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/TOU          190.0      160.0           .5.L.                         .        41. 
LFE E:PECTANCY AT BIRTH (TR$)        38.0       42.0        44.0               48.0        6.64.0a~
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .         3.2         3.2                3. 4        2.6        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                  2.3       .3.0         2.9                3.1         2.4        5.1
URAN                                     .        5.0/a       4.5                7.0 /b      6.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)            4.0O        6.0/ai     7.0               10.0        41.0       29.0 /a
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                        42.00 -gb  44:.4  .       .84                         421        65.0a
15 to 64 YEARS                        560        530.                           46.         54.6       5 2. 0 ~a
65 TEARS AND OVER                      2.0 a b1   2.6 L.       .                 3.6         3. 3        3.0 a
AGE ,OEPENOENCY RATIto                   0.8    b   0.           .11                           00         0.9a
ECONOMIC DEPENDECY RATIO                 0.          12          ..1.                  Ij1.                1.69
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            .           ..                             ..                  2. 
usER  (I OF NARRIED WOMEN)              O..                     ....                                     .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LBROCE(THOUSAND)                4900.0     5600.0 Lo.,.    .               10.       104500.0    290 0.I 0
LA BOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE tl)           ..       91.0Z          .90. LO                     50.5       47.0 Z
UNEMPLOYEO (1OFLABOR rORCE)                                                                                   Lb.  .  .50  i  .
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVA.TE ICOEREC-D BY
HIGHES   SIOF POPULATION                .         33.5 ~        .20.2                       20.1       28.,3
HGHEST 201 OF POPULATIO                .        63.3 /~        .52.6                       47.1       56.0/
LOWEST  201 If POPULATION               ..        23 /          .3.9:                         .          3.5
LOWEST  40Z OF POPULATION               T. .8                                   11.         162'       11.2 L
DISTRIA3UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I  AE)B  TOP  01OONER                  ....                                              280
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS            ..' .                                      .2. 0
HEALTH AND NUTRITIDN
POULATION PER PHYSICIAN            200000.0 ad21570. 0/a  21450. 0 /a         780.0       2210.0/     380.0~a
POPULATION PER NURSIN    ERSN         87.     i    B0        4170.0 /a          147.0        76.0       08.0o
POPULATION PER HOSPITA AED             530.0                                     a 0.0  .  1.0  1920.0  27 0.0 ~a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)          69.00      730         98.               1010       1063.0       94. 0 f
PROTEIN (GRAM4S PER D AY              42.        43.0        6a3.0              '1.0        6S.0       4.9. 0 f
-OF WHICH'ANIMAL AND PULSE          22.0/e     23.0          .                29.0        19.0       20.0f~
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               .           ..                             ..                   4.0
EDUCATION
ADUTDENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOO L                       25.0       37.0          ..               6.0        104.0       89.0
SECONDOARY SCHOOL                      2.0        3.0          .'9.0za                      41.0       34.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLI NG PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SEC OND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0        13.0               13.0        12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL !NRO..LNENT
(I OF SECONDAY                        23.0       10.02d0k 1z 5.0                                        3.0
ADULT LITERACY RATEC).                                ..                          30.           .        7.0
HOUS ING
P;ERSNS PER RODOR (AVERAGE)              ~.                        ..                           2.7        2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                                  3.,,                                        00/        50/
ACCCSS'YO ELECTRICITY                      .        30...                                     6.0         50
Cl OF ALL DAELLINGS)                     ...                                      .         50.0       43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRI CITY C) 'I....                                                                   30.0       30.0
CONSUAP TI ON
RADIO R;ECEIVERS (PER THOU Pop)           2.0        11.0       16.0               40.0       126.0       41.0
PASSENGE R CARtS I PER THOU POP)          .          3.0       3S.C                9.0         2. 0      25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWHM/Y R PER CAP)          15.01      2 9:OLa     31.0 /a            68.0       309.0      36,6.0/
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.1         0.1                0.5         3. 4       40
SEE N;OTES AND DEFIITOS O       E   S



ANN= I
Page   of (a pages
Unle.ss otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Reoent Estimate between
1971 & 1973.
n-  Malayia has been selected as an objective country because its population is cosperable in size and its econojic development, is seocral steps
ahead of Tanzania.
TANZANIA         16          Mainland Tanzania;  /b  1957, African population;   /i Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to totl. labor force.
d1962;   La 1961-63;    /f 1958. Z,annibar;   a   1963.
970     Is Mainland Tanzania;    ab 1967;    /c Households;   Ai 1965; j   a. Urban only.
MOST NECNT     lMI       L /  Mainland Tanzania.
KENYA            1970    /.Registered only;    lb 962-69;     La RaLtio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-5P years;
,/d labor force age 15-59 yerar;   /e Urban households;    If Registered, not all practicing In the country;
7-Includes teacher training at the third level.
KOW~I4,RE  l O   1970    Is Registered;   /b Registered, not all practicing in the country;     , Piped water inside.
MALAYSIA         1970   I. Went Malaysia;    /b  Registered applicants for work;   ZcHonashoido;      d  Registered, not all1 practicIng :n tie
country;   /e Governoet only;     If  196L-66;   Li 197      /b  Piped water Inside.
Ri March 19, 1976
NBUTOs M? ilCIdI D(DIATRS
P       ours      non -~ Population divided by umuser Of practl-
Toal-oa       sraearea coppiaing land area end inland waters.                       c     naa          age     t nurses   . "trained" or 1'certified0 nurses,
treble - M1oat recent estimate of lad area, used teapararl  or pemanently           and auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
far  ,,livsl cc ~eesre,  rhet and kitohan gardens or to lie fallow.             tto          in oP aL._d - Population divided by number of hospital
bOdave labei publc and private general end specilalised hospital
ca Ut$) -.GUP per capita setimates at market prices, calon-              and rehabilitation centers:, excludes nursing hones and estahlish,,nts
a"IUWiiinve'etu       moethod as MOrld Bank AtlAs (1972-71, basis),           for custodial and preventive care.
Population end vital statistics                                er apit ema ofcalrira (Io         auiee       )   - Conuted fro-
Pop.ltior   dUTW    _-_A8of Joly firal; if not available, average           capita. par day;, available supplies comprise domesnic production,
of twoshdn4iKiiThafs.                                                             imports less weports, and changes In stock; net supplie a eclude
animal feed, aseede, quantities uaed In food processing1ed losses
POcolato  esiy-r          e     kr  e  - Hid-year, population psr square kilo-      In distribution; raquirmtant  wars estimated by PAl honed on pbysi-
Posltern de0 hetrs     ftta,aea                                                       gical neede for normal activity and health considering environ-
Populato densitny -   pe  qaecOf arabLa land - Computed as above fwc               iet-altmeau, boct' weight-, age and sex distributions of popu-
amble laud oniy.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~lation, ankd allowing 10% for waste at heusehoid level.
V't"l ""t'  a                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pelr cmli  uplyo  rotein (gram nor day) - Protein content of per
Vital~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~~~capt staisic
Crude bIrIE r-  Annual live births per tb-cepitd netmsuppl                          offoo  Per da; net supply of food in deftned as
Crueabri ralte Pe huad-ima            iebrb        e  huado        l-above; requirestni                for all countries established by USIA Economic
yearpopuatio; usallyfiv-yeAr avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and              Resmearch Services provide fO, a olicics alowa-c of 60 gram  Of total
195fr      saopn      nusre.                                                       protein per day, and 20 grass of aniraal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crde et rates  rthouand      A-PAnna deaths par thouand of addpear               ares. should be sni-t pr-ltst these standards are lower than those
population  uulyfv.,sraverages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      of 75 gram  of total protein and 23 greats of animal protein an, en aver-
for developing countries.                                                         age for tin world, proposed bY TAO in the Third World Food Survey.
infant ortalt rate /thsu)      h- nul deths of infants under one year             Pe       a   ain          fs    nimal and Pulse - Pr-otin supply of food
of age par thousand live birthsngram. pe                                                                     dy
life        nczat birth     A)    verage number of years of life reasin-          mathdratssi perithoslJ      -Annulggragrpar day
a   t; onusl3   fva-year -avrages, enin in 196C0, 1970 end 1975             yaws, to chillbehin this age group; suggested as an indicator of nfl-
for developing countries.                                                         nutrition.
Cr.s ro!duction rate - Average number of live daughters a vocean will
bear Inhr -no    lreiVtproductive period if she expsriecea presezt age-         Zdnoation
opecific fertility rates; usuall  five-year averages ending in 1960,            Adutderlon ato-piaysho                     - Enrollment of all ages as
1970and  975for  eveoping countries                                         percentage of primary school-age populatiotn; inclu,des children, aged
POnOlett,Eow      rats     total .- Compound annoai growth rates of sid-           6-11 Years, but ad/iusted for different lengths of primary education,
yerp  tIn  o       -0      -70, and 1960 in most recent year.                for countries with universal education, enrollmen'. sa  exceed 100%
P.cuatio _gro t ae1%          ra   - Computed like growth rtat of totalsicsospilarbeworbvete                                  fiilsholg.
popoiattn; dfreent  efintinn  ofurba  ares ma afect ampaa-tdlotd enrollment r   tio - secondary school - Computed as above;eod
bility of data among countire.                                                  amy; eatcation requires at least four ye"ar of approved prisery instruc-
U   ~             oa)-Rtoo rban  to totlpplton;                             tol provides general, vocational Or teacher training Instruction for
fer  fititione or urban areass nay effect cnsmparnbfluty of data             uiso     2t     7yaso      g;coreed         acussw          eeal
among countries.                                                                  ePuPl oded.        7yag f-o         orspnec        ores"       eeal
AN~Et'EutUr   f a  t)- Children (0-3-, Years), working age (15-64, year),   Yasxf chooling ro     de (frt and sepond levels; - Total years of
ndretiredR F   IsE and over) as percentages of sad-yawr population.             scoln;a        eodr      ea,vctin-isrcinnyb                   atal
Ag   dan   ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and sear to               or   m   Letel excluded.                 :ntPCio         b      pri.
th         1               1.                                                      oaoa erlmnt(            fncodr)-Vocational institutions include
emi. ~H       ratin --ai     fpouainuder 25 and 65 and over                  technical, inutial or- ote      rorm      hictl operate independentily,
foe    armce in age grauP of 15-64, yeaws,                                  or as deparinenta of secondary institutions.
Pant e    n-cetr cmltv,to                   )-Oosai'           rO                 Adult   te'rZo rats () -_literate adults (able to read and write) as
ace  ors 0  ~     0dlemunder auspices of nationatl family                     iEthurgds                ouainagd1          er    n   vr
Planning program since Inceptio.                                                  Pm         ottldl            ouainae         5yaeado
PFamiyuPlas-," - users (S of married women) - Percentagesa of married            H
women of ohfld-b-a-J- a-g-e7Zl-W  yeatrs)-who use birth-control devices         Persmb =e room(ae     g)-Avneumrofpsnsaromincuid
to all inrried wonan in sans age group.                      convecttonftl cfrlling  in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pereanent
ftloyment                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~structures and unocupied parts.
Total labor ro-a (thouaMd              ino                      Lvs ~~Occuiad urbalnewihuppd wateru ( nside- Ocupaiednepipnd. dwtell
2khoassroftbausam   ) - konomicaLly active persoa,o  including               dosi,ra        n   ua    rs     ihu   inid   or Ocutsiedcnenpipedl waer
armed forca an      unemloyled but excluding housewives, students, etc.;          facilities as percentag  oaLl occupied dwellings.
definitions in censous countdtie  are not comparable.                           Acces toelcri t     C       of all wlig)-Cnetinldelnswt
labor fore in to  u_re 0    Agricultural labor fore. (in faring,                electricityrin iigqatrcspret fttldendi                          ra
forestry, buiiting -dfiVshng) as percentage of itotl labor fm-ce.                 .ra rural areas.igqa          r   spretofttldalndI                 r
Oh!_lad  ~ oflabo  f c) - Unemployed are usually defined -eW perons           h,4 tln      scoetdi        lcrct      5        optda      hn    o   ua
ebwb' abl      sniiitifl~iyjt  tak  a J.b, ot of a (oh on a gives day,"           milings cny.LtrctrW                        -CXtd         abvfrrua
reained out Of a job, and seeking work f or a specified mini.e
period not exeein    one weeks ma not be comparable between countries           cos    to
doe to different definitions Of unemployad and soiree of data, e.g.,                  reewre         to      I-Al ye       o   eeiesfo      aiobod
employment Office statistics, sample surrqs, compu'lsory unamploywenit            casts toeeap            prTosn       o   ouaIn;ecue           m
insuranga.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~licensed receivers in countries and in yeaws when registration of
Inoedistributionk - Percentage of private income (both In cash and               sainc  oats couSntre abolishedat licensing,    mVno      b   c Wbl
kn)received by rlcheet 5%, richesi 20%, poorest 2C%, and pooressne ot                     co' t) -blse liensinsgercr            pie,trcr         et
1,0% of populaoi~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                     lse Mmampersons         excludes wAmbulances, hoaxwe0 and
DItibuti     of land   aIB     - Percentages of land Owned by wealth-                                     cc   - Annual l"  consumption of Industrial, eoar-
bet 1U   n     >OratV   of land owners.                                           C., PUDLc e         ae    lctricity in kiloamtt hours p      er apta;
;M t=-d triticn                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~geerally baseod on production data, without allowance for leases In
Helt  nd   hc                                                                   grids-but allowing for imports end exports of electricity,.
t           cRINioin - Population divided by nuasbe of practinigtI-Prcpiaana                                            osmpini         iors
p  o ens q  e  o a nedical scool at univerity level.         es        o   s rodmetc Production plus net imports Of neesprinti



Page 3 of 4 Pages
Actual                       ProLectd             1917-    1973 -   197.4.-  19 75 -  19 73    19 75   DjBO
NATIONAL ACC0OITS                          17        94        !L         96     16         92        ~       ~       18
Gross Domestic Product         1~~~~~At 19736           es  E,chageRats            verage Annal Growth Rates         As Perent of GOY _
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                        -14'2      -45.6    -50.3    -79.8                                           -     -2.4    -3.3
Gross Domestic Income                     1819.2     MrS' 6    f9MW3*4  r97.6 12ES7.1        4.5      1.9      2.2      4.7    'TDT.0 rI0.D   1
Import (incl. NSF)                         519.8     530.6      469.3    483.3   584 8      6.8       2 1    -11.6      4.5      28.6   PA,8    24.5
Exports   1.(import capacity)              A1LO      308.8      257.8    283.4    382.8      2.6    -25.9    416.5       8 2     22.9   13.6    16.0
Resource Gap                               102.8    'M2. 8     -71.5    7W. 9    -7DT. 0                                        =7      3T:2    EY7
Consumption Expenditures                   1538.6   1668.4     1688.4    1722.2  2052.5      4.8      8.4      1.2       4.0     84.6   89.1    86.1
Investment       (mncl. stocks)            406.6     407.0      418.1 .  455.3    533.6      8.4      0.2      2.7       5.0     22.4   22.1    22.4
Domestic Savings                           280.6     18~.2      206.6    255.4    331.6      2.7    -34.0     11.6       9.9     1.5.4  10.9    13.9
National Savings                            286.8    187.2      213.9     251.8   291.7      3.4    -34.7      14.3      6.4     15.8    11.3   12.2
MERCHANISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total
1972     1973       1974                        1980                                          1973    1975   198-0
Tnports
Capital goods                  125.2      135.1    185.7                        329.6                                         29.4    25.7    29.3
Intermediate goods (mELfuels) 154.4       169.4    189.2                       378.2                                          36.8    31.9    33.7
F'uels and related materials    41.3       53.1    148.5                        301.1                                         11.6    26.0    26.8
of which:  Petrolesun        (41.3)    (53:1)   (148.~5)                     (301.1)                                       (11.6)  (26.0) (26.8)
Cons-'ion gOd                   J2J      .IQL   2 .JU.                         .JA.                                           22.2    16.5    10. 2
a  erc4 .   4rs(cf          03.8     459.8    738.5                       1123.7                                        100.0    100.0  100.0
Exports
Primary produicts (~sl. fuels)  208.6    263.6     309.8                       471.0                                          79.8    75.0   69.8
Fuels and related materials     30.7       12.5     18.5                         52.5                                          3.8     5.8     7.8
of which:  Petroleum          (30.7)   ( 12.5)   (18.5)                       (52.5)                                        (3.8)   (5.8)   (7.6)
Manufactured goods              49.1      51-4      55.4                        151.2                                         16.5    19.2    22.4
Toa  ac. Fxorta (fob)     28.       330.5    383.7                        647L7                                                 ~  o    1T
Tourism and Border, Tradie
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 197~3-.  * 10
Export Price Index               89.6     100.0     120        142.2    157.9  201.6
Import Price Index               86.7     100.0    159.0       177.1    185.9  243.6
Terms of Trade Index            100.2     100.0     95.6        80.3     84.9   82.8
Exports Volume Index            109.7     100.0     81.2        71       79    ill
VAUJE ADDED SY SEDCTOR            AAnual Data at 1973-    Prices and Exchange RaLtes         Aver!ge Annua   Grlowth Rates     As Percent of Total
1967-7     972_74   1975-80       1973   1975    1980
Agriculture                     640.6     647.7    634.1       665.8    685.8   784.7       2.         -0.       3.3        39.3    37.9   35.6
Industry and Mining             206.6     208.7    210.8       217.1   -228.0   281.1       5.0         0.6      5.3        12.7    12.3   12.7
Service  737.0     790.0    834.3      076.0     919., u4i,:6        6.1         6.4      5.4        48.,0   49.8   51.7-
Total                          1584.2    1646.4   1679.2      1758.9   1833.5  2207.3       4.5         3.0      4.6       100. 0  100.0  100.0
Actual                Beat.   Budget                                                                   2
PUBLIC FINANCE                      FY72     PY73    "FY74       FY75      FY76                                                  As Percent of GDP2-
(CejntralGovernment)                   (in millions o-f current T S-hillings                                                   Fy72    FY73   FY74
Current Receipts               1859       2357     3002       3884     4007                                                 17.7    19.7   23.2
Current Expenditures           1717       2134     2685       3694     3530                                                  16.4   17.8   20.8
Buldgetary Savings              142        223      317       T19-     77                                                    1.-3    1.9    2.5
Other Public Sector             241        264       ..        .         .2.3                                                        2.2
Public Sector Investment       1694       1836     1996       2301      .~16.2                                                      15.3   15.4
CURRENT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                        Actuai         Prelim.   Eat.
As % Total Current Expend.)                   -D719'    F197 3   Fy1974   y197 5
Education                                      17.5       16.7     14.8    16.1
Other Social Services                          12.5       11.8     11.7    14.6
Agriculture                                    28.3       25.4     31.4k   23.2
Other Economic Services 
Admainistration and Defense )41.8                        46.1      42.2    46.1
Other
Total Current Expenditures                    100.0     100.0     100.0   100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1965       1973     197.6   1981
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1970      1975      1980    1985
Average ICOR                                      71g       T-T      -T -T T3
Import Elasticity                                 1.6      -0.5       1.0     1.1
Ma~rginal Domestic Savings Nate                   0.1      -0.6      0.3      0.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                    n.2      -0.6       0.2     0.1
LABOR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker (l. currant prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                in Mllilons          of Total,                         In U.S.Dollars      PretoAverage
1971       -.      1971                                    1971                 197 1
Agriculture                     5.3                91                                     98                    43
Industry                        0.1                 2                                   1590                   694
Service                         0.4                 7                                   2170                   948
Total                           5.8               100--n                                     -                   u
not applicable        - 1    rnglgbei                        Parstateal contributLon to net current i ....e.
not available     less than half the               2/ Averaged from calendar year.
not available  -- smallest unit shown                                                                                    MEaACPe9 76



Page 4 of 4 Pag8"
WANt 0?8 i PASEI?S, EXT836L ASSISTA5CIS AltD DEST
(e.rnCsat  in edillig. of U.S. dolleN, at currant price)
Avg. Annusal
Prj acted                                       Growth Rate
TM           TM                      -1976      1977       1976       1979       1980                    1972  -190
SLHMARY BALANCE OF PAYHNSTS
Eaportn (itcl. NFS)                        397.5       417.0       491.0                    574.4     643.0      718.7      816.2      922.1                      11.1
I,port. (itcl. NFS)                                                                         7 .75     883.5      989.4     1113.1     1265.4                      13.0
Re.onrce 8aloace (X-M)                     .78.6      .102.8 I      3T,                   .20t.3     -240.5     .270.6     -297.0     -343.3                      28.8
Intere-t  (net)                            )T3.4         10.4       .6.8                   .24.8      -30.1      -32.7      -35.6      -39.8                      34.2
Direct I    eet-.ent Ioam.                 )             .5.5         0.5                    -2.0      -2.0       -2.0       -2.0       -2.0
Workers' R-Lcttan..                          0.0         0.0          0.0                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Current Transfer  (net)                     -1.7         0.7        4   j7                     .4                 15.0       15.      0 15.0
B.,..      &________                                                3322                          7   2___      -2104      -396       -320.1
Ealonce on oCrrent Accounts                .637                  _._6                                                4 
_______________              ___                     ___~~~~~~~~~~422 Ah               -23Y       -~            _
Privote Dir-t Inve1teent                    -             1.5         2.7                     2.8       2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8                      12.5
Official Capital Grant.                     16.0         16.0        20.0                    27.5      30.3       33.3       36.6       40.3
Public MbLT                                110.6        88.4        107.6 l/ 112.9                    111.3      133.5 5/   160.8 5/   191.4 5/                   11.2
-Repayneot.                                34         -18 3                                -18.4     -21.1      -27 4      -          -39.6                      12.5
Net Disburoeneate                           9    .9                                          94.5      90.2b.1         1     30.5      151.8                       6.0
Other MHLT Loans   V                         ...        ...          ..                      ...       ...        ..
D- bnr-eent.
Net Diahb-reoent.                            4.5          T?         2                                            ..
U a  of IMF Ren.oroea                        -            _          46.3                                                              Actual
Capitol Tronoo.titns n.e.i.                 28.2        -29.3        63.8                                                1972      1973     1974     1975
Chanog  1n Not R--orve,                    -60.2       -20.5         91.0                   DgBT A! D DgBT 04MSE E g
flicDebtDOu.&6 Dburaed 335.6          416.4     565.2    789.7
GRANT AND LOAN COMMIThENTS
OffIcial Cr-ot. &G rant-like                                                                  Interest en Public Debt      6.9      8.2       8.9     12.2
R.paynants on Publi.  Debt  29.0      11.4     12.7     22.0
Public M6LT Lo...                                                                             Total Public Debt Service   35.8     19.6      21.6     34.2
IBRD                                                                 65.0                     Other Debt Service (net)    ..
IDA   6                                     10.8        28.8         61.2                     Total Debt Service (net)    ..
Other -
Other M.ltil.ter.l                            3.3         1.8         7.1                   Burden on Saport Eamings (I)
CG-or tne.to                                 49.3        94.9       112.5
Soppllers                                    -           -           .                        P9n11o Debt Service          9.0      4.7       4.5      7.1
Fin.ncl I Iontitution                        -           _           _                        Total Debt Service            ..      .         .4
Do-d-                                                                                         TDS+Direct Inveat. Inc.      10.2     6.0       4.4      9.5
Public Loaod n.e.i.
Total Public MALT Loan..                       6           ;3                                 Average Teru  of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstaading an Dec. 31. 1974                Int. a  7. Proir Year D060   2.7      2.4      2.1       2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT                            Dlb.rs     MIT               Percent                   Amort. a. 1 Pritor Year DOD 11.1     3.4       3.1      3.9
World Benk                                    .9                      7;8
IDA                                         63.3                     11.8                     IIRD Debt Out. & Diabur..d
Other Multilnterol                           10.4                     1.9                         as 1 Public Debt 060     7.2       7.9      7.3      9.7
Covorn-e-to                                 389.9                    72.5                     a-   s % Public Debt Serv 9/ 3.6      11.2     13.0     16.9
S ppliero                                    0.1
"I .cc.ol latltutions                       12.3                      2.3                   IDA Debt Out. & Diebursed
Bondo                                        7.9                      1.5                      as T Public Debt 08D       14.6     13.8      13.2      9.6
Pobilo Debts n.e.i.                         13.0                        4                      as 1 Public Debt Serv. 9/   1.1      2.0       2.8      1.9
Totol Poblc- M6LT Debt                     537.9                       .0
Notlonal one-third share of FAC debt        86.0
of nhich  World Book                      (38.0)
Other                          (48.0)
TNTAL                                      623.9
.nt opplicobl.                                            e staff entinuat                11 P.reutatal and Private MLT loans.
.ot vtiloble                                                i nil or negligible           2/ Includes drawing on Areb Fund for Africa ($7.1 a.)
.. not ovailable aeporately                               -- le.. than half the             3/ Includes bilateral and nultilateral progr-n usni.tance of $91.0 a.
bht incloded in total                                       no11ent unit shoun           4/ Inclodea proposed 18RD progrm   credit of $30.0 p.
5/ No progron aeistance ass-ed.
6/ IMF Otl Facility and Credit Trancbe.
7/ Not including Tanzania's share in SAC debt.
9/ IBRD and IDA Debt Service aa 2 of Public Debt Service
EACPLA
May 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF   MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year     Borrower     Purpose                      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                     65.2    43.0
586  TA      1969    Tanzania      Roads                         7.0              1.9
149  TA      1969        "         Education                             5.0      0.5
217  TA      1970        "         Tobacco                               9.0      1.2
232  TA      1971        "         Education                             3.3      1.3
265  TA      1972        "         Roads                                 6.5      2.6
287  TA      1972        "         Smallholder Tea                      10.8      4.6
371  TA      1973        "         Education                            10.3      9.7
382  TA      1973        "         Livestock 1/                         18.5     14.4
454  TA      1974        "         Cotton                               17.5     15.7
460  TA      1974        "         Tanzania Investment Bank              6.0      3.0
715  TA      1974     TANESCO      Power                         5.0              0.6
1014  TA      1974     Tanzania     Cashewnut                    21.0             13.8
495  TA      1975                  Sites and Services                    8.5      6.4
507  TA      1975                  Highway Maintenance                  10.2     10.2
508  TA      1975                  Rural Development                    10.0      9.4
513  TA      1975                  Sugar                                 9.0      3.4
1041  TA      1975                  Sugar                         9.0              9.0
580  TA      1975                  Dairy                                10.0      9.9
1128  TA      1975                  Textile                      15.0             14.7
1172  TA      1975                  Tanzania Investment B2nk     15.0             14.3
601  TA      1976                  Technical Assistance-/                6.0      6.0
606  TA      1976                  National Maize Program               18.0     18.0
607  TA      1976                  Education                            11.0     11.0
Total                                            137.2    212.6    181.6
of which has been repaid                          1.0     3.4
Amount sold                   0.1
of which has been repaid    0.1
Total now outstanding 3/                          136.2   209.2
Total undisbursed                                 54.3    127.3
1/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $3.4 is undisbursed.
2/ Not yet effective
2/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS   OF MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                        Bank      Undisbursec
Three loans fully disbursed                                       75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC         Harbours                        35.0          2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC          Railways                       42.4         12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC        Telecommunications              10.4           .0*
843  EA      1972    EADB          Development Finance             8.0           1.0
865  EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                       26.5          11.3
914  EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications             32.5         10.4
1204  EA      1976    EADB          Development Finance            15.0          15.0
Total                                       244.8         52.0
of which has been repaid                   32.7
Total now outstanding                       212.1
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                      212.1
Total undisbursed                            52.0
*   $21,251.53 remains undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTIONz-
(As of March 31, 1976)
There are currently 21 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217 TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzanian Government's acceleration of its
villagization program a total of about 7,200 families have been moved to
villages in the tobacco complexes, bringing the number of project farmers
to 10,000. With these vigorous efforts, it is now likely that the appraisal
target of 15,000 farmers will be reached in 1976.    Strict measures to
enforee minimum tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to
increased tobacco production. However, yields Fer hectare and quality of
leaf have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and coopezative services. Provision of water
supplies and social infrastructure is progressing well.
Credit No. 287 TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems in Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and a
definite improvement in the control over the field activities. The com-
pletion of 956 ha of new planting during 1974/75 brings the total project
planting to 5,086 ha or 61% of the total target area. A further 500 ha is
planned for 1975/76 season. The past lack of technical, administrative
and financial control over the four widely dispersed project areas
reflected in TTA's current financial problems. A special supervislon
mission has been scheduled to examine these problems and propose remedial
measures.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Credit No. 232 TA - Second Livestock Development
Project: $18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness - September 28, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Although improvements to the organization and management involved
in this project were made during 1975, implementation has been extremely
slow and disbursements thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal fore-
cast. Slow implementation is mainly a result of the size and complexity
of the Project and of the delays encounLered in recruiting staff and in
concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and the supply of
heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected to pick
up momentum now that these problems have been resolved.
Credit No. 454 TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The conditions in which the project is operating were radically
changed by the 1974 decision that farmers throughout the district should
move into villages and by relative price changes in the producer prices for
maize and cotton which occurred in 1974 and 1975. In addition, management
problems have slowed project implementation. For the 1975/76 cropping season
the project is focusing nn twenty selected villages and it is hoped that
this will accelerate implementation.
Loan No. 1014 TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consolida-
tion of its activities are proceeding slowly. Recruitment and strengthening
of staff needs to be intensified in order to fully utilize five additional
cashewnut processing factories contained in this project.
Credit No. 508 TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Significant improvements in institutional arrangements were noted
in the most recent supervision mission and the parastatal organizations
involved in this project have become both more active and effective. Agri-
cultural prospects have also improved with better standards of land clearance
and preparation, timing and spacing of planting and use of fertilizers.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
However, implementation of the credit provisions of the project to start
up later this year is likely to be difficult and little has been done
with regard to a number of minor project components (involving feeder
roads, livestock and tsetse clearance). While planning and procurement
of materials are complete construction of the social and regional infra-
structure program has lagged behind schedule. A preparation team was
recently installed in Mwanza to prepare integrated rural development pro-
jects for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions, and the existing and future
information base and supporting activities appear promising.
Credit No. 513 TA and Loan No. 1041 TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate  field development is ahead of schedule with 2,740 acres
of sugar cane planted during 1974/75 (about 500 acres over the target)
while outgrowers planting of 400 acres is about 200 acres behind schedule.
Construction of the new sugar mill, financed by Dutch and Danish loans,
is on schedule and should be completed by July 1976. Procurement of field
machinery and equipment and supporting project activities are progressing
reasonably well. Due to cost escalation of the housing and community
development component some problems have been encountered in initiating
construction of staff housing.
Credit No. 580 TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 28, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key
personnel and the first phase of procuremert.
Credit No. 606 TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This project was declared effective on May 28, 1976. The
initial stages of project implementation are proceeding well. Key
personnel for the project have been recruited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149 TA - Second Education Project: $5.0
million Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
June 19, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Most project schools are finished but the Closing Date was
extended to finalize disbursements. Schools are adequately furnished but
not yet fully equipped. Procurement and installation of the remaining
furniture and equipment is in progress. The project has experienced a
minor overrun of $0.4 million. A completion mission is scheduled for
late 1976.
Credit No. 232 TA - Third Education Project: $3.3
million Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
May 10, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 18 months
to December 31, 1976, to provide ample time for its completion. All civil
works, furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil works
are about 75% complete, but contracts are behind schedule because of material
shortages. Ineffective project management and failure of Government to
appoint a Project Accountant have limited follow-up activities and cor-
rection of deficiencies and may result on further delays. A number of
changes in the programs and management of the institutions involved in this
project are being discussed with'the Government.
Credit No. 371 TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Design work of all project institutions, except for the three
secondary schools eliminated because of cost overruns, will be completed
by the end of 1975. Out of 18 project instituions construction works had
started on eight sites only. All construction work is scheduled to be
completed in the beginning of 1978. The project unit is now working satis-
factorily and a new project coordinator has been appointed by the Govern-
ment. Most recent estimate of project costs came to about US$22 million,
excluding the three secondary schools, a cost overrun of about 15%. While
disbursements are expected to increase substantially it is likely that the
Closing Date will have to be extended until the end of 1978.
Credit No. 607 TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0
million Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
March 23, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Government has begun to implement the Rural Training component
and the Project Unit responsible for the secondary schools is already in
operation assisting in the implementation of previous Bank education projects.



ANNEX II
PAge 7 of 10
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 30, 1976; Closing  Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this loan are proceeding quickly. Nine sub-
projects totalling $7.8 million have been approved for disbursements.
Loan No. 1128 TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date July 1, 1979
The Textile Corporation of Tanzania (TEXCO) has appointed the
project engineers and technical advisors and tenders for major project
components have been received and are being evaluated. TEXCO has also
appointed the consultants to carry out the feasibility study for constructing
a textile plant for producing polyester=cotton blended materials.
Credit No. 601 TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
After some initial delays, necessitating the postponement of the
terminal date of effectiveness, the Tanzanian Investment Bank is now re-
cruiting key project unit staff who will supervise the execttion of this
credit. A great deal of interest has been generated in this project and it
is ant'icipated that it will be declared effective as soon as the head of
the project unit has been recruited.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715 TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 million
Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million Supplementary Loan
No. 712-2 TA of June 24, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - March 31,
1971 and September 26, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
Construction work for this,project is essentially completed.   The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came un stream in



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. Negotiations were recently held
for the second stage Kidatu power project.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265 TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the con-
tract for the Mtwara-Masasi road was signed at nearly three times the
appraised cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million loan from
ADB and use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's Second Highway Pro-
ject (Loan No. 586 TA). The portion of the road now financed by the Bank
is nearing completion. Execution of road betterment works in two agri-
cultural areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily
in one area but is behind schedule in the other. Preinvestment studies for
Kilombero and Kilimanjaro areas have been completed and final reports are
being reviewed.
Credit No. 507 TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is more than one year behind schedule. Tenders for
equipment procurement were opened in October 31, 1975 and orders have now
been placed. The Government has been negotiating with consultants for
assistance in recruiting experts with no result so far. The Bank has been
discussing with the Government how this problem can be resolved as it is
seriously delaying the project. Consultants have submitted the draft final
report of the Trucking Industry Study, being supported under the Credit and
this report may form the basis for a future Bank project.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495 TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for infra-
structure construction at all seven sites have been awarded and are
expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the project,
i.e. training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition studies are progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX   II
Page 9 of 10
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Pailways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corpcoration, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension was lifted on June 1, 1976.     The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 12 to 15 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by 0DM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865_EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority.   Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major items have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA - SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:       United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT          US$ 7 million equivalent
TERMS:          25 years including 5 years of grace and interest at 8-1/2%
per annum
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:    The Project would, over five years (1976/77 to 1980/81),
provide for the planting and maintenance of about 16,000 ha
of forests, for the maintenance of about 11,000 ha of
existing plantations, and for the development of infra-
structure and forest services within the Project area.
Specifically, the Project would provide for the afforest-
ation of a total of 15,750 ha of pulpwood plantations,
surveying of the area to be planted, the establishment of
nurseries, ground preparation, weeding, silvicultural treat-
ment and disease control. In addition, some 330 ha within
the designated sawlog area would be replanted during the
Project; 8,800 ha of existing pulpwood plantations and of
about 2,500 ha of sawlog plantations would be maintained;
some 164 km of primary and secondary roads and 393 km of
tracks would be constructed; staff housing and 20 adminis-
trative and social buildings would be established; and
financing for research, training and studies would be
provided.
COST OF                                                                Foreign
PROJECT:                                   ----- US$ 000 -----         Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total       %
Afforestation
Pulpwood wzorking
circle                   1,672      201      1,873      11
Sawlog working
circle                      74       10         84      12
Access and Plantation
Roads                        166       64        229      28



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Local    Foreign    Total
Project Management
Administration             701        158      859        18
Buildings and Housing      663        114      777        15
Equipment                 112         604      716        84
Research, Trials and
Training                    41        448      489        92
Studies
Aerial Photography          -          38       38       100
Water Study for Pulpmill     7        109      117        94
Escarpment Road Study        7         47       54        87
Sub-total      3,443       1,793    5,236        34
Contingencies
Physical                   189        142      331        43
Price                    2,075        470    2,545        18
Total Project Cost         5,707      2,405    8,112        30
FINANCING                        US$ 000        %
PLAN:
Bank             7,000          86
Government       1,100          14
8,100        100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                  FY      FY      FY      FY      FY       FY
($ millions)                   77       78      79      80      81      82
Annual         .1      1.1      .7     1.2     1.7     2.2
Cumulative     .1      1.2     1.9     3.1     4.8     7.0
PROCUREMENT:    Procurement of equipment and vehicles in orders exceeding
US$80,000 would be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment and vehicle
orders of less than $80,000 would be obtained under Govern-
ment procurement procedures which are satisfactory. All
infrastructure work and afforestation is expected to be
completed by the Forest Division under force account. Due
to the nature of the work and the remoteness of the project
area, it was concluded that these components would not



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
attract either local or international competitive bidding.
Retroactive financing in an amount up to $50,000 is
recommended fcr financing consultant services.
CONSULTANT
SERVICES:       Project includes funds for the employment of two inter-
nationally recruited experts (one for plantations and
the other for road and mechanical engineering) each for
duration of project (five years). Estimated cost is
US$44,000 per man-year and neither of these positions
has been filled.
RATE OF
RETURN:         The overall economic rate of return of the pulp and paper
program is estimated to be 13.5%. For sawlog production
the corresponding estimate is 21.4%.
APPRAISAL
REPORT:         Report No. 1107-TA dated June 18, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
MAP:            A map of Tanzania which identifies the location of the
proposed project is attached.






IBRD 11934
U G A N D A4---LA K E---j; g^ K E N Y A                     T6A N Z A N I A  -  MARCH 1976
32-    lAShircit    ~                   TANZANIA
~--x y    <' N Inos BuKOb2  CXF H NMusr6r  rim      SAO   HILL FORESTRY   PROJECT
1X RWANDA                     Buk' |)JY  E7                   PROJECT LOCATION
|-~-' ~W%   KE   J    auBUND  A G   A         & ;
n z;al                    i?I~  Closed F.rest
p<      ;         ,. ) Y " * A       eNi,_Main RAad.
'Ngaro' Nuieb  1-Mez  ~   6A--.---                           Rathosye
I'v d 0         Cl14flZi en                                     TANZARA HVsUAy-
B E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri,io BoL [dArAM
LI-Lugu, G                                     Olduwdi  IC? -iDia1ietB Bund.ie
c:2 1    Mat a W  s  w  t  _p.1 nYir IJen1 Boundaides
/~~~~~~~~udrJ; 1<L                  mbde u Sh0og  Ag       K L  W
(,\\\H  I  A              6- 4
.panda   ,J \ mu      BoyI  T  U N DOU ROM<  Mp  BA S Any NA
Wo4?da*ndlus/Ndk K                           Ulu I I|~  
Nzego  Kio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARE SLA
Kigoma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kli uos
~~  L..  '  p--      OZAMBIQUE~~~~~~~~ng  40MB
MaTh  ~ ~ ~   0,   po,oin  by  tnt  32' T  )berash
.>   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dn   n






;BRD  I1935
tt  :   R  us_A.4....e:s                 _   _y1                   / >                    2<~~~~/ 
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E ,; o ;A'o 
r      - - -X                      - - - -   - - 4
I-= !  Possible R-ch,ng A-eo
( ) / ,e-g} v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~-i | ~~~~Und-cded A-o
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                     _,5lR aMds
--- --,d.,~ Rood,
------  O,.  R-od, -d T-4c
'N-.,           ------ ~~~~TANZARA Ro,o-6
X                                                   R.,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e -,d St--r
T   $  L   >  K 100676E6S O  4  E  IC  K OC12
:' <,                                                                            TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT



