Report No. 1107-TA                                                                                     y
Appraisal of the Sao Hill Forestry Project
Tanzania
June 18, 1976
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agriculture Projects Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS LI
SDR 1,00      -  Tanzania Shillings (T Sh) 9,66
SDR 1.00      -  US$ 1,20
US$ 1.00      -  Tanzania Shillings (T Sh) 8.05
T Sh 1.00     -  US$ 0.12
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMTA         -  Air Dry Metric Tons per annum
c.i.f.        -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
cm            -  Centimeter
FD            -  Forest Division (of the Ministry
of Natural Resources and Tourism)
f.o.b.        -  Free on board
JP            -  Jaakko Poyry & Co., a firm of
'forestry consultants
m3(r)         -  Solic cubic meter of round wood
m3(s)         -  Solid cubic meter of sawn wood
MAI           -  Mean Annual Increment
NDC           -  National Development Corporation
pH            -  A measure of the degree of acidity
or alkalinity (7 being neutral)
SIDA          -  Swedish International Development
Agency
TANZAM        -  Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA        -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway
M'TPA         - Metric tons per annum
TWICO         -  Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation
u.b.          -  Under bark
4-WD          -  Four wheel drive
GOVERNMENT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/  In October 1975, the three East African Community
currencies were pegged to the value of the Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) of the International Monetary
Fund. An SDR/US dollar conversion rate of 1.2 has
been assumed for purposes of this appraisal, although
the actual rate is floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ... ... .........................                        i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........ 0......  .......              0............................ 
II.    BACKGROUND  ....................               O....................... ..............   2
A.    General  .....................................                             2
B.     Forest  Resources  and  Industries  .... .........                        3
C.     Government  Forest  Services  ..................                          5
III.     PROJECT AREA  ..........................................                                 7
A*    General  .............................                                     7
B.    The  Sao  Hill  Afforestation  Program  ....                 ......        8
IV.     THE PROJECT  ..9........................ .................                              9
A.    General  Description  . .......................  .                         9
B.    Detailed  Features  * ..........................  .                        9
C.     Project  Costs  ......... . ...*.    .......  .                         13
D.     Financing  ...... . .       .........* ........  ............ .         14
E.    Procurement   ................                                          15
F.  Disbursement                                                .............    15
G.  Accounts and Audit  ..............    16
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................                               16
VI.     PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND  PRICES  ................... o.                                17
A.   Yields and Production ........                        .........    17
Bo    Markets  and  Prices               ...        o....... ......*.. .       19
VII.      BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ......o.................o..                              20
A.     Financial  Evaluation            0.........0 ..o.......... ..            20
B.    Economic  Evaluation  .... . o ..... . . . .  * ...... *..%.  .          21
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION....... o..........    23
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Forestry Subsector in Tanzania
Table 1    - Distribution of Area by Planting Years and
Species in the Existing Forest Reserves
Included in the Project
Table 2    - Projected Development Expenditures - Forest Division
2.   Development of Project Infrastructure
Table I    - Summarized Implementation
Schedule of Afforestation and Industrial Programs
Table 2    - Physical Work Schedule
Table 3    - Planting Schedule
Table 4    - Annual Replanting Schedule
Table 5    - Summary of Manpower Requirements
Table 6    - Schedule of Building Requirements
Table 7    - Summary of Building Costs
Table 8    - Equipment and Vehicle Costs
Appendix I - Project Area
3.   Project Cost Estimates
Table 1    - Summary of Project Costs
Table 2    - Summary of Assumed Productivity Coefficient and
Operation Costs
Table 3    - Administration and Overhead Costs
Table 4    - Specific Physical Contingencies
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements and Project Implementation
Schedule
Table 1    - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2    - Project Implementation Schedule
Table 3    - Schedule of Monitoring Indices



- 3 -
5.   Project Organization, Training and Research
Appendix 1 - Draft Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance Specialists
Appendix 2 - Research and Trials
Tables 1-3 - Areas and Schedules of Project Trials
Charts     - Organigram of Forest Division
- Project Organization Chart
6.   Project Studies
Appendix 1 - Draft Terms of Reference for the Water
Availability Study for the Pulp Mill
Table 1    - Estimated Cost of Water Availability
Study for Pulp Mill
Appendix 2 - Draft Terms of Reference for the Mufundi
Escarpment Road Engineering Study
Table 1    - Estimated Cost of Mufindi Escarpment Road Study
7.   Project Yields and Production
Table 1    - Yields and Production - Wood Requirements in
Volume and Area for Sawlogs and Pulpwood and
Area of Plantations
Table 2    - Yields and Production - Wood Availability for
Pulp Mill
8.   Mufundi Pulp and Paper Mill
Table 1    - Pulp and Paper Mill - Financial Rate of Return
Table 2    - Pulp and Paper Mill - Economic Rate of Return
9.   Markets and Prices
Table 1    - Required Annual Planting of Softwood Sawlog
Forests During the Period 1975-80 to Meet the
Softwood Sawlog Demand in the year 2005
10. Government Cash Flow



-4-
11. Economic Evaluation
Table 1    - Cost in the Economic Analysis - Paper and Paperboard
Table 2    - Internal Rate of Return - Paper and Paperboard
Table 3    - Economic Internal Rate of Return - Sawlogs
Table 4    - Foreign Exchange Costs and Import Substitution of
Output of Program
MAPS          Sao Hill Forestry Project - Project Location (IBRD 11934
Sao Hill Forestry Project - Details of Project Area (IBRD 11935)



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        With its difficult balance of payments problems, Tanzani, is giving
high priority to development programs which will increase export earnings and
import savings. Among the latter, Tanzania has over the last three years been
planning the establishment of a pulp and paper industry, the production from
which would substantially meet expected internal consumer demand for paper
and paper board and utilize the country's existing and potential forest re-
sources. The proposed Project would extend existing and potential forest
plantations at Sao Hill in the southern highlands from which most of the pro-
duction would be expected eventually to provide the resource for a pulp and
paper mill in that area.
ii.       The proposed Project would comprise part of an overall plan which
aims at the establishment and maintenance of about 65,000 ha of pine and
eucalyptus plantation. The Project (1976/77 to 1980/81) would provide for
the afforestation of a total of 15,750 ha of pulpwood plantations; the annual
planting program would increase from 1,500 ha in the year 1 to 4,500 ha in
year 5. The Project would include surveying of the area to be planted, the
establishment of nurseries, ground preparation, weeding, silvicultural treat-
ment and disease control. In addition, some 330 ha within the designated
sawlog area would be replanted during the Project following the completion of
clear-felling operations. The Project would also provide for: the main-
tenance of 8,800 ha of existing pulpwood plantations and of 2,500 ha of sawlog
plantations; construction and maintenance of some 164 km of primary and
secondary roads and 393 km of tracks; construction of staff housing and 20
administrative and social buildings; as well as for research and training and
studies.
iii.      The Project would be executed by the Forest Division (FD) of the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Project activities would be
directed by a Project Manager who would be responsible to the Director of
Forestry. He would be assisted by two internationally-recruited specialists,
one a Silviculturalist/Forest Economist and the other a Ro
En L ;g_uP and beyaF Ica ontroilgr.  The tasks  of the Silviculturist/
Forest Economist would include the planning of the planting program, the
review of silvicultural methods and the introduction of more efficient opera-
ting methods, cost-benefit control, and the monitoring of Project indices,
on-the-job training and the review of the labor and staff situation. The
Roads/Mechanical Engineer would be responsible for the construction and
maintenance of roads and firebreaks, the maintenance of vehicles and equipment
and the operation of workshops and stores. In addition of their normal
duties, the two internationally recruited officers would train their counter-
parts and the Project staff in their respective fields of competence and
responsibility.



- ii -
iv.       A Bank loan of US$7.0 million is proposed which could cover the
foreign exchange requirements of the Project (US$2.4 million) and about
80% of local costs (US$4.6 million) over the five year development period.
This would represent 86% of total Project costs of T Sh 65.3 million (WS$8.1
million). Government's contribution of US$1.1 million would represent 4% of
total Project cost. Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$700,000 ^-
cluding contingencies) in orders exceeding US$80,000 would be by intern.-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; orders would
be bulked whenever possible. Orders less than US$80,000 would be obtained
under Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The infra-
structure work and the afforestation would be established by the Forest
Division under force account, as due to the labor intensive nature of the
work and the remoteness of the area it would not be likely to attract either
local or international competitive bidding.
v.         The 16,000 ha of Project pine and eucalyptus plantations would
provide part of the necessary raw material for the successful operation of
the pulp and paper mill to be constructed in the Sao Hill area near Mufindi.
The economic justification of the pulp and papers Project is based on the
entire Sao Hill afforestation program. This overall program comprises the
plantation of a total area of 60,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus; maintenance
of existing pulpwood plantations (some 8,800 ha); logging operations over 850
ha of 15 year-old pines and 280 ha of eucalyptus each year (rising ultimately
to 2,600 ha of pine and 1,200 ha of eucalyptus p.a.); the establishment of a
pulp and paper mill, initially of some 65,000 TPA, and its extension to a
capacity of about 180,000 TPA; and the subsequent processing of the wood in
the envisaged mill. The major quantifiable benefits would arise from the
expected production of paper and paperboard. At full development (after 21
years), the annual value of production is expected to reach T Sh 995 million
(US$123,000 million). It is expected that all of the pulpwood production
from these plantations would be consumed domestically. The economic justi-
fication of the sawwood plantations (330 hectares) is based on a per hec-
tare model.
vi.        The economic internal rate of return is 13.5% based on the entire
program including a mill of 180,000 TPA. In the interim, the economic rate
of the first phase 65,000 TPA mill would be 12.4%. The rate of return for
sawlog production has been estimated at 21.5%. The expected benefits would
be widely distributed among those to be employed directly under the planta-
tion program (who would fall within the lower rural income bracket) and
those employed in related processing industries, as well as among both the
rural and urban users of the final product. The Project would result in
direct additional employment of about 500 man-years over the Project period.
The Project would have various unquantifiable benefits not included in the
analysis such as the prevention of erosion and improvement of soil and water
conservation, as well as benefits from training and research programs and the
upgrading of the rural road system. As the Project is located in a grassy
highland, no indigenous forest would have to be felled to implement the
plantation scheme. If the timber yields were lower than anticipated, a
greater plantation area would be needed to provide the raw material for
the mill; such an extension would be feasible, if it should prove necessary.
In the unlikely event that neither the proposed pulp and paper mill nor any



- iii -
similar type of wood processing plant were built the plantation program could
be stopped and the plantation could be allowed to grow on a 25-year rotation
to produce sawlogs. Sensitivity tests under various assumptions have shown
that the economic internal rate of return is relatively insensitive ' changes
in costs (but would be sensitive to changes in prices). With a 10% increase
in costs the rate of return for pulp and paper would be about 12%; likewise,
a 10% increase in the cost of the sawlogs would reduce the rate of return for
this component from 22% to 20%.
vii.      This would be the first Bank Group financed Project in Tanzania
for forestry. Ten IDA credits totaling US$101.1 million and two IBRD loans
for US$30 million have been approved thus far for nine agricultural and one
rural development projects in Tanzania. They include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock, and one each for tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar,
cashew-nuts and dairy production, as well as a regional development project
in Kigoma. Financing for agricultural training and for feeder road devel-
opment has been also been provided under education and highway projects.
Progress under these projects has been slow, although there has recently
been some improvement; management and staffing have however been a conti-
nuing problem. A US$30 million program loan was also approved in December
1974.
viii.     The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.0 million to the
Government of Tanzania.






TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      With its difficult balance of payments problems, Tanzania is giving
high priority to development programs which will increase export earnings and
import savings. Among the latter, Tanzania has over the last three years been
planning the establishment of a pulp and paper industry, the production from
which would substantially meet expected internal consumer demand for paper
and paper board and utilize the country's existing and potential forest re-
sources. The proposed Project would extend existing and potential forest
plantations at Sao Hill in the southern highlands from which most of the pro-
duction would be expected eventually to provide the resource for a pulp and
paper mill in that area.
1.02      Government has gained considerable experience of establishing for-
est plantations which will help compensate for the fast depleting woodlands.
This depletion is causing concern about the long-term supply of domestic
wood on a national scale (e.g. for fuel, house construction), and the Gov-
ernment together with the Bank is actively exploring ways by which this
problem may be separately addressed. In reviewing the Project, considera-
tion was also given to the possibility of smallholder participation in the
Sao Hill area; while a suitable scheme may be worked out later Government con-
sidered that this should not be included in the Project.
1.03      Government's proposal for industrial forestry development included
a further scheme at Ruvu which it was envisaged might eventually supply a
second pulp mill to provide products for export. Experimental trials in
this low elevation area have however not yet proved successful and consid-
erable losses occurred during the 1974 drought. This component was accord-
ingly excluded from the Project. Government is now reconsidering its for-
estry program for this area.
1.04      This would be the first Bank Group financed Project in Tanzania
for forestry. Ten IDA credits totalling US$101.1 million and two IBRD loans
for US$30 million have been approved so far for nine agricultural and one
rural development projects in Tanzania. These include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock, and one each for tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar,
cashew nuts and dairy production as well as a regional development project
in Kigoma. Financing for agricultural training and for feeder road devel-
opment has also been provided under education and highway projects. Prog-
ress under these projects has been slow, although there has recently been
some improvement; management and staffing have, however, been a continuing
problem. Under the completed agricultural credit project, a need was found
for improved supervision of loan records and input distribution. The first
livestock project (also completed) was reasonably successful, but the second
project is progressing more slowly than anticipated due to delays in prepara-
tion and approval of ranch plans, serious cost overruns in the construction
of slaughter houses, and frequent changes in project management. The tea



- 2 -
project has encountered difficulties mainly due to management problems,
which to a considerable extent have been overcome. In the past recruitment of
growers for both the tea and tobacco projects has been slow, although this
has recently shown substantial improvement. The Geita cotton project expe-
rienced problems due to an acceleration of the villagization program in 1973
and 1974 which necessitated a major redesign of the project and caused sig-
nificant delays. The Kilombero sugar project is proceeding well, although
some delays have occurred in the housing construction program. The cashew-
nut project is now proceeding well, and previous problems with regard to
cost overruns have been resolved. The Kigoma rural development project has
made some progress but is behind schedule. The dairy development project
has only recently become effective. An agricultural and rural development
sector study carried out by the Association in December 1974 reviewed the
opportunities, constraints and strategy for agriculture and rural develop-
ment, and outlined a long term lending program. A US$30 million program
loan was also approved in December 1974.
1.05      This Project was prepared by the Government with the assistance
of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Tanzania in September/October 1975 composed
of Messrs. W. Stolber, S. Draper and N. Brouard (IBRD).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Tanzania has a total area of about 880,000 km . The population of
15.4 million, which is increasing at the rate of about 3% a year, is concen-
trated, with about two-thirds of the population occupying only 10% of the
land. Over 90 percent are dependent on agriculture and 40 percent of GNP
is derived from this sector. Per capita GNP was estimated at US$130 in
1973, but in many rural areas the per capita income does not exceed US$40
per year. The growth rate of the economy was about 5% per annum from 1964
through 1973; actual growth has lagged behind the Second Five-Year Plan
(1969-1974) targets, mainly due to failure of the main agricultural crops
to reach plan projections. The 1973 drought and other factors, including
the accelerated villagization program, resulted in a serious reduction in
agricultural production in 1974, necessitating major imports of food grains
and causing severe balance of payments problems. The recent increase in pe-
troleum prices and world-wide inflation have also had a severe adverse im-
pact on the Tanzanian economy.
2.02      Tanzania aims at reducing inequalities in income distribution
through emphasis on smallholder agriculture and rural development, and on
state control of important industries, services and large-scale agricultural
enterprises. The initiative for planning and implementing many development
tasks has devolved to the regional and district administrations. The third
five year plan for the period 1975-1979 has been delayed, although it should



- 3 -
be ready shortly; it is likely to emphasize development production, particu-
larly in the rural sector, in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced
regional growth and a more equitable income distribution.
2.03      The forestry subsector contributed about 3% of GDP and wood prod-
ucts, including paper, valued at some T Sh 160 million (US$20 million) ac-
counted for about 3% of total imports in 1974. In the same year about T Sh
68 million (US$8.5 million) of the country's exports consisted of timber
and sawlogs. Government stumpage revenues in 1973 from the sale of forest
products amounted to T Sh 7.8 million. Government's total (development and
recurrent) expenditure in 197374 for forestry amounted to T Sh 27 million;
out of this total, a substantial portion of the development expenditure was
financed by various international development agencies, especially SIDA.
This assistance is continuing, and about 95% of the development budget in
1975/76 is being financed by SIDA.
B. Forest Resources and Industries (Annex 1)
2.04      About 50% of the total area (about 88.7 million ha) of Tanzania
is classified as forest land, the greater part of which is open woodland.
There are 540 forest reserves totaling 13 million ha (about 15% of the total
land area and about 30% of the forest area). About 1.6 million ha of the
forest reserves have been gazetted as catchment protection forests. The
natural forests may be divided into the following main categories:
(a) Mountain forests, which are dense, high altitude rain
forests, not extensive in area, but yielding valuable
timber for both the home and export markets, and play-
ing an important protective role in water and soil con-
servation.
(b) Woodlands, which are very extensive in the foothills,
along the coast and in the savanna ("miombo"), and
which yield some valuable timber.
(c) Mangrove forests which occur along parts of the
coast and yield mainly timber for building poles.
Although hardwood forests have provided most of the country's domestic sawn
lumber requirements in the past, Government's present forest policy aims at
the development of these resources for the production of valuable veneers
and plywood which could be exported. The native forests, particularly the
miombo woodlands, have a very low stocking of merchantable timber per hec-
tare and are so widely scattered that prospects for their economic utiliza-
tion and development are poor, except for small quantities of valuable hard-
wood for export and more significantly in meeting the very large domestic
demand for fuelwood.



2.05      There are 42,000 ha of softwood exotic plantations and 6,000 ha of
hardwood plantations, mainly of native species. The plantations cover a very
small area of the country, but in future are expected to supply most of the
timber required by forest industries. The main species planted are conifers
with Pinus patula representing about half and Cupressus lusitanica about a
quarter of the total with the balance of other varieties. Tanzania has ex-
tensive tracts of unutilized and sparsely populated land which are well
suited to the growing of pine or eucalyptus plantations, but in view of
their significantly better wood quality pines are generally preferred for
commercial plantations. The growth rates of pine compare favourably with
international averages, especially those of Pinus patula (see Annex 5, Ap-
pendix 2). Those plantation areas located along the recently built Tazara
have come within relatively easy reach of the country's main consumer
centers and main port of Dar-es-Salaam.
2.06      Total wood consumption, estimated by the Government at 34 million
m in 1973, is expected to rise to 37 million m in 1980 and to about 48 mil-
lion m3 by the year 2000. At present almost 98d of total wood consumption
comprises fuelwood, wood for charcoal burning and poles; by the year 2000
fuelwood consumption is expected to still comprise some 94% of the total.
The demand for industrial wood (mainly sawnwood and paper and paperboard)
is currently about 500,000 m3; this will almost double by 1980 and to reach
about 3 million mi3 in the year 2000.  Specifically, the demand for sawnwood
is expected to rise from 160,000 mi3 in 1970 to 280,000 r3 in 1980 and 730,000
m3 in the year 2000, with softwoods increasingly replacing hardwoods in the
domestic market, while fine hardwoods will be reserved for exports. The con-
sumption of wood-based panels, estimated at 9,000 mi3 in 1970, is expected to
rise to 26,000 mi3 in 1980 and 130,000 m3 by the turn of the century.  The con-
sumption of paper and paperboard, estimated at 27,000 tons in 1973, is esti-
mated to rise to 57,000 tons by 1980 and about 300,000 tons in the year 2000
(Annex 9).
2.07      Tanzania has not yet developed a sizeable forest industry.  In addi-
tion to pit-sawing, 1/ which is still fairly widespread, there are over 150
small and badly-equipped sawmills, about 70% of them registered, producing a
total of approximately 160,000 m (s) per annum. The largest mill output is
about 5,000 mi3(s), and only about 25 mills produce more than 500 m3(s).  The
sawmill presently being built by Tanzania Wood Industry Corporation (TWICO)
at Sao Hill will have an output of some 12,000 m (s); when in operation in
1976, will be by far the country's most importanZ sawmill. In addition to
the sawmills, there are two plywood mills, a particle-board factory and a
fiberboard mill in operation, as well as a few small paper conversion plants.
No pulp and paper mill has yet been constructed, however and, consequently,
the entire demand for paper and paperboard must be imported.
1/   A method of sawing logs into planks or boards by means of a long handsaw
operated manually by two men, usually over a pit.



- 5 -
2.08      Government has proposed the early establishment of a pulp and paper
mill in Tanzania to produce paper for the domestic market. The mill would be
based primarily upon existing and future forest plantations in the Sao Hill
area, and eventually would provide Tanzania with its expected requirements
of cultural and industrial paper and paperboard (except tissue, cylinder
boards, and fluting). Feasibility studies have been carried out over the
past decade on various alternative pulp and paper ventures in Tanzania,
those for the present venture were begun in late 1974 (under a grant from
the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)) by Jaakko Poyry &
Co. of Helsinki. On the basis of a preliminary report, a pulp mill site
has been selected near Mfufindi in the Sao Hill area and is now under review.
Out of several mill configurations Government has selected a mill which at
full capacity would produce 40,000 TPA of unbleached kraft and 25,000 of
bleached printing and writing paper and newsprint. The proposed product
mix would be as follows: 14,000 tons of kraftliner, 26,000 tons of sack
paper, 7,000 tons of newsprint and 18,000 tons of printing and writing paper.
It has been proposed that the mill start operations in 1981, with an expan-
sion some 10 years later to an annual capacity of some 180,000 TPA.
2.09      The proposed Project would constitute the first phase of a planta-
tion program which is expected over three planting phases to produce most of
the wood that will be required for the Sao Hill pulp and paper mill. A total
of 60,000 ha of plantations will be required for this purpose. In addition
2,500 ha of the existing pine plantations in the area are being set aside
to provide sawlogs for one shift of the new TWICO sawmill; in subsequent
phases of the program a further 2,500 ha may be planted and utilized for a
second sawmill shift.
C. Government Forest Services (Annex 5)
2.10      Overall responsibility for formulating forest policy, forest admin-
istration and management rests with the Forest Division (FD) within the Min-
istry of Natural Resources and Tourism. As part of the decentralization
effort in 1972 a number of forestry responsibilities were delegated to the
regions; however, policy, general administration, sectoral planning and na-
tional projects remained the responsibility of FD including the industrial
plantations. As a result, the FD lost part of its best staff to provide ad-
ministrative cadres for the regions and districts. The FD currently employs
some 5,000 people, including some 20 professional foresters, 70 technical
(diploma) foresters, as well as nearly 500 general technical officers and
some 700 field assistants. Although the FD is now understaffed at the tech-
nical level, it is expected that by 1980 sufficient trained staff will be
available from both the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry in Morogoro and
from other local and foreign training institutes. Silvicultural research is
carried out by the FD at the Lushoto station and forest utilization research
at the Moshi center. The FD is also responsible for national park and wild-
life protection, beekeeping and soil and water conservation. Other forest
related programs are being carried out by, among others, TWICO and the NDC;



-6-
TWICO is responsible for the development of wood-using industries in general,
and NDC is in charge of the planning and development of the pulp and paper
industry.
2.11      The Government's forest policy is defined as follows:
(a) to demarcate and reserve in perpetuity, for the benefit
of present and future inhabitants of the country,
sufficient forested land or land capable of afforesta-
tion in order to preserve or improve local climates and
water supplies and provide a sustained yield of forest
produce of all kinds for internal use and also for export;
(b) to manage this forest estate and all forest growth on
public lands so as to obtain the best financial returns
of capital value and the cost of management insofar as
such returns are consistent with the primary aims above;
(c) to undertake and promote research in all branches of
forestry;
(d) to undertake and promote education in all branches of
forestry and to build up by example and teaching, a real
understanding among the people of the country of
the value of forests to them and to their descendants;
(e) to encourage and assist the practice of forestry by
local Government bodies and by private enterprise.
2.12      Over the last few years significant parts of the development budget
of the Forest Division has been financed by SIDA (support which is expected
to continue) while the Government has financed mainly the recurrent budget.
The total financial requirement for the Forestry Five Year Development Plan
(1975-80) is estimated at about T Sh 300 million (about US$37 million), mostly
earmarked for plantations and silviculture. If the TWICO budget is included,
the requirement is estimated at T Sh 500 million (about US$62 million). The
development budget in 1975/76 is about T Sh 35 million (US$4.3 million), and
the recurrent budget in the same year is approximately T Sh 15 million (US$1.9
million). Revenues are collected by the FD but are paid directly into the
Ministry of Finance. Until recently the total revenues of the FD were only
about US$1 million a year, but with the recently increased stumpage rates,
they are expected to expand substantially. Stumpage rates were very substan-
tially increased (some almost trebled) in mid 1975 and thus have moved closer
to the Government's objective of ultimately making the forest plantations
self-suppSrting (Annex 9). The stumpage fee for pine sawlogs is now about
T Sh 49/m , and that for pine pole sizes (equivalent average pulpwood sizes)
is somewhat less, on a per running meter basis.



- 7 -
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      Since 1973, Government assisted by Jaakko Poyry & Co. of Helsinki
has been planning the establishment of a pulp and paper mill at Sao Hill and
has been discussing its proposals with the Bank with a view to possible fi-
nancing. As of March 1976, the proposals envisage a new mill coming on
stream in the early 1980's with a build up of production to 40,000 TPA of
unbleached kraft and 25,000 TPA of bleached printing and writing paper and
newsprint by the mid 1980's. Although its size, scope and timing may be sub-
ject to some change, a mill of this scale is likely to constitute the first
phase development. Government envisages that, in the early 1980's, this
mill would be expanded to produce about 180,000 TPA and would represent the
expected completion of the program at Sao Hill. A mill of this size would
be consistent with the ultimate expected resource availability in the area
and its production would be within the estimated domestic demand forecast
for that time.
3.02      On the basis of a preliminary soil survey of the Project area car-
ried out in 1975, the soils are suitable for plantations. The texture is
generally very similar all over the area and most soils can be clasified as
sandy clay loams. The color of the soils varies from red to yellowish brown.
There is no serious problem of compactness and no iron pans have been found.
The pH varies mostly with depth, but is usually between 5.5 and 6.
3.03      Apart from the nearby villages of John's Corner, James' Corner and
Mufindi (which are all outside the Project area), and the existing (and fu-
ture) forest villages of Sao Hill, there are about 13 Ujamaa villages in the
Sao Hill area; these villages have been left out (average 300 households with
an average of 5 members) from the Project area.l/ Each of the villages has
an area of at least 3,000 ha, which the regional authorities estimate will
suffice for all the agricultural land needs of an expanding population for
the foreseeable future. The forest villages would also include sufficient
land to meet their subsistence needs. Thus, sufficient land would be avail-
able to meet the population's farming needs; but should some areas be found
to be unsuitable for forestation they may eventually be opened to grazing
or cultivation once the surrounding forest plantations are established.
The tea estates in the area also have ample land holdings which are sufficient
for both tea growing and to meet their firewood requirements. Apart from
minor adjustments which may be made in the final allocation of land between
the Project and Ujumaa villages, no substantial changes in Project boundaries
are expected after gazetting.
1/   The actual forest reserves, old and new, would thus be unoccupied and
unencumbered by land claims.



- 8 -
3.04      The labor intensive afforestation program now planned will necessi-
tate a sizeable number of workers.  For the Project an estimated 500 addition-
al staff and workers are required. About 200 people would be recruited from
outside the Project area, but the bulk of the labor force would be mobilized
from within the area.
B. The Sao Hill Afforestation Program
3.05      The Project would be part of the curent Government afforestation
program which is designed to develop a total of 65,000 ha of mainly pine
plantations in the Sao Hill area. By 1975 some 10,000 ha had already been
established, and another 1,500 ha were scheduled for planting during the
1975/76 season. (Annex 1, Table 1 gives the distribution of pre-Project
plantations by age and by species.) Some 2,500 ha of the oldest plantations
have been set aside for sawlog production at the new Sao Hill sawmill, and a
further 2,500 ha might be planted at a later stage to enable the doubling of
sawlog production.  Under the Project about 16,000 ha of new pulpwood planta-
tions would be planted and maintained, and some 11,000 ha of existing planta-
tions would be maintained. The gazetting of sufficient land (not less than
60,000 ha gross) made to carry out the scheduled Project plantations has been
a condition of loan negotiations (Annex 2, Appendix 1).
3.06      The main species (which has been used successfully at Sao Hill in
the past) which would be proposed for Project planting would be Pinus patula.
Other species would include Pinus elliottii and possibly some P. kesiya and
P. taeda. Eucalyptus grandis/saligna would also be planted to supplement
pine wood to produce the desired pulpwood mix. The exact ratio would be
determined when the mill requirements are known, it is likely to be of the
order of 3-4 to 1. The expected pine pulpwood rotation would be 15 years and
that of eucalyptus about 8  iears.  For the first ten or so years small amounts
of wattle wood (30,000 m p.a.) would be brought in from outside the area
to ensure the availability of sufficient wood. The FD has acquired considerable
experience in pine plantation techniques at Sao Hill and results achieved
todate have generally been good. However, some techniques will be improved
over the coming years. Logging within the sawlog area (initially 2,500 ha)
would start in 1976 to meet the needs of the new sawmill.
3.07      It is expected that the plantations when fully established would
provide the main source of raw material (cellulose) for a pulp and paper
mill which would produce 40,000 TPA of unbleached kraft and 25,000 TPA of
bleached printing and writing paper and newsprint in the early 1980's (para
2.08), and which would later be expanded to allow a total output of 180,000
TPA by the early 1990's.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would comprise part of the Government afforestation
program now being carried out in the Sao Hill area which aims at the estab-
lishment and maintenance of about 65,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus planta-
tion. The Project would over five years (1976/77 to 1980/81) provide for
the planting and maintenance of about 16,000 ha of this total area, for the
maintenance of some 11,000 ha of existing plantations, as well as for the
development of infrastructure and forest services within the Project area.
The Forest Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism would
execute the Project and would have overall responsibility for Project admin-
istration. Specifically the Project would include:
(a) establishment of 15,750 ha of new pulpwood plantations
including surveys, the establishment of nurseries, land
preparation, and fire control and firebreak maintenance;
(b) maintenance of 8,800 ha of existing pulpwood plantations
and of 2,500 ha of sawlog plantations;
(c)  construction of some 164 km of primary and secondary
roads and 393 km of tracks and maintenance of some
2,400 km of forest roads;
(d) construction of staff housing and 20 administrative and
social buildings; and
(e) research, training and studies.
B. Detailed Feastures (Annex 2)
Afforestation
4.02      The Project would provide for the afforestation of a total of
15,750 ha of pulpwood plantations over a 5-year period; the annual plant-
ing program would build from 1,500 ha in year I to 4,500 ha in year 5.
The program would include surveying the area to be planted, establishment
of nurseries, ground preparation, planting and replacing failures, weeding,
silvicultural treatment and disease control. In addition, some 330 ha within
the designated sawlog area (para 3.05) would be replanted during the Project
following the completion of clear-felling operations.
4.03      Surveying.  Good maps of the forest reserves in the Sao Hill area,
including the new extension areas, are available.  A general survey for the



- 10 -
gazetting of the total area to be planted would be completed before negotia-
tions (para 3.05). Detailed surveys of all plantable areas, including soil
surveys, would be undertaken during the Project period by a special survey
section; agreement was reached to this effect. The Forest Division has
prepared a study on the socio-economic impact of the Project on villages in
the surrounding areas. The study indicates that the Project will in no way
or at any time be impaired by the action of villagers. Agreement was reached
to the effect that there would be encroachment or interference in the planta-
tion area.
4.04      Nurseries.  On the basis of the 2,000 seedlings per hectare which
would be required by the Project, total nursery production requirements
would reach 9 million plants by the fifth year. Two nurseries would be de-
veloped to meet this demand. The existing nursery at Sao Hill would produce
plants for the balance of Sao Hill forest reserve, and the western and low-
elevation trials extension areas, while a second nursery would be created to
serve mostly the northern and eastern extension areas. The main species
would continue to be Pinus patula, and seed of good local strains readily
available. Seed of vigorous strains of Pinus elliottii is also available,
but seed of good strains of Pinus kesiya would have to be imported (from
Zambia, Malawi or Madagascar). No problem is foreseen with the procurement
of good Eucalyptus grandis/saligna seed. Polythene tubes would be used for
the transplanting of nursery stock and provision would be made for adequate
watering facilities, for the standard application of fertilizers, and for
suitable transport of planting stock.
4.05      Ground Preparation.  The preliminary soil survey indicates that
there seems to be very little difference in soils all over the Project area.
Only deep and relatively flat and rock free areas would be planted. None of
the areas earmarked for planting during the Project carries any tree crop
as such, and therefore no special land clearing would be required. However,
it has been assumed that some light bush clearing would be required over 10%
of the planting area. The method of soil preparation would be the tradi-
tional one used at Sao Hill, namely strip ploughing. Fertilization is not
considered necessary (it would actually encourage weed growth and necessi-
tate more weedings), but trials would be carried out during the Project to
confirm this.
4.06      Planting, Weeding, Silvicultural Treatment and Disease Control.
Planting would be done by hand during the early part of the rainy season,
which extends from December to March. Apart from areas under eucalyptus,
about 80% of the area would be planted with Pinus patula and the remainder
with either Pinus elliottii or eventually Pinus kesiya.  With better planting
stock (potted) and methods, the failure rate should not exceed 10%. Replace-
ment of failures would take place as soon as possible, but in no case later
than the next planting season. Weeds are not a severe problem at Sao Hill,
but as they compete with the plants for moisture they must be kept under
control. Provision has therefore been made for both mechanical and hand



- 11 -
weeding; this weeding would take place during the first two years only.
Pruning and thinning would only be done within the small sawlog working
circle at such ages provided the operation is economically justified.
Pruning would be done in the pulpwood working circle only as a fire protection
measure. Regular inspections would be made to identify any signs of insect or
fungal attacks and, if necessary, appropriate control action would be taken.
4.07      Fire Protection.  A comprehensive system of fire prevention and
control would be set up throughout the Project area. Primary firebreaks
40 m wide would be constructed at a density of 7 m/ha around blocks not
exceeding 1,000 ha in area. Secondary firebreaks 20 m wide would be con-
structed at a density of 23 m/ha along all primary and secondary roads and
half the tracks. Cleared strips (3 m wide) would be ploughed along the edge
of firebreaks -- on both sides for the primary breaks and on one side only
for the others. The unploughed portions of both types of firebreaks would
be control-burnt annually.
4.08      During the 4 months of high fire hazard (July to October), look
out posts and towers (one for every 6,000-8,000 ha of plantations) would be
manned full-time and fire-fighting crews would be on stand-by when weather
conditions warrant it; the crews would be employed on average approximately
35 days a year. Provision would be made for vehicles and fire-fighting tools
and equipment.
Road Construction and Maintenance
4.09      Three types of roads would be built and maintained in the upland
Project area; primary access roads (8 m wide, at a density of 3 m/ha), sec-
ondary access roads (7 m wide; 7 m/ha) and tracks (4 m wide; 25 m/ha); the
overall road density would be 35 m/ha. The primary and secondary access
roads would eventually, in subsequent phases, be upgraded into two lane and
one lane all-weather roads respectively when logging operations start; the
tracks would only be temporary dry season roads. In addition, a primary
access road would be built (and partly upgraded) to link the new forest vil-
lage and nursery on the Little Ruaha river with the existing headquarters
and nursery; a bridge would also be built over the river. Culverts would
be built at an average density of 6/km and bridges at a density of one bridge
for every 3-6 km of primary and secondary roads, depending on the terrain.
Gravelling would be used over 30% of primary and secondary roads. During
the Project it is estimated that 48.5 km of primary roads, 115.5 km of sec-
ondary roads and 392.5 km of tracks would be built. In addition to these,
all the existing roads within the Project area would be maintained. No
provision is made for road construction in the low extension areas during
the Project period.
Project Management
4.10      Provision would be made for the employment of a Project Manager,
two internationally recruited specialists (one for plantations and the other
for road and mechanical engineering), a Financial Controller, technical,
clerical and financial supporting staff, as well as for health personnel,



- 12 -
drivers and messengers. As the two internationally recruited officers would
provide significant in-service training. Provision would also be made for
administrative costs and the running costs of Project vehicles during the 5
year development period.
4.11      Buildings and Housing.  Existing buildings in the Sao Hill area
are generally substandard. The following additional administrative buildings
would be constructed: two new Project forest stations, a divisional office
with stores and workshop/garage, 2 forest station offices with garages and
stores, 3 dispensaries, 3 cooperative stores, 2 schools, 3 village halls,
1 nursery office and 2 fire look-out towers. New housing would be provided
for 3 senior staff members, 40 technical officers and artisans, and 170 la-
borers; the balance out of a total estimated labor force of 800 would come
from neighboring villages. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Government would adhere to the agreed housing standards and to the
agreed estimates. If cost estimates prove to be insufficient for the hous-
ing standards, the matter would be reviewed with the Bank.
4.12      Equipment and Vehicles.  The Project would require investment in
equipment for afforestation (ground preparation, transport of labor, soil,
materials and plants, and fire control), road construction and maintenance,
construction of buildings and workshop/garages, and administration (mainly
vehicles). This equipment would include graders, tractors, various trucks
and trailers, pick-ups, a water tanker, pumps, ploughs, rotary slashers,
disc harrows, telephone installations, wireless sets, and field telephones.
Provision would also be made for tools, office and workshop equipment, in-
cluding an adequate supply of essential spare parts. The Project workshop
would be responsible for the repair and maintenance of Project vehicles and
equipment.
Research, Trials and Training (Annex 5)
4.13      Forest research in the Project area would be carried out by the
FD under the direct supervision of the Project Manager. Research and trials
for the main species, Pinus patula, would concentrate on species and proven-
ance trials at high elevations (mainly to try and identify species which
would give better yields than Pinus elliottii), on the improvement of estab-
lishment and cultural techniques, and on fertilizer trials. At low eleva-
tions provision would be made for small-scale species and provenance trials
in order to determine the species, both of pine and eucalyptus, best suited
to the site, and for pilot plantations with the best identified species.
The two specialist officers (para 4.10) would provide in-service training
of Project staff in methods of establishment of large-scale plantations,
in forest management and in forest engineering. In view of the extensive
effort by Government on training (Annex 5, para 5) no other training is
needed.



- 13 -
Prolect Studies (Annex 6)
4.14      The Project would include provision for a pulpmill water study, a
road engineering study and aerial photography of the Project area. Experts
would be recruited to investigate and report on water availability and the
most economic solution to effluent disposal for both the 65,000 TPA and the
ultimate mill of about 180,000 TPA at the provisionally selected site.
Provision would also be made for experts to carry out an engineering study of
the best alignment of a road down the escarpment connecting the Sao Hill area
with the site selected for the proposed pulp mill; the experts would also
prepare preliminary engineering plans and cost estimates. Terms of reference
of these studies (Annex 6, Appendix 1 and 2) and selection of these experts
would be agreed with the Bank and agreement was reached to that effect.
Aerial photographs of the total planted area and areas selected for second
phase plantations would be carried out in the fourth year so as to allow
checking of plantation boundaries with field data and to permit detailed
planning of future plantation layout.
C.  Po4ject Costs (Annex 3)
4.15      Total Project cost is estimated at T Sh 65.3 million (US$8.1
million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$2.4 million.
The estimated costs are summarized below:



- 14 -
Foreign
-----T Sh '000 ------  ----- US$ '0o0   -----   Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total         %
Afforestation
(incl. fire protection)
Pulpwood Working Circle   13,458   1,619  15,077  1,672         201   1,873      11
Sawlog Working Circle          595      78      673      74      10       84     12
Access and Plantation
Roads                        1,333     513   1,846    166        64      229     28
Project Management
Administration               5,642   1,270   6,912    701       158      859      18
Buildings and Housing       5,341      919   6,260    663       114      777     15
Equipment                      901   4,862   5,763    112       604      716     84
Research, Trials and
Training                       333   3,605   3,938       41     448      489      92
Studies
Aerial Photography             -       309      309      -       38       38    100
Water Study for Pulp Mill       59     880      939       7     109      117      94
Escarpment Road Study           56     376      432       7      47       54      87
Base line cost         27,718  14,431  42,149  3,443   1,793   5,236         34
Contingencies
Physical                     1,524   1,142   2,666    189       142      331      43
Price                       16,702   3,786  20,488  2,075       470   2,545       18
Total Project Cost           45,944  19,359  65,303  5,707   2,405   8,112         30
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in March 1976.  The Project
would be exempt from sales taxes and custom duties, and other taxes are in-
significant. A physical contingency of 10% on equipment, housing, buildings
and service road construction has been included, with additional small provi-
sions for fire, pest and disease control and soil deficiency in the extension
areas (Annex 3, Table 4). Price contingencies have been included for foreign
costs in accordance with current estimates while local costs are adjusted to
local conditions. Price escalations are equivalent to 49% of baseline cost.
D. Financing
4.16      The financing of Project cost would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:



- 15 -
US$ '000              %
Bank                   7,000               86
Government             1,100               14
8,100              100
The proposed Bank loan of US$7 million would be for a period of 25 years in-
cluding a five year grace period. This would finance 86% of total Project
cost, or all the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$2.40 million)
and about 80% of local costs (US$4.60 million). Government's contribution
would total US$1.10 million. The Project would provide up to US$25,000
in retroactive financing to cover Project expenditures for the salary and
administrative costs of the silviculturist from June 1, 1976 to permit an
early start of the Project.
E. Procurement
4.17      Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$700,000 excluding con-
tingencies) in orders exceeding US$80,000 would be by international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; orders would be bulked
whenever possible. Orders less than US$80,000 would be obtained under Gov-
ernment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. The infrastructure
work and the afforestation probably would be established by the Forest Divi-
sion under force account, as due to the labor intensive nature of the work and
the remoteness of the area it would not attract either local or international
competitive bidding. Agreement was reached to the effect that that the
above procurement procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursement (Annex 4)
4.18      The Bank loan would finance 100% of the cif cost of imported equip-
ment and vehicles, 100% of the fees and expenses of the internationally re-
cruited personnel, 90% of studies and technical assistance, and 70% of other
expenditure (plantation establishment, forest roads, and Project management).
Disbursement for expenditures in respect of items procured through interna-
tional or local competitive bidding and for studies and technical assistance
would be subject to Bank standard disbursement procedures requiring full
documentation. Operating costs and expenditure by force account would be
approved by the Project Manager and by the Ministry of Finance, and the



- 16 -
documentation for these would not be submitted, but would be retained by the
borrower for review during Project supervision. Any funds remaining in the
loan account upon completion of the Project would be available for realloca-
tion at the discretion of the Bank.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.19      Agreement was reached to the effect that the Forestry Division would
set up and maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations,
resources and expenditure, and that it would keep separate accounts for the
Project. Project accounts would be prepared by the Financial Controller (para.
5.02). Agreement was also reached to the effect that Project accounts would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that
these audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be forwarded
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (Annex 5)
5.01      The Project would be executed by the Forest Division (FD) of the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Project activities would be direc-
ted by a Project Manager with headquarters at Sao Hill, who would be responsi-
ble to the Director of Forestry. He would be assisted by two internationally
recruited specialists, one a Silviculturist/Forest Economist and the other
a Roads/Mechanical Engineer, and by a Financial Controller, all stationed at
Sao Hill headquarters during the Project period. The tasks of the Silvicul-
turist/Forest Economist would include the planning of the planting program,
the review of silvicultural methods and the introduction of more efficient
operating methods, cost-benefit control, and the monitoring of Project in-
dices, on-the-job training and the review of the labor and staff situation.
He would also keep close contact with the Government agency in charge of the
socio-economic study. The Roads/Mechanical Engineer would be responsible for
the construction and maintenance of roads and firebreaks, the maintenance of
vehicles and equipment and the operation of workshops and stores; he would
be assisted by a M4echanical Assistant to be trained as a counterpart. In
addition to their normal duties, the two internationally recruited officers
would train their counterparts and the Project staff in their respective
fields of competence and responsibility. The terms of reference of the two
internationally recruited specialists are given in Annex 5, Appendix 1.
5.02      The Project area now has one main forest station at Sao Hill,
and a second main station would be set up in the upland extension areas.
Each main station would be subdivided into two substations, which would
eventually have plantation areas of some 10,000 ha each. In addition,
there would be a Surveys, Planning and Research Section under the Silvi-
culturist, a Roads/Workshop Section under the Engineer, and a Finance Sec-
tion under the Financial Controller (who would be directly responsible to
the Project Manager for all Project accounts, cost control and procurement).



- 17 -
5.03      The Manager responsible for this year's plantation program (who
was appointed recently) would remain in post as the Project Manager. Agree-
ment was reached to the effect that the appointment of the Project Manager,
the Financial Controller and the two internationally recruited specialists
would be made in consultation with the Bank as would the appointment of any
replacements for these staff members during the Project period. The appoint-
ment of the Project Manager and the silviculturist/forest economist would be a
condition of loan effectiveness, and the Financial Controller and the roads/
mechanical engineer would be employed by November 15, 1976. Agreement was also
reached to the effect that Government would not transfer key local staff under
the Project to other Government employment without adequate replacement.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production (Annex 7)
6.01      The Project plantations would, when fully established, provide the
main source of raw materials for the proposed pulp and paper mill. They would
thus comprise an integral part of the Government's long term plantation program
which is intended to establish a total of some 65,000 ha of plantations in the
Sao Hill area by the early 1990's. By the start of Project implementation,
some 11,360 ha of pine would have already been planted in the Sao Hill reserve
including 1,500 ha planted during the 1975-76 season. Under this Project
15,750 ha (14,250 ha of pine and 1,500 of eucalyptus) would be planted, and
during the next phase of the planting program (1981-86) an additional 20,000
ha is envisaged to be planted (comprising 12,500 ha of pine and 5,000 ha of
eucalyptus plus 2,500 ha of pine sawlogs). By 1991 a total of 65,000 ha would
have been established, which would be divided into a Sawlog Working Circle
(5,000 ha) and a Pulpwood Working Circle (60,000 ha for an envisaged 180,000
PTA mill of which 48,000 ha under pine and 12,000 ha under eucalyptus).
6.02      The 60,000 ha required to support a 180,000 TPA mill has been esti-
mited using a conservative assumption of a weighted annual growth rave of 15
m /ha/year for pine and eucalyptus and 3a pulpwood requirement of 5 m  per ton
of pulp. A higher growth rate of 18 m /ha/year for eucalyptus (assumed i
the Project yield calculation) and an average wood requirement of 4.34 m
per ton of pulp (used by Jaakko Poyry & Co.), if realized, would reduce the
area needed for pulpwood plantations to some 52,000 ha (42,000 ha of pine and
10,000 ha of eucalyptus). The total area required will be finally determined
both by the rates of growth and pulpwood requirements, and by the the actual
product mix of the pulpmill. Any adjustments in the final areas will be ef-
fected in subsequent phases of the planting program.
Sawlog Production
6.03      At the start of the Project 2,500 ha of the oldest stands at Sao
Hill would be set aside for a Sawlog Working Circle to feed the new TWICO
sawmill on a one-shift basis from 1976.  lhen fully operational (around
1978), the sawmill would require 30,000 m of logs annually for one shift;



- 18 -
this Iould represent an annual cut of 100 ha, assuming an average yield of
300 m /ha (most of the stands being over 20 years old). If it is planned
to introduce a second mill shift in the next few years the additional wood
requirement of 30,000 m p.a. could not be met by the Sao Hill plantations
without seriously reducing the pulp mill resources and, accordingly, the
additional wood supply for the sawmill would have to come from the Mbeya
pine plantations (some 250 km away) for one entire sawlog rotation of 25
years; after this period, the expanded Sawlog Working Circle at Sao Hill
(5,000 ha) would be able to meet this wood requirement. In due course it
would be the intention that more than 2,500 ha of sawlog plantations would
be used for the TWICO sawmill from the Sao Hill area.
Pulpwood Production (Annex 8)
6.04      Assuming the 65,000 TPA pulpmill becomes fully Sperational (prob-
ably around 1187) it will require approximately 280,000 m of wood annually,
some 30,000 m of which would be wattle purchased annually for a few years
from the Njombe estates 3(some 100 km) to meet a temporary shortfall, and
the remaining 250,000 m  rould be produced from Project plantations.  It
is expected that 20,000 m  of this Iood would come from pine thinnings and3
from sawmill residues and 230,000 m from pulpwood clearfelling (190,000 m
of pine and 40,000 m of eucalyptus). This would entail the clearfelling
of 845 ha of pine annually, assuming a rotation age of 15 years and a mean
annual increment under bark of 15 m /ha, and the cutting of 280 ha of eu-
calyptuI under a coppice rotation of 8 years and a mean annual increment
of 18 m /ha using the Jaakko Poyry conversion factor.
6.05      Assuming the extended pulp and paper mill came on stream in about
1993 and reached maximum production of some 180,000 TPA two years later,
the total wood volume requirement of the mill froi 1995 onwards would be
780,000 m , using the conversion figure of 4.34 m of wood per ton of pulp.
If 175,000 m  of this total were eucalyptus and 20,000 m  pine sawmill res-
ijues and thinnings, the pine volume from clearfeiling would only be 515,000
m ; this is equivalent to 2,600 ha yielding 225 m per ha (MAI of 15 m /ha
and a rotation of 15 ye rs).  The eucalyptus clearcut area would be about
1,200 ha yielding 144 m /ha (MAI of 18 m /ha and a coppice rotation of 8
years).
6.06      The proposed planting program of 48,000 ha of pine and 12,000 ha
of eucalyptus may have to be revised according to the product mix of the
mill and the input conversion ratio (para 6.02). This adjustment could be
made during the third phase of the program (1986-1991).



- 19 -
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 9)
Markets
6.07      A recent survey of the wood demand and supply situation in Tanzania
carried out by the Forest Division indicates a steady growth in domestic de-
mand for paper and paperboard from about 27,600 metric tons in 1973 to 137,000
tons in 1990 and to nearly 300,000 tons in the year 2000. Industrial paper
and paperboard account for over 60% of current total consumption, and this
pattern of consumption is expected to continue; by the year 2000 it is esti-
mated that industrial paper and paperboard consumption will exceed 200,000
tons a year. Newsprint and other printing and writing paper account for the
balance of total paper consumption.
6.08      At present the total requirement for paper and paperboard are im-
ported. In 1973 net imports of paper and paperboard reached T Sh 60 million,
as compared to T Sh 13 million in 1962. The foreign exchange outflow for
paper and paper products, including printed matter, amounted to about T Sh 80
million (US$10 million) in 1973. Unless steps are taken to establish a local
pulp and paper industry, the cost of imported paper and paperboard products is
likely to rise to an estimated US$18 million by 1980 and could exceed US$90
million by the year 2000. If the growth rates of consumption would be lower
than expected the start-up of the mill could be delayed and/or the capacity
of the paper mill could be scaled down on a revised configuration.
6.09      However, it is envisaged that at full production, around 1987 1/,
the Mufindi pulp and paper mill would produce 65,000 TPA. Given the pro-
jected domestic demand (para 6.07), it is therefore expected that all of the
proposed Project's pulpwood production would be consumed domestically, and
furthermore that the entire production of a possible extension of the mill
to around 180,000 TPA (para 6.05) would also be absorbed by the local
market.
6.10      The present consumption of sawnwood comprises about 35% softwoods
and 65% hardwoods.3 It is estimated that the total annual sawlog demand in
1970 was 406,000 5 (r). Saw wood consumption is pSojected to increase to
about 1 million m (r) by 1990 and to 1.5 million m (r) by 2000. Although
the country is presently self sufficient in sawnwood, the policy of the
Government aims at changing this domestic consumption pattern into a higher
use of cheap softwoods, while most of the more valuable hardwoods would be
reserved for export. Although no detailed demand estimates for TWICO's
sawmill output at Sao Hill have so fai been made, the Government assumes
that the output of the mill (12,000 m (s) p.a. per shift) would be utilized
1/   About 95% capacity would be reached by 1984.  The remaining 5% of capac-
ity (mainly for printing and writing) would be realized by 1987.



- 20 -
by Government in Dodoma.  There also exists a potential f sr exports of sawn
softwoods to Zambia which currently imports some 50,000 m (s) a year. Exist-
ing plantations at Sao Hill are geographically well placed to supply the
Zambian market and completion of Tazara will improve the relative com-
petitiveness of the area.
Prices
6.11      Paper and paperboard prices in Tanzania are higher than world mar-
ket prices, reflecting the distance of the country from major world trading
and consumption centers and the penalty for small orders for many product
types which countries with a low consumption are generally called upon to
pay. World market prices over the last two decades have been characterized
by relatively stagnant real prices. The early 1970's were characterized by
a strong upsurge in prices and a widespread shortage of paper and board.
However, the recent worldwide recession has changed the market situation
and paper prices have basically remained at the 1974 level (i.e. they have
fallen in real terms). However, it is expected that this is a temporary
weakness of the market and that prices will again stabilize. The Project's
economic evaluation is based on the price and cost levels as of March 1976.
The long term paper and paperboard mill net price weighted according to the
expected output of the mill has been calculated at US$572 per metric ton for
the 65,000 ton mill and US$554 for the 180,000 ton mill. These prices are
based on cif prices per metric ton of US$375 for kraftliner, US$480 for
sackpaper, US$350 for newsprint, and US$730 for printing and writing paper.
Present cif prices are somewhat below the above levels. However, a recent
FAO market forecast indicates that if the present recession does not worsen,
there will be an accurate shortage of paper by as early as 1978.
6.12      Stumpage rates vary according to the species.  Stumpage rates for
plantation Sawlogs have been increased consideraMly since July 1975 from
T Sh 17.5/m  for plantations logs to T Sh 49.4/m . However, stumpage rates
at present are still not high enough to enable the industrial forest planta-
tions to be self-supporting financially (para 7.02 and Annex 9).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTFICATION
A.  Financial Evaluation
7.01      The overall planting program has been based on the requirements
of a 180,000 ton pulp and paper mill, and the Project economic evaluation
is based on this target. Initially the industrial Project would be based on
a proposal for a 65,000 ton mill which would be in operation until 1993, and
it is this smaller mill which has been tested on a financial as well as on
an economic basis. For this mill the financial rate of return at March 1976
prices would be about 11% over a 25-year period. This calculation is based
on an assumed weighted mill net price of US$572 per metric ton for paper



- 21 -
and on calculated stumpage rates of T Sh 60/mr  for pine,3T Sh 32/mr  for
eucalyptus, T Sh 45/m  for pine thinnings, and T Sh 30/mr  for wattle.
These stumpage rates compa e with T Sh 49.4/m  for sawlogs (pine) and an
average of about T Sh 35/m for plantation poles now actually charged by
Government. In order to make these plantations financially self-supporting,
it would be necessary to raise the stumpage rates to these assumed levels
by 1981 in real terms. Agreement was reached to that effect that Government
would introduce stumpage rates by January 1, 1985, for eucalyptus and January
1, 1992, for pine, which would enable the industrial forest plantations to
become self-supporting financially. The calculation would be based on plan-
tation cost at 1985 and 1992 prices respectively, applying a discount factor
which would be a reasonable measure of the opportunity cost of capital
in Tanzania.
7.02      As the amount and sources of the additional financing needed for
the later phases of the afforestation program and the pulp and paper mill
have not as yet been established, the impact of the Project on Government's
cash flow has been confined to the Project cost and stumpage revenue only.
Assumed stumpage rates have been used to calculate the revenue at time of
harvesting (about 15 years after planting for pine and about 8 years for
eucalyptus). Taxes and duties are negligible and have not been included,
and stumpage revenues from pre-Project plantations which would be main-
tained under the Project have also been excluded. On these assumptions,
total Project costs in real terms would be recovered within 20 years at an
interest rate of 10% (Annex 10).
B. Economic Evaluation (Annex 11)
7.03      The 16,000 hectares of Project pine and eucalyptus plantations
would provide part of the necessary raw material for the operation of the
pulp and paper mill proposed to be constructed in the Sao Hill area. The
economic justification of the Project is based on the entire Sao Hill affor-
estation and industrial program. This overall program comprises the planta-
tion of a total area of 60,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus; maintenance of
existing pulpwood plantations (some 8,800 ha); logging operations over 850
ha of 15 year-old pines and 280 ha of eucalyptus each year (rising ultimately
to 2,600 ha of pine and 1,200 ha of eucalyptus p.a.); the establishment of a
65,000 TPA pulp and paper mill and its extension to a capacity of 180,000 TPA;
and the subsequent processing of the wood in the envisaged mill. As outlined
in Table 1 of Annex 11 the investment and operating cost of the pulpmill are
by far the most important cost item of the program followed by the logging
and transport costs whilst the afforestion costs are small by comparison.
The major quantifiable benefits would arise from the expected production of
paper and paperboard. At full development (after 21 years), the annual value
of production is expected to reach T Sh 995 million (US$123 million) in constant
prices.



- 22 -
7.04      The 330 hectares of sawlog plantations to be planted (replanted)
under the Project have been tested on a per hectare model basis. The main-
tenance cost of 2,500 ha of existing sawlog plantations is negligible.
7.05      The economic internal rate of return of the pulp and paper pro-
gram (based on a 180,000 ton mill) is estimated to be 13.5% over 37 years.
The economic rate of return of the pulp and paper program (based on a 65,000
ton mill) is estimated to be 12.4% over 25 years (Annex 8, Table 2). The
rate of return for sawlog production has been estimated at 21.5% over 26
years. The average weighted economic rate of return on these components
(pulp and sawmill circle) is about 13.5%. In calculating the economic rate
of return of pulpwood and sawlog production, import parity prices for paper
and sawnwood have been used. Foreign exchange costs and benefits have been
shadow priced at a rate of T Sh 10 per US$1.00 1/ to reflect more accurately
the value of foreign exchange to Tanzania. Unskilled labor was shadow priced
by a factor of 0.45 of the monetary wage rate in view of the significant un-
deremployment in the area. The social rate of return has not been calculated
but should be close to the economic rate of return as the Project is mainly
efficiency rather than redistribution oriented.
7.06      The expected benefits would be distributed among those to be em-
ployed directly in the plantation program (who would fall within the lower
rural income bracket) and those employed in related processing industries.
The Project would result in direct additional employment of about 500 man-
years. While direct employment in plantation-related activity would in-
crease only slightly in the second phase and then diminish slightly in the
third phase, these changes would be more than offset by new employment oppor-
tunities in the logging and industrial operations. The foreign exchange sav-
ings stemming from the envisaged program would be a major benefit accruing
to the country. The Project would have various unquantifiable benefits not
included in the analysis such as the prevention of erosion and improvement
of soil and water conservation, as well as some benefits from training and
research programs and the upgrading of the rural road system. As the Proj-
ect is located in a grassy highland, no indigenous forest would have to be
felled to implement the plantation scheme. The Project is not expected
to have any tangible negative effects on the ecosystem of the area to be
planted.
7.07      The principal risk facing the Project would be that the envisaged
pulp and paper mill would not be built at any time. In this unlikely event,
the plantation program could be scaled down and ultimately stopped after
five years and the plantation would be allowed to grow to a 25-year rota-
tion to produce sawlogs. Additional sawmills would have to be built to pro-
duce sawnwood as the TWICO sawmill in Sao Hill would be too small to process
the then existing total wood supply. The production of such sawmills would
substantially be devoted to meet local market demand with any balance for
export. Specific risks of the program as envisaged would result from a
1/   Subsequent to above calculations being made, increased to T Sh 11 per
US$1. This would slightly improve the economic rate of return.



- 23 -
drop in world market paper prices, and increasing investment and mill oper-
ating costs. Options to reduce those risks stemming from the uncertain-
ties of the pulp and paper market could be to delay the start up of the
mill operation, scale down the capacity and/or change the output mix of
the paper mill.
7.08      Sensitivity tests under various assumptions have shown that the
economic internal rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in
costs, but would be sensitive to changes in prices. With a 10% increase
in costs the rate of return for pulp and paper would be about 12.0%, and
with a 10% increase in benefits the rate of return would be about 15.0%.
Sawlog plantations would yield a rate of return of about 21.5%; with a 10%
increase in cost the rate would be 20.2%, and a comparable reduction in
benefits would also yield a return of 20.1%. A combination of both would
give a rate of return of about 18.9% for sawlogs and 10.4% for pulpwood.
If neither foreign exchange nor unskilled labor were shadow priced, the
rates of return would be 12.6% and 18.0% for the pulpwood and sawlog planta-
tions respectively (Annex 11).
7.09      The net foreign exchange impact of the program is detailed in
Annex 11, Table 4. Although the program would have a negative foreign ex-
change impact from 1976 to 1981 and again in 1991 and 1992, its net annual
foreign exchange earnings would be around US$25 million during the 1980's
and about US$86 million at full development in the mid-1990's.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
points:
(a) detailed surveys of all plantable areas, including soil
surveys, would be undertaken during the Project period by a
special survey section (para 4.03);
(b) there would be no encroachment or interference by villagers
in the plantation area (para. 4.03);
(c) the procurement procedures specified in para 4.17 would be
followed;
(d) the Forest Division would set up and maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect its operations, resources and
expenditure, and separate accounts would be kept for
the Project (para. 4.19);



- 24 -
(e) Project accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor
General. Accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months following the end of the fiscal year (para
4.19);
(f) appointments of the Project Manager, the Financial Controller and
two internationally recruited specialists would be made in prior
consultation with the Bank. The Financial Controller and the
Roads/Mechanical Engineer would be employed by November 15, 1976
(para. 5.03);
(g) Government would not transfer key local staff under the
Project without adequate replacement (para 5.03);
(h) terms of reference of the pulpmill water study and of the
road engineering study would be prepared and the selection of
experts to carry out these studies would be made in prior
consultation with the Bank. (para 4.14);
(i) Government would introduce stumpage rates by January 1,
1985 for eucalyptus and by January 1, 1992 for pine, which
would enable the industrial forest plantations to become self-
supporting financially (para 7.01).
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) The gazetting of not less than 60,00 ha of additional forest
reserves (para 3.05)
(b) The appointment of the Project Manager and the Silviculturist/
Forest Economist (para 5.03).
8.03      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.0 million to the
Government of Tanzania.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Forestry Subsector in Tanzania
A. Forest Resources
1.        About one half of the total land area of Tanzania (88.7 million ha)
is classified as natural forests; these can then be further described as
below:
Type of Forest                Area ('000 ha)            Standing Volume (m 3/ha)
Gross    Net Productive 1/
Closed Forest              936           337                       197
Woodland                32,641        25,803                        47
Intermediate
Woodland               10,794         8,486                         15
Total     44,371         34,636                        41
The mountain forests are dense, high-altitude rain forests, in which the
main species are podo, camphor, cedar, loliondo, mtambara and pillarwood.
These forests are not extensive, but in addition to supplying valuable tim-
ber for both home and export markets, have the important function of regu-
lating water flow and protecting the soil from erosion. The woodlands -
Tanzania's most extensive forest type - are found in the foothills, along
the coast, and in the savanna (Miombo). The main tree species are mvule,
African mahogany, muhuhu and blackwood in the foothills and along the coast;
and muninga, mtundu and afzelia in the Miombo. The intermediate woodland
is in a transitional stage from bushland to thickets. Some 80,000 ha of
mangrove forests have also been included in this type, although the latter
are of little interest for industrial development and are regarded mainly
as a source of timber for use as building poles for local housing.
2.        The total area of gazetted forest reserves is approximately 13
million ha, representing about 15% of the total land area of Tanzania and
about 30% of the forest area. There are 540 forest reserves scattered
throughout the country, which serve a dual function as a source of wood
and wood products and as catchment areas. About 1.6 out of the 13 million
ha of forest reserves have been gazetted as catchment areas. These are
utilized to store of these areas are found in mountain areas such as Kili-
manjaro, Arusha, Tanga, Morogoro, Iringa, Mbeya and Ruvuma.
1/   After deducting catchment areas, parks and inaccessible forests.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        In addition to the natural forests, there are 42,000 ha of soft-
wood exotic plantations (mainly Pinus patula and Cupressus lusitanica) and
6,000 ha of hardwood plantations, mainly of native species. The main con-
centrations of existing softwood plantations are in the Kilimanjaro, Usambara
and Sao Hill regions. The past planting program has averaged 4,000 ha a year,
and this is envisaged to be increased to 5,600 ha in the present plan period
(1975-80). The current Ruvu and Sao Hill annual planting programs represent
about 50% of the total softwood planting program for the whole country.
4.        Cooperative village plantations for fuelwood, poles, etc., are
also becoming significant components of the Government's forest development
program. These are of particular interest as village forestry is labor in-
tensive and little foreign exchange or foreign technical inputs are required.
5.        Although the hardwood forests have provided most of the country's
domestic sawn lumber requirements in the past, the low standing volumes, the
preponderance of non-merchantable species and the widely scattered distribu-
tion of the exploitable trees limit their economic value. However, the natural
forests perform an important protective function such as the prevention of
soil erosion and water retention, and they provide domestic fuel and timber,
as well as some valuable timber for export. Therefore, Government's present
forest policy aims at the development of these resources primarily for the
production of valuable hardwood species suitable for the manufacture of lum-
ber veneer and plywood; the bulk of these goods is expected to be exported.
The plantation softwoods are intended to supply most of the country's domes-
tic demands for construction lumber. This will represent a more economic use
of available resources, as production costs of sawn lumber from concentrated
plantation forests are significantly lower than from indigenous forests.
B. Forest Development Policy and Strategy
6.        In Tanzania forestry development planning is closely linked to
the needs of other rural sectors. The following policy targets have been
put forward in the Forestry Third Five Year Development Plan of 1975-1980:
(a) To set aside as permanent forest reserves a sufficient
area of land throughout the country to ensure:
(i) That the protective functions of forests in con-
serving water supplies, preserving and improving
local climates and establishing land liable to
deterioration are maintained and improved.
(ii)   That all types of forest products are available
in adequate quantities to the people of Tanzania
at all times both now and in the future.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(b) To manage the forest estate in such a manner as to make it
as productive as possible in accordance with the primary
objectives stated above.
(c) To utilize forest produce on public lands to the best advantage
of the community, while recognizing that such assets are dwindling
due to increased demand for agricultural land.
(d) To foster efficient harvesting and utilization of forest products
and to encourage and develop suitable forest industries for the
processing of these products and also to build on export trade to
include both better known and lesser known timber species.
(e) To encourage and assist the practice of forestry in Ujamaa
villages.
(f) To undertake and promote research with a view to obtaining the
most satisfactory protection of water supplies, soils and local
climate.
(g) To undertake and promote forestry education and training in all
branches of forestry and build up by example and appreciation
forestry and its inherent benefits to Tanzanians and their des-
cendants.
While these objectives are basically the same as in the Second Five Year
Development Plan, more emphasis has now been put on proper wood utiliza-
tion, as well as on soil and water conservation. Government has in this
regard directed the Forest Service to pay greater attention to investigating
and applying methods of preventing soil erosion, loss of moisture and uncon-
trolled fires.
7.         Tanzania's goal in the Second Five Year Development Plan was to
plant 18,400 ha of softwood species and 2,950 ha of hardwood species from
1969/70 to 1973/74, and Government succeeded in planting 95 percent of its
targets over that period. Details of the forestry expenditures over the
last five years are given as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Forestry Expenditures
Expenditures, T Sh '000
Year       Development /a                 Recurrent          Total
1969/70        11,537                      8,000            19,537
1970/71        13,679                      9,908            23,587
1971/72        13,727                     15,810            29,537
1972/73        20,699                     10,748            31,447
1973/74        18,531                      8,532            27,063
TOTAL          78,173                     52,998           131,171
/a   About T Sh 34 million (43%) of the development funds were received
by Tanzania mainly as grants from donor countries and UNDP.
About 80% of the development funds (T Sh 60 million) were used for esta-
blishment and tending of forest plantations. A summary of the financial
requirements as outlined in the Forestry Third Five Year Development Plan
is given in Table 2.
C. Government Revenues from the Forestry Subsector
8.        Government derives substantial revenues from log sales, char-
coal royalties and pole sales; these are paid directly to the Central
Government account. Revenue from the sale of forest products over the years
1969-73 is given below:
Revenue From Sale of Forest Products
Year                Revenue (T Sh)
1969                 8,090,900
1970                 6,424,000
1971                 7,487,200
1972                 6,405,700
1973                 7,836,700
Total           36,244,500



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Although stumpage rates were increased considerably in 1975, without further
increases the stumpage revenues would not cover both Government's investments
and maintenance expenditure on forest plantations.
D. Foreign Assistance
9.        The following agencies have assisted with projects for the develop-
ment of forestry and forest industries in Tanzania:
(a) The Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) has pro-
vided considerable financial assistance 1/ for the general develop-
ment of the forestry sector, and is interested in long term sectoral
planning and training in forest industries; it has also provided
support for Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation (TWICO), as well
as technical assistance for afforestation, a land use survey,
improvement of management techniques, and fuelwood production;
(b) The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has helped
to carry out extensive forest inventories;
(c) The Norwegian Assistance Agency (NORAD) has given financial support
and provided international staff for the Forest Department of the
Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry at Morogoro, and has made
provision for post graduate forestry training in Norway; it has
also provided equipment for the Sao Hill sawmill and financing for
forest industries consultancy services;
(d) The Finnish Assistance Program (FINAID) has provided consultancy
services and is interested in planning for forest industries
development and in promoting forest industries.
The Governments of Denmark and Czechoslovakia are also reported to be con-
sidering aid for forestry development in Tanzania.
1/   About T Sh 23 million in grants were provided over the second plan period
and T Sh 34 million in 1975/76.
April 1976



TANZANIA                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Distribution of Area by Planting Years g1nd
Species in the Existing Forest Reserves Included in the Project
(ha if)
Age                                      Speeies
Classes       Planting                             Other SWs                Total
(years)        Year      P.patula  P.elliott"i   & Mixtures           Yearly  By age classes
1954         363          -            158               521)
20+                                                                          )  568   ^
5          32                        15                47)        8
6          28                         7                35)         X
1-4
7          22                        26                48)         u
15-20              8          81                        85               166)  488   0
9          63                        70               133)        -4
60         101         3               2               106)
0
D:
61          76       150                               226)         -
2          85       219               6               310)         c
10-15              3          85         -             288               373) 1444
4         173       186              17               376)         I
159) 9
5         293       293              42        628  (46
66         604       391               -               995)
5-10               7         166       227             432                825)
8         395       406               -               801) 2867  
9                                                        )-..
70         246         -               -               246)
-4
71         186       522               -               708)
2         222       134             546               902)         =
0-5                3          409      454               -                863) 4024   3
4         667       254               -               921)         
:3
5         380       250               -               630)
Grand Total                 4677      3489            1694              9860  9860
1975-6                                        estimated    1500  1500
11360 11360
1/ Including Sao Hill, Makabila, Ngwasi, Msiwasi, Mninga, Irunda,
Kihanga and Gulosilo forest reserves.
2/ Areas from F.D. management maps.



TANZANIA
SAO,HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Projected Devel6o ent rt  enditntres_/-Forest Division
(T Sh'OOO)
Total
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    T Sh '000          %
Catchment Forest                     1,249       1,982      2,175       2,495       2,900        10,801         4
Soil Conservation                    1,865       3,000      3,500       4,000       4,500        16,865         5
Softwood Planting                   19,297     25,000      28,000      30,000      32,000       134,297        44
Hardwood Planting                    3,088       3,500      4,000       4,500       5,000        20,088         7
Village Afforestation                1,285       4,350      7,055      12,460      17,765        42,915        14
Development of Indig. forests        1,039       1,700      2,200       2,575       2,835        10,349         3
Logging Development                    -         1,500      1,800       2,000       2,500         7,800         2
Survey and Inventory                 1,289       3,005      3,508       4,000       4,499        16,301         5
Beekeeping                             -         1,742      3,635       2,882       2,002        10,261         3
Forestry Research                    1,908       3,028      3,590       3,942       4,534        17,002         6
Training and Publicity               3,705       4,000      4,330       4,600       4,900        21,535         7
Sub-total            34,725     52,807      63,793      73,454      83,435       308,214       100
FIPU.2/                    1,560       1,716       1,888      2,077       2,285         9,526
TWICO - Training             920       1,012       1,113      1,224       1,347         5,616
- Investments       28,800      31,700     34,900      38,400      42,200       176,000
Grand Total          66,005      87,235    101,694    115,155    129,267         499,356                1 A
1/  RecuFrent expenditure in the second Development Plan amounted to about half of the development expenditure.
2/ FIPU is dealing with small scale industries such as sale of fuelwood, charcoal.



ANN4EX 2
Page  1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Development of Project Infrastructure
1.        This Annex describes the technical aspects of all physical works
to be carried out under the Project. The works would include afforestation
and fire protection; the construction and maintenance of access and plantation
roads and tracks; the construction of housing and other buildings; research
and trials; and studies (Table 1).
A. Afforestation and Fire Protection
2.        The plantation establishment methods to be followed under the
Project are generally speaking those currently in use at Sao Hill by the
Forest Division. Details are given below. The planting schedule is shown
in Table 2, the replanting schedule in Table 3 and labor requirements in
Table 4. Details of the Project area are presented in Appendix 1.
Surveying
3.        Topographic surveys of the Sao Hill area, based on aerial photo-
graphs, for the production of base maps showing contours and the main features
of roads, railways, rivers, swamps and existing plantations would require
updating for the existing forest reserve and the proposed extension areas; the
latter would also require details of the areas of habitation, cultivation and
grazing. The planning of roads and firebreaks would be based on these maps
and would be followed by a detailed field survey. Maps have already been
prepared at 1:50,000 for part of the forest reserves; for future mapping a
scale of 1:10,000 is proposed. Special attention would be given to areas
which should remain unplanted, more particularly steep slopes (over 30%) and
marshy ground.
4.        Only preliminary work has so far been done on soil surveys. Further
work is needed to prepare soil classification maps, including both chemical
and physical soil factors, on which to base soil treatment. These maps,
together with growth data from permanent sample plots, would eventually
provide site maps for calculating yields. Soil surveys would be conducted
in plantable areas only, over approximately 70,000 ha divided into a five-
year program of 14,000 ha/year. The surveys would include:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) Investigation of soil depth and pans using soil augers;
(b) Top soil (0-20 cm) sampling and chemical analysis for
pH, N, P, K, Ca and Mg; and sampling for micronutrients;
(c) Description of soil profiles, vegetation and topography;
(d) Deep soil (80-100 cm) sampling and chemical analysis.
A manual of procedure for the soil surveys is being prepared (1975-76) by
Dr. Nykuist (SIDA), currently working with the Forest Research Section of
the Forestry Department.
5.        Survey operations would be directed by the Project Manager and
carried out by a Survey Section composed of a surveyor, assistant surveyor,
draughtsman, soil analyst and two field assistants.
Nurseries
6.        Basic establishment costs have been worked out on a nursery unit
producing 1.5 million transplants annually. Such a unit would be sufficient
for an annual average planting program of 750 ha. Two nurseries would be
operated; one is already in existence and the other would be set up at the
new village site. The production of these nurseries would be in multiples
of the model unit, according to the annual planting program. Nursery pro-
duction would be on the basis of 2,000 transplants per ha, allowing for
culling (20%), transport losses and the replacement of failures in the
field. As pine would be planted in the ratio of 80% Pinus patula and 20%
Pinus elliottii (and others), and as 1 kg of Pinus patula should yield 40,000
transplants and 1 kg of Pinus elliottii only 10,000 transplants, a nursery
unit would require 30 kg of Pinus patula and 32 kg of Pinus elliottii seed.
The seed should come from the best available sources. Carefully selected
local seed of Pinus patula would be used, but Pinus elliottii seed would
probably have to be imported.
7.        The current so-called Swaziland bed transplanting technique should
be abandonned because of its improper use at Sao Hill and of the relatively
high failure rate at planting - out time. Instead, the seedlings should be
potted from the seed beds into black plastic tubes (75 mm x 200 mm, 250
gauge). The tubes would be filled with a mixture of soil (80% forest top
soil and 20% pine mycorrhizal soil) and sand. Sowing would take place be-
tween March and July. The transplants would be about 9 months old at plant-
ing-out time (December to March). Sprinkler irrigation would be applied and
fertilizer progressively added at the rate of 1/2 gram per plant.
8.        Altogether nursery production is estimated to require about 8
man-days per 1,000 transplants, including supervision by foremen (0.7 man-
day).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Ground Preparation
9.        Bush clearing would be required over not more than 10% of the
planting area. This operation would be done by hand and the trash piled
into heaps would be burnt. All the planted area would be strip-ploughed
by wheeled tractor. No fertilizer is advocated, at least during the first
phase of the Project, but fertilizer trials would be carried out.
Planting and Replacing of Failures
10.       The present planting distance of 2.70 m by 2.70 m (1,370 plants
per ha) would be maintained. The planting season is normally from December
to March, with about 70 to 90 rainy days and at least 40 actual planting
days. A planting unit should be able to cover 35 ha per planting day or 1,400
ha per planting season. The normal output for planting (by hand) would be 200
plants per day, or 7 man-days per ha. It is expected that failures would be
replaced over 10% of the area, scattered failures being ignored.
Weeding
11.       Mfechanical weeding would be carried out once in the year of plant-
ing and once the following year, using a tractor and rotorvator. In addition
hand weeding would be carried out in the second year.
Pruning and Thinning
12.       Neither pruning nor thinning is necessary in a short rotation
pulpwood plantation. However, pruning to a height of 2.50 m would be carried
out at five years of age as a fire protection measure along roads and tracks
incorporated in the secondary firebreak network to a depth of 10 m on either
side of the firebreaks, and the trash would be burnt. This would entail
pruning approximately 6% of the pulpwood plantations. Pre-Project plantations
would be pruned during the Project period and Project plantations during
a later phase. The pruning and thinning of sawlog plantations are dealt
with separately.
Fire Protection
13.       Firebreak Construction and Maintenance.  Primary firebreaks 40 m
wide would be constructed around blocks not exceeding 1,000 ha in area. 3 m
wide strips would be cleared on either side of the firebreak by means of
a motor grader, leaving a width of 34 m for annual controlled burning between
the cleared strips. Secondary firebreaks 20 m wide would be constructed
along all roads and half the tracks, but the 3 m wide strips would be cleared
on one side only.
14.       The annual maintenance of the 3 m wide strips would be done by
ploughing or discing with wheeled tractors. The uncleared strips would
be control-burnt annually.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       Fire Control.  The rainfall pattern in Sao Hill gives rise to
a fire hazard period of about four months between July and October. During
this period look-out posts would be expected to be full-time manned and
standby fire-fighting crews alerted for 90 days. The fire-fighting crews
would be recruited from the normal staff and labor located at convenient
call-out points (e.g., nurseries and workshops). The number of days of
actual call-out of crews would vary according to the fire hazard. Experience
to date indicates that about 20 investigation calls and minor incidents
and two large-scale outbreaks occur annually at a typical station. On
this basis, and taking into account Sundays, public holidays and after-
work hours when standby crews would be needed, it is expected that crews
would be employed on fire control duties for about 35 days per year.
16.       Look-out posts, manned by a crew of two operating on a double-
shift basis, would have telephone wireless communication with main stations
and fire-fighting crews, and would be sited for every 6,000 to 8,000 ha
of plantations. There would be two types of fire-fighting crews: small
6-man investigating teams, using 4-WD pickups, and 14-man major teams equipped
with a 5-ton 4-WD fire truck with tank and pump. The truck would be used
for general work during the rainy season. Each station would initially
have an investigating team, with additions of these as the area of planta-
tions increases. Equipment for a major team for each station is provided
as the plantation areas become established.
17.       The proposed crew manning list and the equipment needed is given
in the table below:
Investigating and Small Fire Crew (SFC)                Full Scale Crew (FSC)
Equipment
LWD 4 WD pick-up with:                   5-ton 4 WD fire truck with:
trailer pump                            water tank, pto pump, and
pack pumps                              spare pump
walkie-talkie set                        pack pumps
fire beaters                            walkie-talkie set
fire beaters
Manning
driver                                   driver
pump operator                             pump operator
4 firemen                                 12 firemen
Stations would also be equipped with 3,000 liter trailer water tankers which
could be towed by tractor or truck.
18.       On the basis of the foregoing, the fire control equipment require-
ment to be provided during the Project and post-Project period are summarized
below:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Summary of Fire Control Equipment Requirement
S.H. Extension 1   S.H. Extension 2
Sao Hill                (High Elevation)    (Low Elevation)
LO /a    SFC /b    FSC Ic        LO    SFC   FSC    LO    SFC   SFC
Project
1         2           2          1         1      1
Post Project
6
11          1          1          1         1       2      2      1       1     1
3      3      1
/a   Look-out Towers.
lb   Small Fire Crews.
Ic   Full Scale Crews.
Sawlog Working Circle
19.       The oldest 2,500 ha of the existing plantations (aged 11 to 21
years) a5e being reserved for sawlog production to ensure a supply of
30,000 m year of mature logs to the Sao Hill sawmill, which is equivalent
to the log requirements of the sawmill for a single shift. Management of
this area will be on the basis of a 25-year rotation with prunings at
years 4,36, 8 and 10 and thinnings aS years 6, 10 and 15. Expected yields
are 12 m /ha/year of sawlogs and 4 m /ha/year of thinnings for pulpwood.
Clear-felling for the sawmill will commence in 1976 with 50 ha, increasing
to 80 ha in 1977 and 100 ha/year thereafter. Replanting of the clear-felled
areas would be undertaken by the Project in the year following felling, and
will amount to 330 ha during the Project. Costs are based on similar unit
costs as those for pulpwood plantations.
20.       The existing sawlog plantations have not been satisfactorily pruned
and thinned. With respect to the plantations aged 16 years and over, there
would be no significant improvement in log quality if these operations were
undertaken now. For the plantations in the age group 11 to 15 years, pruning
and thinning significantly improve the log quality and the Project includes
provision for these operations to be carried out in the first two years of
the Project; thinning would be undertaken as a sawmill logging operation
and pruning to 10 m height would be carried out in one operation on the basis
of 12 man-days/ha.
21.       The costs of surveys, fire control, firebreaks and roads maintenance
are included in pulpwood working circle costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
B. Road Construction and Maintenance
Access Roads
22.       Provision is included for upgrading 17 km of the existing Council
road connecting the new main station site to the Tanzam highway and the
construction of 5 km of a new primary road to provide a road linkage for
the new main station southwards to the existing Munfindi district road.
Plantation Road and Tracks
23.       General.  The objective of the road program is to lay out a road
system during the plantation establishment phases which would be adequate
for the planting program and which would be subsequently upgraded for logging
without Lncurring heavy costs. A survey team would determine the alignment
of roads and tracks. Only those truck roads necessary for plantation esta-
blishment, maintenance and fire protection would be constructed under the
Project; the remainder of the alignments would be used as access tracks
for planting. Upgrading would take place during subsequent phases when
all-weather surfaces would become necessary.
24.       Road Density.  It has been assumed that an average of 3 m of
primary roads (7-8 m wide) per ha, 7 m of secondary roads (6-7 m wide)
per ha and 25 m of tracks (4 m wide) per ha would be required, giving a
total of 35 m per ha for all categories. Altogether 48.5 km of primary
roads, 115.5 km of secondary roads and 392.5 km of tracks would be con-
structed during the Project.
25.       Road Construction. During the Project, all road construction
would be in the Sao Hill forest reserve and adjacent extension areas at
high elevation; a 150 hp grader would be used both on flat land and along
ridges. It is estimated that on average, grader times per kilometer would
be 16 hours for primary roads, 14 hours for secondary roads and 8 hours for
tracks.
26.       Culverts, Bridges and Drains.  An average of 6 culverts would be
required per kilometer of primary or secondary road and one bridge would be
required for every 6 km of primary or secondary roads. All timber require-
ments for culverts and bridges would be met from adjacent eucalyptus planta-
tions or natural forest, at the rate of 1.6 tons per culvert and 10 tons per
bridge, with an average transport distance of 10 kg round trip for culverts
and 15 kg round trip for bridges. Small supplies (spikes, bolts, etc.) would
come to 1 kg per culvert and 20 kg per bridge. The labor requirements would
be 4 man-days per culvert and 20 man-days per bridge. Adequate side drains
would be provided and maintained on all slopes.
27.       Gravelling.  Provision is made for gravelling of 25% of primary
and secondary roads, at the rate of 880 3m (22 cm thick and 4 m wide) of
gravel per km of primary road and 660 m (22 cm thick and 3 m wide) per km



ANNEX 2
Page 7
of secondary road. Gravel is obtainable from several sites over the Project
area and an average handling distance of 10 km per rould trip has been allowed,
using 5-ton tipper trucks hand-loaded and carrying 3 m loads. Spreading
would be by grader at the rate of 12 hours per km for primary roads and
9 hours per km for secondary roads.
28.       Road Maintenance.  All existing and new roads and tracks would
be graded once annually. The lengths involved by the end of the Project
would be 82 km of primary roads, 141 km of secondary roads and 503 km of
tracks. The outputs of the grader have been estimated at 100 minutes per km
for primary roads, 90 minutes for secondary roads and 45 minutes for tracks.
C.   Buildings and Housing
29.       Provision would be made under the Project for the construction of
headquarters, divisional and station offices and stores, fire look-out towers,
garage/workshops and stores, dispensaries, cooperative stores/shops, schools,
village halls, water supplies, nurseries, and housing for staff and laborers
(Table 5). Unit costs and total costs are shown in Table 6.
30.       Provision is being made for housing all the field staff as no
alternative accommodation exists in or near the Project area. Labor housing
requirements have been based on the calculated permanent work force which
the Project expects to employ; the standards of the houses are defined by
the unit cost and total cost as outlined in Table 7. Additional labor would
be employed on a casual basis and would be recruited from nearby villages.
Construction would be carried out by direct labor and would be completed
within the first two years of the Project. During the first year all the
buildings and a proportion of the housing would be built at an estimated
cost of approximately T Sh 3.5 million. During the second year, the balance
of housing (120 laborers, 10 field assistants and 4 assistant foresters)
would be built at an estimated cost of approximately T Sh 2.25 million.
D.   Equipment and Vehicles
31.       The Project would require investment in equipment and vehicles
which would be used for afforestation, road construction and workshops, and
for administration. Details of requirements and costs are given in Table 7.
February 26, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Summarized Implementation Schedule
of Afforestation and Industrial Programs
Probable Timing                                         Activities
Pre-Project                           Establishment and maintenance of existing
(p. 1954-1976) plantations: 2,500 ha. Sawlog
Working Circle; c. 8,860 ha Pulpwood Working
Circle. Construction of sawmill. Pulp and
paper mill feasibility study.
1976-81 Phase I                       Start up of sawmill on single shift (input
30,000 m3 p.a.). Establishment and main-
tenance of 15,750 ha. of new pulpwood plan-
tations. Replanting of 330 ha. of sawlog
plantations. Maintenance of 11,260 ha. of
existing plantations. Construction of 65,000
TPA pulp and paper mill. Project implementation
schedule is given in Annex 4.
1981-86 Phase II                      Start up of pulp and paper mill and logging
industry. Start up of second shift in saw-
mill. Establishment and maintenance of 17,500
ha. of pulpwood plantations. Replanting of 500
ha. of sawlog plantations and 3,100 ha. of
pulpwood plantations. Maintenance of 27,000
ha. of existing plantations.
1986-91 Phase III                     Establishment and maintenance of 18,000 ha.
of pulpwood plantations. Replanting of 500
ha. of sawlog plantations and 5,000 ha. of
pulpwood plantations. Maintenance of 44,500
ha. of existing plantations.
Total Area of Plantations =           65,000 ha., of which:  60,000 ha. Pulpwood W.C.
5,000 ha. Sawlog W.C.
1991-95                               Feasibility study and construction of envisaged
180,000 TPA pulp and paper mill extension.
1993                               Start up of 180,000 TPA pulp and paper mill
extension.



Annex 2
TANZANIA                                     Table 2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Physical Work Schedule
(T Sh '000)
Project Year
Unit          1         2          3          4          5
1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   Total
A.  Afforestation and
Fire Protection
Surveys                       Ha          14,000    14,000    14,000    14,000    14,000   70,000
Nursery Production        Millions             3        4.6        6.2        9.2       9.2      32.2
Ground Preparation            Ha           1,500      2,300      3,100     4,000      4,000   16,100
Planting-Pulpwood WC          Ha           1,500      2,250      3,000     4,500      4,500   15,750
Replanting-Sawlog WC          Ha             -           50         80        100        100      330
Weeding                       Ha           3,000      3,800      5,400      7,700     9,200   29,100
Pruning Sawlog WC             Ha             750        750        -          -         -       1,500
Pruning-Fire Protec-
tion                       Ha               60         50        55         55         40       200
Firebreak Construc-
tion                        Ha              45         68         90       136        136       475
Firebreak Mainte-
nance                       Ha             264        309        377       468        604    2,022
Fire Control                  Ha          12,500    14,750    17,750    22,250    28,750
B.  Forest Roads
New Road Construc-
tion                        Km              75         79        105        158       158       575
Road Mainte-
nance                       Km             313        386        465        570       726    2,400
C.  Buildings and Hous-
ing-
Construction                 Unit            100        134        -          -         _         234
D.  Research and
Trials
Species Trials                Ha               5          5          5       -          -          15
Pilot Planta-
tions                      Ha              -          -           20         20        20        60
Fertilizer
Trials                      Ha              10         10         10         10         10       50
E.  Studies
Aerial Photo-
graphy                   Months            -          -          -            3       -
Water Availa-
bility Study           Man-month            12
Escarpment Road
Study                  Man-month             4



Annex 2
Table 3
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Schedule (No-t Dlanted area. in ha)
Sao Hill             High Elevation       Low Elevation       Totals         Grand
Planting   Existing Forest Reserves       Extension Areas    Extension Areas (Pulpwood)         Totals
Year     Sawlog WC   Pulpwood WC    (All Pulpwood)          (All Pulpwood)        WC         Sawlog WC&
Pine                 Pine   Euc.          Pine  Euc.2/       Pine   Euc.   PulpwoodWC
1954-75    2,500          7,360          -
1975-76      -            1,500
Totals     2,500          8,860                                               8,860             11,360
Pre Project
Project
1976-77                   1,200                  300          Research        1,200    300
77-78                   1,500          450    300          Trials and       1,950    300
78-79                   1,500        1,200    300          Pilot            2,700    300
79-80                   2,250        1,950    300          Plantations    4,200    300
80-81                   1,550        2,650    300                           4,200    300
Totals Project             8,000       6,250  1,500            -     -       14,250  1,500       15,750
Phase II 1/
1981-82      500            -          1,500                1,000  1,000      2,500  1,000
82-83      500            -          1,500                1,000  1,000      2,500  1,000
83-84      500            -          1,500                1,000  1,000      2,500  1,000
84-85      500            -          1,500                1,000  1,000      2,500  1,000
85-86      500            -          1,500                1,000  1,000      2,500  1,000
Totals
Phase II   2,500                        7,500               5,000  5,000    12,500  5,000        20,000
Phase III 1'
1986-87                     -          1,500                1,000  1,100      2,500  1,100
87-88                     -          1,500                1,000  1,100      2,500  1,100
88-89                     -          1,500                1,000  1,100      2,500  1,100
89-90                     -          1,500                1,000  1,100      2,500  1,100
1990-91                                1,500                1,000  1,100      2,500  1,100
Total Phase TI1                         7,500               5,000  5,500    12,500  5,500        18,000
TOTALS: Pulpwood WC       16%60       21,250  1,500        10,000 10,500    48,000 12,000
Sawlog WC
5,000 _60,000                                                                        65,000
1/  Distribution of the planting area between High and Low Elevation extension areas in Phases
2 and 3 would be finally determined by area availability and suitability.
2/ Distribution of plaitations between pine and eucalyptus and plantation areas would be
finally determined by mill configuration.
WC = Working Circle



Annex 2
Table 4
TANZANIA
SAO WILL FORlFSTRV PRnJPCT
Annual Replanting Schedule (following Clearfelling)
1/                       2/
REPLANTING - Proiect         Sawlog                  Pulpwood
1976
7                   50
8                   80
9                  100
1980                  100
Totals Project               330
REPLANTING - Phase II
1981                  100
2                  100                      450
3                  100                      650
4                  100                    1,000
5                  iCC                    1,000
Totals Phase II              500                     3,100
REPLANTING - Phase III
1986                  100                     1,000
7                  100                    1,000
8                  100                    1,000
9                  100                    1,000
1990                  100                     1,000
Totals Phase III             500                     5,000
1/  Based on sawmill single shift annual input of 15,000 m3 1976,
25,000 m3 1977 and 30,000 m3 1978 onwards
2/  Based on yulpmill start up in 1981 and pine wood (clearfelling) requirements of
100,000 m  in 1981, 150,000 m3 in 1982 and 225,000 m3 in 1983 and thereafter.



Annex 2
Table 5
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Summary of Manpower Requirements
Project Year
1        2        3        4         5
Forest Operations                      ----------Man-days (000's)----------
Surveys                              0.8        0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8
Nurseries       Pulpwood            24.1       36.1      48.2     72.3      72.3
Sawlogs               -         0.8       1.3      1.6       1.6
Land            Pulpwood             9.6       14.4      19.2     28.8      28.8
Preparation  Sawlogs                -         0.8       1.2      1.5       1.5
Planting        Pulpwood            12.3       18.5      24.7     37.0      37.0
Sawlogs               -         0.6      0.9       1.1       1.1
Replacing
failures     Pulpwood              1.2        1.9      2.5       3.7       3.7
Sawlogs               -         0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
Weeding         Pulpwood            11.2       11.3      17.0     22.7      33.6
Sawlogs               -         0.4       1.0      1.3       1.5
Truning         Pulpwood             0.9        0.8       0.8       0.8      0.6
Sawlogs              9.2        9.2       -         -         -
Firebreak       Pulpwood             0.2        0.4       0.5      0.8       0.8
Construction
Firebreak       Pulpwood & Sawlogs  2.2         1.5       1.8       2.2      2.9
Maintenance
Fire Control   Pulpwood & Sawlogs  1.7          1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7
Road Con-       Pulpwood & Sawlogs  3.5         4.5       5.8       8.8      8.8
struction
Road            Pulpwood & Sawlogs  0.1         0.1       0.1       0.2      0.2
Maintenance
Totals                       77.0     103.9    127.6    185.4    197.0
Water Supplies & Station Upkeep    2.3          2.3       2.3       2.3      2.3
Buildings Maintenance                3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
82.3     109.2    132.9    190.7    202.3
No. of man-years equivalent
@ 253 working days/year          325        430       525      750       800
Note:  Labor for buildings and construction program in years 1 and 2 is not
included in above calculations.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Building Requirements
Total Required
Buildings                           Required  Existingi/ Under Project
Project HQ Offices                      1          -            1
Sub-Project Area (Division) Office      1          -            1
Sub-Project Area Store                  2          1            1
Sub-Project Workshop/Garage             2          1            1
Fire Lookout Towers                     3          1            2
Station (Forester) Offices              3          1            2
Station Garage/stores                   3          1            2
Station Dispensaries                    2          -            2
Station Coop. Store/shops               3          -            3
Station Schools                         3          1            2
Station Village Halls                   3          1            2
Station Nurseries                       2          1            1
Housing
Senior Officers-/.!                     1          1            3
Foresters, Roads and Workshop
Foremen                                -          -            9
Rest House                              1          1            -
Assistant Foresters, Asst. Surveyors,
C.01 Grade                            19         10            9
Teachers                                6          2            4
Field Assists. Drivers, Dressers,
C.02 Grade                            34         15           19
Labor                                 190         20           170
1/ Existing Buildings to be incorporated in the Project.
2/ Financial COntroller and Assistant Roads/Mechanical Engineer would use
forester grade housing for the first five years.



TANZANIA                                           Table 7
SAo HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Summary of Building Costs -
Area           Unit           Costs            Costs
Number           2          (TShs/m2)      ,TShs/Unit)      (TShs'OOO)
Buildings
kFroject Q and Extension
High Elevation Divisonal Office                   2              100           700             70,000           140
Divisional Stores                                 1              100           600             60,000            60
Divisional Workshop/Garages                       1              200           600            120,000           120
Five Look-out Towers                              2               -             -               4,000 2/         -
Station Offices                                   2               45           700             30 snn            63
Station Garage/Stores                             2               60           600             36000             72
Station Dispensaries                              2               50           700             35,000            70
Station Cooperative Store/Shops                   3               50           600             30,000            90
Station Schools                                   2              100           700             70,000           1240
Station Village Halls                             2              100           700             70,000           140
Station Water Supply                              1             Pump/Engine Unit,
Masonry Tank,
Piping                        70,000            70
Station Nurseries                                 1               -             -                 -   3/         -
965
Sub-Total
Housing
Forest Officers                                   2              110         1,200            132,000           264
Engineers                                         1              110         1,200            132,000           132
Foresters & Road/Workshops Foremen                9               80         l.100             88,000           792
Asst. Forest Surveyors C.O.1                      9               50           900             45,000           405
Teachers                                          4               50           900             45,000           180
Field Asst., Dressers, C.0.2
Drivers                                          19               40           700             28,000           532  H
Labor                                           170               30           500             15,000         2.5
Sub-Total                                                                        14, 855 
Tatal                                                                             5.820
11 As of September 1975*
2/ Included in Fire Control Costs.
I Iacluded inu Nursexy Costs.



TANZANIA                             ANNEX 2
Table 8
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Eguipment and Vehicle Costsl/
(a) For Afforestation
Project Year2/
Description                         1        2        3       4        5
65 hp Wheeled Tractor            No.        4       2        2        4       2
at T Sh 84,500/each             Cost    338      169      169     338      169
7 Ton Flatbed Truck              No.        2       1       -         1      -
at T Sh 107,000/each            Cost    214      107       -      107       -
Truck Platforms                  No.        2       1        2        2       2
at T Sh 1,500/each              Cost       3       1        3        3       3
New Nursery(Construction)L/    No.          1        1      -        -       -
Cost    120      120      -        -        -
Irrigation Equipment for         No.        1
Existing Nursery                Cost      70      -        -        -       -
2 Furrow Reversible Plough       No.        4       2        2        4      -
at T Sh 14,500/each             Cost      58      29       29      58       -
Rotary Slasher                   No.        3       2        2        4      -
at T Sh 10,000/each             Cost      30      20       20       20      -
2 Gang 22" Disc Harrow           No.        3      -        -       -        -
at T Sh 13,500/each             Cost      40      -        -       -        -
5 Ton Tractor Trailers           No.        2
at T Sh 15,000/each             Cost      30      -        -       -        -
Fire Towers                      No.        3      -        -        -       -
at T Sh 4,000/each              Cost      12      -        -        -       -
Wireless Sets                    No.       11      -        -        -       -
at T Sh 4,000/each              Cost      44      -        -        -       -
5-Ton WD Fire Trucks             No.        1      -        -        -       -
at T Sh 130,000/each            Cost    130       -        -        -       -
Land Rover Trailer Pump Units  No.          3       -       -        -        -
at T Sh 13,500/each             Cost      40      -        -        -
Trailer Water Tanks, 3,000 1   No.          1      -        -        -       -
at T Sh 34,000/each              Cost      34      -        -        -
Hand Pack Pumps                  No.       40      20       -        -        -
at T Sh 170/each                Cost       7      3        -        -       -
Totals                      1,170    449       221      526      172



ANNEX 2
Table 8 Cont'd
(b) For Road Construction and Workshop
Project Year
Description                     1       2        3       4        5
Workshop Equipment            Cost        330     -       -        -       -
5-Ton Tipper Trucks           No.           2     -       -         1      -
at T Sh 130,000/each         Cost       260      -       -       130      -
Motor Grader Type G130        NO.           1     -       -         1      -
at T Sh 660,000/each         Cost       660      -       -       660      -
Spares Inventory
at 10% of Year 1
- Equipment Costs            Cost       270      -
Totals                  1,520     -        -      790
(c) For Administration
Project Year 1
Saloon Car                          1 at 54,000                  54
4-Wheel  Drive Pick-up              3 at 55,000                 165
3 at 62,000                186
3/4-Ton Pick-up                     2 at 45,000                  90
Light Pick-ups                      3 at 27,000                  81
Survey Equipment                                                 30
Office Furniture and Equipment                                   20
Field Telephone Sets                2 at T Sh 20,000             40
Public Telephone Connections        2 at T Sh 20,000             40
Total                                   706
1/ As of September 1975
2/ Cost in '000 T Sh



ANNEX 2
Appendix .
Page  1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Area
A. Land Availability
1.        The Project would provide for the planting of some 16,000 ha in
the Sao Hill forest reserve; about half of the area would be in the existing
forest reserve and the remainder would be in areas to the north and east of
Sao Hill which are expected to be gazetted in the near future.
2.        These plantations would provide part of the raw material necessary
to sustain ultimately a proposed 180,000 TPA pulpmill, the first phase of
which is expected to be under construction in 1976 (Annex 4, Table 2). An
overall net area of 60,000 ha of plantations would be required to sustain
full capacity operations. The existing gazetted forest reserves at and
around Sao Hill amount to approximately 26,000 ha gross, with an estimated
net plantable area of 22,000 ha; some 10,000 ha of this area are already
planted, and a further 1,500 ha will be planted in the 1975-76 planting
season. Extension areas totalling more than 60,000 ha gross and represent-
ing a net plantable area of at least 32,000 ha are available north and east
of Sao Hill. Government has already made plans for the gazetting of these
areas, and the gazetting of sufficient land to carry out the scheduled Proj-
ect plantations would be a condition of loan negotiations. In addition to
these areas, other extension areas are scheduled to be added to the reserve
in the future. Above the escarpment, limited areas to the west and south-
east of Sao Hill may be available; also, larger areas are available in the
lower elevations below the Mufindi escarpment, and these are expected to be
gazetted at a later date. Enough land suitable for the establishment of
industrial plantations is available by 1990 to meet the target requirement
of 60,000 ha of plantations.
3.        The Project plantations would be established on extensive tracts
of unutilized and sparsely populated grasslands which are well suited to
the growing of pine. The Sao Hill reserve represents probably the most
suitable area in Tanzania for this purpose; its climatic and soil condi-
tions are particularly favorable, and Government has given high priority
to the establishment of plantations in this location.
B. Description of the Project Area
4.         Topography.  Generally the whole area on the plateau is flat or
gently undulating, with no steep slopes except in the eastern part of the



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
extension areas. The Little Ruaha river has its source in a swamp just
west of Sao Hill forest reserve and traverses the whole Project area from
the south-west to the north-east. The altitude varies between 1,800 and
2,000 m.
5.        Climate.  The mean annual rainfall is around 1,000 mm, with an un-
interrupted rainy season from December to April and a prolonged dry season
from June to December; the dry season constitutes the most serious limiting
factor for forestry. Temperatures fluctuate between annual average maxima of
23 C and average minima of 10 C, reaching almost freezing point in mid-winter,
(June-August). Frosts are not unknown at higher elevations, especially in
valley bottoms. The prevailing winds are from the south-west during the
dry season and from the north-east during the rainy season.
6.        Soils.  From a preliminary general soil survey of the Project
area (carried out by Dr. N. Nykuist in 1975), the following general observa-
tions may be made:
(a) there is no serious problem of compactness and no real
iron pans have been found;
(b) the texture is generally very similar all over the area
and most soils may be classified as sandy clay loams;
(c) the color of the soils varies from red to yellowish
brown;
(d) the pH varies mostly with depth, but is usually between
5.5 and 6;
(e) the values of specific conductivity are generally very
low.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1.        The Project costs presented in Table 1 are based on March 1976
prices. Costs are mainly related to the establishment of pulpwood planta-
tions over about 16,000 ha. Other costs include the maintenance of pre-
Project pulpwood plantations (about 9,000 ha), the maintenance of pre-Proj-
ect sawlog plantations (2,500 ha), and the replanting of clear-felled sawlog
areas (330 ha). Labor and equipment requirements are based, as far as possi-
ble, on past experience in the Project area, supplemented where necessary by
experience from similar projects in East Africa.
2.        A summary of manpower requirements is given in Annex 2, Table 4.
The average number of laborers employed under the Project would increase
gradually from 325 in the first year to 800 in the fifth year. Salaries
and wages have been based on current Government levels and include annual
and sick leave benefits (except in the case of casual labor, who are not
entitled to them), and a 5% employer's contribution to the National Provi-
dent Fund. The weighted daily rate for labor is T Sh 16.50, calculated on
the basis of a rate of T Sh 18.90 for skilled and permanent labor (a third
of the total force) and of a rate of T Sh 15.35 for unskilled labor (two
thirds of the total force). A man-year is assumed to consist of 250 work-
ing man-days.
3.        A summary of productivity coefficient and operational costs is
given in Table 2 and a summary of administration and overhead costs is given
in Table 3.
4.        Equipment costs are based on quoted prices in Tanzania, exclusive
of import duties and sales taxes. Import duties and sales taxes are, how-
ever, included in the prices of fuels.
5.        All operations including civil works such as the construction of
buildings, housing, roads and tracks would be undertaken by force account.
The vehicle and equipment requirements are given in Annex 2, Table 7.
6.        A 10% physical contingency is included on roads, buildings and
housing, equipment and vehicles. Additional contingencies are provided
for trace elements, fire control and pest and disease control (for de-
tails, see Table 4).
7.        The price escalations used for the Project cost are estimated to
be as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Local Costs                Foreign Costs
Equipment                    Equipment
Year                   Civil Works   and Other   Civil Works    and Other
1976                       20            20             14              10
1977                       18            15             12               8
1978                       15            15             12               8
1979                       15            15             12               8
1980                       10            10             10               7
8.         The Project cost calculated as mentioned above is T Sh 65,303 million
(US$8.1 million). The foreign exchange component is US$2.4 million and the
labor component is about 50% (without contingencies). The yearly Project
costs are shown in Table 1.
March 10, 1976



VA#ZANIA
SA6 FIILL FORESIRY PROJECT
Sosnary of Project Costs
(T Sh '000)
Year I                              Tsar 2                              -rIYes? 4                                                   ------Yea-                                     ttl  Yar5
Local     Foreign      Total        Local     Foreign      Total        Local     Foreign     Total        Local      Foeign      Total        Local      Foeign       Total       Local      Foreign
Affore-tati-n
(inc. fire p-otection)
A.  Plp..ood WYC
S:r-eys                               65          8           73          65          8           73          65          8          73           65         8           73           65          8          73          325           40       365
Nisroerioe                           544         62          606         828         82          910       1,097        116       1,213        1,645       175        1,820        i,645        175       1,820        5,759          6io     6,369
Gro-nd Freparation                   160         38          198         240         58          298         321         76         397          48o       114          594          480        114         594        1,681          4oo     2,081
Planting A ReplaIng Fail.res         258          7          265         381         11          392         504         17         521          751        24          775          751         24         775        2,645           83     2,728
Weeling                              274         36          310         295         38          333         432         56         488          589         76         665          826        107          933       2,4i6          313      1,729
Fire Protection                      101         28          129         108         31          139         123         34         157          14o        40          180          160         4o         200          632          173       805
teplanting and Pruning               148        20         168           190        25          215           70                     7                                  104           95        12          107         55            78        673
Sai l1,550  199        1,749                    253        2,360       2,612        31        2,928        3,742        449       4,211        4,022        480        4,502      i4,453        1,f 97    15,750
' resl Roads
Nen Access Roads                     205         39          244                                  -          -                              -          -                 -            -          -           -           205           39       244
New Plaptation Roads                  95         35          130         146         55         201          190         70         260          286       106          392          286        106          3,        1,003          37.     1,375
Real Maintenance                      i6         12           28          19         16           35          24         20          44           29        24           53           37         30           7          125          102       227
Sub-total                     316         86         402          165         71         236          214        90          304          315       130          445          323       136          459        1,333         513      1,846
F oject Managenent
Administration and Overheads       1,026        230        1,256       1,118        251       1,369        i,166        263       1,429        i,i66       263        1,429        i,166        263       1,429        5,642        1,270     6,912
Buildings an-  Housing             3.267        562        3,829       2.074        357       2,431      _      -                    _            _         _            -            _          _            -        5341           919     6 260
Sub-total                   4,293       792       5             3,192       600        3,           1,166       263        1,429       1,166        263        1,429       1,166        263        1,429       10,983       2,1 Q     13,172
Equipment and Vehicles                    552     2,972        3,524           75       391          466           33       196          229         212      i,14       1,366           29        149          178         901        4,861      5,763
Research, Trials and Training
Research and Trials                   83          9           9,2         41          5           46          73          9          82           69         9           78           67          8          75          333           4o       373
Training                               -        713          713          -         713         73            -        713          713           -        713          713           -         713         713           -         3 .565    3,565
Sub-total                      83       722          895           41       718          759           73       722          795          69        722         791           67        722          78F          333       3,605      393
Studies
Aerial Phstography                     -         -            -           -          -            -           -         -            -            -        309          309           -          -           -            -           309       309
W-er Study far Pulpeill               59        880          939          -          -            -           -          -           -            -         -            -            -         -            -            59         880        939
Escarp-ent Road Study                 -          -            -           56        376         432           -         -            -            _         _            _            _          _           _            56          376       432
Sub-total                      59       880           939         56        376         432            -         -            -           -         309         39            -          -                       115        1,565      1,680
Total                       f RS9      5.651       12 Sos      5,636,    2.417        8,053         4.098     1,587       5,685        5,524      3.027       8,551        5,607      1,749        7,356      27.718       14.431    42.149
Co-tingemcies
Physical Contingence s               527        429          956         344        149         493          185       133          318.        234        253         4487         234        178          412        1,524       1,142      2,666
Price Contisgeuc-s/                1,401       633        2,034           63         5                     2,46 4      4958       22956       4,481      1,172         73         5996         96         6,964       16,702       3,786    20,488
RuR-icial                   1,928     1,062        2,990        3,607       667        3,274       26                     3,27          ,15       1425        6 0          1,2308,226                                       4,928    23,75
Sub-tot.1                                 3 114                   A2         3 2N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,4                                               1,24          492   3,5
Total Pro,ject Cost         9,76I     6,713       15,494        8,243     3,084       11.327       6,744      2,215       8,959       10,339      4,452      14,791       11,837      2,895      14.732       4i 544 i     1t, s35    65.303
Ca/ clculated at 10% or roads, building, and housing, equipmest and vehicles, plus the items detailed in Annex 3,  rable 4   (trace slsmenta, fire costrol, pest and di.sses control).
2   Calculated a. shown in Anner 3, .



ANNEX 3
Table 2
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT_
Summary of Assumed ProductivitvySoefficient and Operation Costs-
Operation                            Output                 Rate           Operation Cost
(T.sh/Man-day)          (T.sh)
Nursery: transplant production   7 man-days/1,000            16.50            116/1,000
Hand clearing, planting area    30 man-days/ha.                "              495/ha.
Burning trash                      4    "                      "               66/ha.
Planting                           7    "                                     116/ha.
Plant transport                    1    "                                      16/ha.
Hand weeding, year 2               8    "                      "              132/ha.
Pruning, fire protection          15    "                                     248/ha.
Strip ploughing, 65 hp
wheeled tractor                  2 hrs/ha.                 24/hr?1           48/ha.
Firebreak construction,
150 hp motor grader              2 hrs/km                  80/hr2/          160/km
Road construction, 150 hp
motor grader                                                     2/
Primary                       16 hrs/km                  80/hr-         1,280/km
Secondary                     14 hrs/km                                 1,120/km
Tracks                         8 hrs/km                                   640/km
Vehicle Operating Costs
-4-wheel drive pick-up                                                               2/
(landrover)                                                                1.60/km -
Light pick-up                                                                0.80/
3/4-ton pick-up                                                              1.10/
7-ton truck                                                                  2.00/ "
7-ton tipper truck                                                           2.00/ "
Fuel Costs
Diesel                                                                       2.33/liter
(duty and tax 0.70/liter)
Petrol (gasoline)                                                            3.43/liter
(duty and tax 1.23/liter)
Oil, lubricating                                                             5.58/liter
(duty and tax 0.80/liter)
1/ As at September 1975 and not adjusted to base-line costs (March 1976).
2/ Excluding depreciation and operator's wages.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Administration and Overhead Costs
Project Year
1         2         3        4         5
----------------(Tsh'000)-----________-___
Staff Salariesl/                            665       665       665       665       665
Leave Travel:
Tsh. 250/year for staff grades             7         7         7         7         7
100/ "    "  Op. service                  3        3         3         3         3
Duty Travel:
Senior staff-200 days/year at Tsh.40   8            8         8         8         8
Junior staff-200 days/year at Tsh.25   5             5         5         5         5
Sub-totals                         688       688       688       688       688
Supervision/Administration Vehicle
Running Costs            km/year Tsh/km
1 saloon car             20,000    1.1   22          22       22        22        22
7 4-WD pick-ups         120,000    1.6  192        192       192       192       192
2 3/4-ton  "             40,000    1.1   44         44        44        44        44
3 light    "             60,000    0.8   48         48        48        48        48
1 7-ton truck, general 20,000    2.0   40            40       40        40         40
1 7-ton truck, labor
transport              25,000    2.0   50         50        50        50        50
Sub-totals                         396       396       396       396       396
2/
Maintenance of Buildings2                    18       107       163       163       163
Water supplies and station upkeep            32        48        48        48        48
General office expenses                      40        40        40        40        40
Sub-totals                          90       195       251       251       251
Total Costs (September 1975)  1,174    1,279    1,335    1,335    1,335
Allowance Price Contingency (March 1976) 82            90        94        94        94
T~'o'a1 n'osts f'tarc! 1''^'     1,256    1,369    1,429    1,429    1j429
1/ The salaries of the 2 expatriate specialists (Tsh 713,000 p.a.) are not included
here, but under Research and Training.
2/ 2% of capital costs.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Specific Physical Contingencies
A.        Trace Elements.  There is a possibility that the soil surveys to
be undertaken by the Project in the high elevation extension areas may indicate
a trace element deficiency. A contingency is therefore included on the basis
that 20% of the extension areas to be planted in years 3, 4 and 5 may require
trace elements at an application rate of 20 kg/ha. and estimated delivered cost
of chemicals of Tsh 8,000/ton. Estimated costs are:
20 kg trace element at Tsh 8,000/ton                 Tsh 160/ha.
Application by hand labor at 6 man-days/ha.           It 100/ha.
Tools for application                                 "    5/ha.
Total                                      Tsh 265/ha.
The areas provided for are:
Project Year
3        4        5
--- (Hectares)----
20% of extension planting area   300        450      600
B.        Fire Control.  Because of the element of uncertainty in forecasting
the extent of the fire hazard on the basis of scarce climatic data relating to
dry season and wind velocities, and because many of the neighboring farmers are
developing new cultivation areas as a consequence of village resettlement and
may inadvertently start grassland fires in the process of clearing new land, it
is considered prudent to include a contingency for fire control costs on the
basis of 20% of the calculated annual running costs.
C.        Pest and Disease Control. No significant outbreaks of pests or disease
have occurred in the plantations of Pinus patula and P. elliottii at Sao Hill and
none are expected. It is possible, however that minor problems could occur which
would require remedial treatment. Provision is therefore included for protection
treatments on the basis of T Sh 160,000 per year over the Project period.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
us s '000
IDA Fiscal Year                IDA Credit            Balance of
and Quarter            in Quarter  Cumulative          Credit
1976/77
September 30/ b/         _                           7,000
December 31                                           7,000
March 31                                              7,000
June 30                150           150             7,000
1977/i8
September 30           200           350             6,650
December 31             300          650              6,350
March 31                400        1,050              5,950
June  30               200         1,250             5,750
1978/79
September 30           200         1,450             5,550
December 31             300        1,750              5,250
March 31                100        1,850              5,150
June 30                100         1,950             5,050
-1979/80
September 30           200         2,150             4,850
December 31             400        2,550              4,450
March 31                300        2,850              4,150
June                    300        3,150              3,850
1980/81
September 30           300         3,450             3,550
December 31             550        4,000              3,000
March 31                400        4,400              2,600
June 30c               40C        4,800              2,200
1981/82
September 30           500         5,300              1,700
December 31             600        5,900              1,100
March 31                600        6,500                500
June 30                 sQO.       7,000                -
a/ Estimated quarter of signing of credit agreement.
b/  Estimated quarter of credit effectiveness.
c/ Estimated quarter of Project completion.



TAN IASA
SAO HILL FOESTRY PB,DdECT
ImPlerentrtio- Schedvi e
19 7 51 9 7 6                                     19 7                         77  1    7 8L                     1 9              a 0
I     11   III   IV      I     II   III   IV      I    II    III  IV            I_  11  II IV             II          IV TV       I1      III   IV      I    II      III IV
Oaattnis of rotenston ares_
So-io--oonosic study
PuIlplll f.asbi11ty atudy report
Maintemrnt  of pra-pro.ort planotttoca               _  _  _   _   _  _   _
POStphasae I-                                                                                    -     -     -                ---                                                        -     -
Employsent of Senior Staff                                                   e f-EtiS    Srt_
- Projert M4r                                                       - _         - _          - _   _            -                                           _
t- silftuzaltW fFt/orest -C.aot
- Romd.Worka!  Iaglner En                                                              _     _      _    =            _     _      =
- ?Iftacial, CogtrollsO                                                                                                               
Constructina of boil4aW           -_                                         -    ,                                                                  -_
Conetruction of new acas. roads                                       _           _ =
coC.at-ct1ontof nn-rry & village   new  -                                                           _                 -     _          _
!-_it*tiO-           del  cry   doS  ery
*1-   2 Xt ~            ~      - I.. aHf.rar..Oi 4t55 I                                                                    at  te              -                        t n               _
-for read. & sea                                           nd     r                                                                     tne
!  BtAtrSt; l l l             41    <     _ l    l l                                                      r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dl vary               
Pulprood Working Clrf! l|    |aLm                          |      |     |                  1 
I N.a PlantM a -   S        ill  as           -L P I MEAL                                                                                        LP 1A  cL
upIand eXtOsn .. Lres 
F.p s Prot-n                                                              -                   30F  ha ha                                           0                     E 30  h.     _
Road Coru*tcrtion & Hal.teasnos                                                         -     -     -     -                                                  -                                                 - _  _
Scurosya                                      U                                                  - - - - -  ____                                                                                                        - t-
Wat.r Availgbility SI]dy for Purlpill
Ea-crpet Ro0d Engineerirz Study
Aerial Photogrsphy
Fertti1lor Trial&                -        *1 a10                                                                                                                           10a                      lo10  a
Lov-eotenretof TrIals]                                                                                                  10  a1  ha                                         1   a                     5  a
Lov-extension Pilot PlantatIons                                                                                         _                        20  a. 20                                           0
Constr.ction. of Pulpaill  (65.,000 TPA)       |                                         |
5 0   illng Oporatlona                                                          - J
S-wloy Working Circle - pruoftg
r - c lmfelling
-r.plaotissg]                                                                                L         ~          8                                  ~
Project -        1hase 11    1            -
Agenda: F   P-nn
E -uc-lyptis



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Monitoring Indices
Year            1976         1977         1978        1979         1980         1981
Activities                                               Quarter      I II III IV I II III IV   III II IV  I II III IV f II  III   I I II   IV
Main Index
New Plantations - Areas planted, Pine  Sao Hill Reserve                              1,200        1,500        1,500        2,250        1,500
(uplands)          (ha)              Extension Area                                 -           450       1,200        1,950        2,650
Eucalyptus                                          300          300          300          300         300
Other Indices
Staffing
Recruitment of Silviculturist/Forest Economist                                X
Road/Workshop Engineer                                                            X
Financial Controller                                                              X
Procurement of Equipment
Invitation to tenders                                                             X X                                   X
Award of tenders                                                                       X                                   X
Delivery ex-works                                                                          X                                  X
Delivery at site                                                                               X X                              X
Road Construction
New access roads
Forest roads and tracks                                                        4__
Buildings and Housing                                                             e6      T07         0%
Construction of New Village (upland extension)                                            _                 _
Construction of Nursery (upland extension)                                               <__
Fertilizer Trials (uplands) - Area (ha)                                                  10          10           10           10            10
Low-extension Trials - Area (ha)                                                          5          10           15           10             5
Low-extension Pilot Plantations - Area (ha)                                                                       20           20            20
Sawmill - Annual Input, Volume (m3)                                                 15,000       25,000       30,000       30,000        30,000
Area Replanted (ha)                                                                        50           80          100           100
Studies
Water availability for pulpmill study                                               X X
Escarpment road engineering study                                                   X X
Aerial photography                                                                                                            x
Pulpmill
Construction
Start-up                                                                                                                                         x
Phase II
Appraisal                                                                                                                        X
Start-up                                                                                                                                         x



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Organization, Training and Research
Project Organization
1.        The Government's forestry programs and projects are planned and
implemented by the Forest Division (FD) of the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism. The organization of the Forest Division is shown in Chart 1.
2.        The Sao Hill afforestation Project area would be divided into two
main stations - one already established at Sao Hill proper (the existing
forest reserve and headquarters), and a second station to be set up in the
high elevation extension areas. The low extension area eventually would have
a third station. Each main station would be subdivided into two sub-stations,
which would eventually have plantation areas of some 10,000 ha each.
3.        The overall Project would be organized as shown in Chart 2.  Pro-
ject activities would be directed by a Project Manager stationed at Sao Hill,
who would be responsible to the Director of Forestry. The Project Manager's
duties would consist of: (a) overall responsibility for the physical execu-
tion and administration of the Project; (b) improvement of silvicultural
methods; and (c) preparation and execution of budget and cost control data
for the Project plantations. He would be assisted by two internationally
recruited specialists - a Silviculturalist/Forest Economist and a Roads/
Mechanical Engineer, both of whom would have managerial responsibilities.
Draft terms of reference for both specialists are given in Appendix 1. The
Roads/Mechanical Engineer would be assisted by a Mechanical Assistant coun-
terpart staff who would be trained under the Project.
4.        A Financial Controller directly responsible to the Project Man-
ager for all Project accounts, cost control and procurement would also be
provided for under the Project.
Training
5.        The Forest Division has developed a plantation target of some 3,000
ha in 1975/76, which is considerably higher than the 630 ha actually planted
in 1974/75. Given that the FD is now understaffed due to the fact that a
large proportion of their professionally and technically qualified and expe-
rienced personnel have been seconded to Regions and Districts as adminis-
trators, it is extremely doubtful that this target can be reached 1/. This
1/   This evaluation has been reflected in the Project plantation program
for 1976/77, which provides for a total planted area of some 1,500 ha
in that year, with provision for a gradual build-up in subsequent pe-
riods.



ANNEX 5
Page  2
situation is, however, expected to improve over the next five years. For
example, although the FD had only 19 professionally trained officers in
1975, six more were expected to graduate of the Faculty of Agriculture and
Forestry in Morogoro at the end of the year, 11 in 1976, and 18 in 1977.
In addition, some 13 foresters are now being trained in Hungary, and are
expected to graduate in 1978. Altogether some 91 additional professional
foresters should have qualified by 1980, which should greatly alleviate the
present staff constraints; for many years there will, however, continue to
be a high proportion of rather inexperienced officers. Finally, the FD has
a long-established training center at Olmotonyi for those in assistant for-
ester and forester grades, and these facilities are now being expanded for
vocational training. It is proposed that by 1980 supplementary training
would be provided for 100 foresters of diploma standard and 450 assistant
foresters of certificate standard together with refresher courses for assis-
tant foresters and foresters.
Research
6.        The research section of the FD is divided into two sub-sections -
silviculture and utilization. The silviculture sub-section carries out
research, inter alia, in genetics, forest protection (entomology, pathol-
ogy and fire protection), afforestation problems, plantation management,
soil conservation, arboreta and trial plots, statistics, etc. The ser-
vices of this research section would be available to the Project. In
addition, Tanzania is a member of EAAFRO (the East African Agriculture
and Forestry Research Organization) which would also be able to offer
assistance. Appendix 2 provides detailed information on research and
trials, including that research which would be undertaken as part of the
Project.
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZAN IA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Specialists
1.        The Silviculturist/Forest Economist would:
(a) be responsible to the Project Manager;
(b) assist in the planning and implementation of the plantation
and research programs and in the carrying out of all silvi-
cultural operations from the nursery to the final crop;
(c) assist in forest mensuration;
(d) assist in the setting up of proper plantation records and of
a costing system;
(e) assist in all management, administrative, budgetary, economic
and financial matters;
(f) assist in the selection of technical forestry staff;
(g) be responsible for on-the-job training of technical forestry
personnel and review of the labor and staff situation;
(h) be responsible for the cost-benefit analysis of the planta-
tion program;
(i) be responsible for the monitoring of Project indices;
(j) prepare a planning concept and an implementation schedule for
the second phase project.
Qualifications Required. He would:
(a) have a University degree or equivalent in forestry and
preferably in economics;
(b) have not less than 8 years experience in softwood plantation
work, including nursery practice and all silvicultural opera-
tions, with about 5 years such experience in the tropics;
(c) have at least 5 years experience in the management of a
large forestry project or operation;
(d) have knowledge of modern planning techniques.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
2.        The Roads/Mechanical Engineer would:
(a)  be responsible to the Project Manager;
(b)  plan and execute the construction and maintenance of all Pro-
ject access and forest roads and tracks;
(c)  assist in the selection and procurement of road construction
machinery, tools and supplies, and of suitable Project equip-
ment and vehicles, including workshop equipment and spare
parts;
(d)  be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all Project
equipment and vehicles;
(e)  be responsible for adopting proper safety procedures in all
aspects of road construction and workshop operations;
(f)  set up proper work records and costing systems;
(g)  be responsible for the preparation of road and workshop budgets;
(h)  be responsible for on-the-job training of road and workshop
engineers, foremen and mechanics.
Qualifications required would:
(a)  preferably be a member of a recognized institute of civil
engineers and/or have a University degree or equivalent
in mechanical engineering;
(b)  have not less than 8 years experience, particularly in road
construction work, and be technically proficient in:
(i)  equipment utilization;
(ii)  road layout;
(iii)  evaluation of soil types, and their proper use as
road construction material;
(iv)   drainage characteristics, and design of drainage
structures;
(v)   short and long term work planning and machine time
scheduling; and
(vi)   road maintenance and costing;



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) have at least 5 years management experience in roads construc-
tion and maintenance and repair of road construction machinery,
equipment and vehicles;
(d) be able to train in maintenance and repair procedures;
(e) have experience in:
(i) setting up simple but complete workshop facilities;
(ii) setting up simple but flexible spare part procure-
ment and distribution systems;
(f) have worked in tropical countries.
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Research and Trials
A. High Elevation Areas
Research and Trials
1.        All research for the Sao Hill high elevation areas would be con-
ducted by the existing Forest Division research staff. The research pro-
gram would be under the direct management of the Project Manager. He would
be assisted by an Assistant Forester (Research) stationed in the low eleva-
tion area. The main needs are:
(a) Genetic improvement of Pinus patula. P. patula responds well
to selective breeding and is already included in the EAAFRO-
coordinated tree breeding project. More selection should be
made by the tree breeder at Sao Hill and progency tests should
be initiated in Sao Hill proper and in the extension areas.
Improved seed should be included from seed stands and seed
orchards in neighboring countries, particularly Malawi. Mean-
while, seed collection at Sao Hill should be made only from
open-pollinated seed trees at first, and later from selected
plus trees. The preliminary identification of seed trees
should be made by the local staff and confirmed by the seeds
officer from Lushoto until the local staff become proficient
in this task. The best seed trees can then be considered by
the tree breeder for inclusion in the breeding program (plus
trees). No special provision has been made under the Project
for seed collection and breeding.
(b) Species and provenance trials. Apart from P. patula, which
should receive the most attention, the following Pine species
should also be investigated: P. elliottii, P. taeda, P. kesiya
and P. pseudostrobus.  Provenance trials of these four species
should be carried out. Good strains of P. taeda and P. kesiya
from neighboring countries (particularly Zambia, Malawi and
possibly Madagascar) might be found to produce higher yields
than P. elliottii and might eventually replace it. No special
provision is made in the Project for these trials.
(c) Establishment and cultural techniques. Experience indicates
that improved survival and productivity in the Project planta-
tions could be obtained by research into nursery techniques
(particularly potting media), plant size, planting time, ground



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
preparation and post-planting culture (especially weeding in
the first two years). No special provision is made in the
Project for this research.
(d) Fertilizer trials. Though it is not believed at present that
fertilization is generally required in the Sao Hill area, small
scale trials are considered essential to determine the growth
response to fertilizers and to measure their economic benefits
both in Sao Hill proper and in the extension areas. If the
results of these trials show that fertilization is an economic
proposition, the technique could be incorporated in subsequent
phases of the program. The trials would be conducted over
a 5-year period, using different fertilizer mixtures and
application rates. Provision would be made in the Project
for trials over 10 ha per year in replicated blocks.
(e) Spacing and thinning trials. The effect of spacing and thin-
ning has not yet been fully investigated at Sao Hill. The
Forest Division (G. Frederiksson) has established a spacing
trial in P. patula and P. elliottii for the 1975 plantations
using 4 replications of 5 initial stockings (1,000, 1,690,
2,890, 4,390 and 7,300 s.p.h.) in 0.1 ha plots. A thinning
trial with 4 replications of 4 treatments is also planned in
1976 P. patula plantations. Such trials should be followed
up and repeated. Proper trials of "correlated curve trend"
(C.C.T.) plots might also be envisaged; they would yield use-
ful information on optimal spacings. However, no thinning is
envisaged in the pulpwood working circle on a 15-year rotation.
B. Low Elevation Areas
2.        Research specifically related to low elevation areas is also
required. The main needs are:
(a) Species and provenance trials. Small, unreplicated plots of
100 trees each of 4 pine species (P. caribaea, P. elliottii,
P. kesiya and P. patula) were laid out in 5 low elevation sites
between 1965 and 1967. The results are very variable and can-
not be utilized, but they do show that all 4 species can grow
rather satisfactorily on those sites. In addition to pines,
various species of eucalyptus and possibly Gmelina arborea
should also be tried. Among the pines, the following species
and varieties are suggested for trial: Pinus caribaea (varie-
ties hondurensis, bahamensis and caribaea), P. kesiya (several
provenances; seed sources: Zambia and Madagascar), P. elliottii,
P. oocarpa, and also possibly P. cubensis, P. occidentalis
and P. pseudostrobus. As relatively small numbers of plants



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
are involved, and in order to benefit from the best nursery
treatment, the plants should be raised at the Sao Hill nursery
and transported to the planting sites below. Each separate
trial should receive the best possible treatment, with complete
ground preparation (by ploughing, if possible) and weeding
three times a year for 2 years, with fencing and close super-
vision.   Provision has been made in the Project for these
trials.
Pilot Plantations
3.        Using the current methods employed at Sao Hill, pilot plantations
would be established from year 3 onward using the best recognized techniques
and seed sources. Changes would be made thereafter as and when more informa-
tion and experience become available. Provision has been made in the Project
for this program.



ANNEX 5
TANZANIA                             Appendix 2
Tables 1-3
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 1:  Areas (ha) for High Elevation Fertilizer Trials
Y e a r
Trials         1        2        3         4         5   Total
Mixtures      10       10       10        10        10     50
Rate of
Application
Time of
Application
Frequency of
Application
Table 2: Areas (ha) For Low Elevation Species Provenance Trial
Program
Y e a r
Species       1         2         3        4         5    Total
Pine           3        3         3        -         -        9
Eucalyptus    2         2         2        -         -        6
Maintenance (3 weedings for two years)
Pine          -         3         6        6         3      18
Eucalyptus    -         2         4        4         2      12
Table 3: Schedule of Areas (ha) for Pilot Plantation Establishment
and Maintenance at Low Elevations
.         ~~~Y e a r
Species       1         2         3        4         5     Total
Planting
Pine           -        -        10       10        10        30
Eucalyptus    -         -        10       10        10        30
Total         -         -        20       20        20        60
Maintenance
Pine           -        -         -       10        20        30
Eucalyptus    -         -         -       10        20        30
Total          -        -         -       20        40        60



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Organigram of Forest kivision
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             I
Prime Minister's                         Minipgsurvy,o Nandra  Feourcest  eeomn             eerhTann
Sectionl            Inventory                                     r nindstion
Administrations                                           S
-            /                                                     [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Administration 
I                /                 ~~~~~~~~~Sectoral P1lanning
Regional Natural Resources   /Section,
Forest Officers
BeekleepingSurlvey and1          ForestiDev'elopment    ResLarch           Traiining
Beketiong           Inventory         and Management          Section           Section
District AdministrationsSetoScin
Forest Officers
I                                      m1
Softwood          Harwood             Catchment
Plantations        Plantations           Forests
Sub-section        Sub-section         Sub-section
Project Officers in charge of
specific project areas



ANNEX 5
Chart 2
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Organization Chart
Project Manager
(professional forester)
Silviculturist/                                Roads/Mechanical
Forest Economist*                                 Engineer*
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Survey, Planning             Finance              Roads/Workshop
and Research Sectioni         Section               Section
r                      ____                  _
High-elevation             Sao Hill              (low-elevation
extension                pre-existing             extension)
reserves                     I
prof essional                                    (professional
forester                                          forester)
foresters                foresters
(Phase 2)
assistant foresters    assistant foresters
field assistants         field assistants
* Internationally-recruited specialists.



ANNEX 6
Page I
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Studies
1.        The Proiect would include provision for three types of studies:
(a) a water availability study for the proposed pulp and paper
mill near the Fricks Bridge on the Kigogo-Ruaha river
(Appendix 1);
(b) a road engineering study for the proposed road between
Mufindi and the proposed pulp and paper mill (Appendix
2); and
(c) aerial photography of the areas to be planted both under
the proposed Project as well as under a possible second
stage project.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill
Draft Terms of Reference for the Water Availability Study
A. Introduction
1.        The construction of a pulp and paper mill in Iringa District beneath
the Mufindi escarpment (near the Fricks Bridge on the Kigogo-Ruaha river) is
being investigated. 1/ A full feasibility study by Jaakko Poyry and Co. (JP)
for an initial mill of 65,000 TPA has just been completed.
2.        The mill site has been chosen on the basis of water availability,
proximity to pulpwood plantations and accessibility to road/rail transport.
Pulpwood plantations are being expanded at an accelerated rate to provide
a sustained pulpwood supply for the assumed initial mill capacity of some
65,000 TPA and a subsequent possible expansion of the mill capacity to some
180,000 TPA. The probable program for pulpwood plantations and pulp and paper
production is:
Pulpwood Plantations             Pulp/Paper Mill
1976 - 1980         Establishment of total of          Final design and
some 16,000 hectares.             initial construction.
1981 - 1985         Planting of additional             Start up of 65,000
17,500 hectares.                  TPA mill.
1986 - 1990         Planting of additional
18,000 hectares.
1990 - 1995                                            Expansion of mill
capacity to 180,000
TPA.
The financing of plantations from 1981 onwards would be conditional on the
subsequent expansion of the mill and the extent of the area would be related
to it.
1/   Map Ref. Lat. 084400 Long. 351800.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page  2
3.        Studies carried out by the consultants (JP) and the National De-
velopment Corporation of Tanzania (NDC) indicate that there is sufficient
water for both production requirements and satisfactory effluent disposal
for the initial 65,000 TPA mill. However, there is some concern that suf-
ficient water may not be available to allow for future expansion, as - par-
ticularly with respect to effluent disposal for which larger volumes are
normally required - the natural flow of the Kigogo-Ruaha might present
difficulties. There is also the possibility that the natural flow may be
below production requirements of a 180,000 TPA mill in years of abnormally
low minimum flow. One solution to these potential problems was put forward
in several earlier preliminary studies (Sandwell 1964 and a FAO/ CP prepara-
tion report of June 5, 1974); these studies indicated that the construction
of a dam on the Kigogo-Ruaha river near the Fricks Bridge offers a possible
solution to the problem of water availability. However, it appears that the
best site for such a dam 1/ is now not available due to the fact that the
new TAZARA has since been built on a line which occupies the site and at
a level which lies for some 2 or 3 km at 40 or 60 ft below the full supply
water levels of the two most economical sizes of the dam. If a dam were
to be found the best alternative solution, a field investigation would be
needed to identify the optimum remaining available site in the hope that
alterations to the railway could be avoided.
4.        However, several other possibilities have been suggested which
might pose more practical alternatives; these include:
(a) extensive lagooning of effluent to reduce water requirement
for effluent disposal;
(b) piping of fresh water from a minor river at the foot
of the escarpment adjacent to the proposed escarpment
road outlet to upstream of mill on Kigogo-Ruaha;
(c) construction of an effluent pipeline to carry some or
all of the effluent for discharge into the river some
20 km downstream below a point where a tributary joins
the river; and
(d) secondary and tertiary treatment of effluent to permit
reuse within the plant.
1/   The FAO/CP report stated that the Rufiji Basin Survey team located two
dam sites, Msana and Lugala, on the Kigogo-Ruaha river near the Fricks
Bridge. The plans were published with the report but were left with
the Government. Information is that they have since been lost in a
fire. It appears probable, however, that the dams must have been
sited in the area adjacent to coordinates 756/9035 on the map.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 3
5.        In light of the alternatives available, a specific detailed study
would be undertaken to evaluate water availability for and water usage re-
quirements of the proposed pulpmill development; the study would evaluate:
(a)  data on flows, including relevant tributaries of the
Kigogo-Ruaha;
(b)  assessment of other claims;
(c)  possibility of dam construction and associated
effects on the Tazara;
(d)  possibility of a transmission pipeline from another
river for fresh water in the event that a dam is not
feasible; and
(e)  evaluation of the proposed water usage, effluent
treatment and disposal and water reuse in the
initial pulpmill and subsequent expanded pulpmill,
including lagooning and piping effluent for discharge
downstream.
B. Draft Terms of Reference for the Proposed Water Availability Study
6.        Provision would be included under the Project for a comprehen-
sive water availability study to be undertaken by a firm of experts. This
study would inter alia concentrate on: water supply and quality of water
available; present and future water usage; methods of increasing water avail-
ability; mill water requirements and problems of effluent disposal; and costs
of alternative methods of increasing water availability. This study would be
carried out in Project year 1, and specific areas of interest are detailed
below:
I.   Water Supply and Quality
(a)  Assemble data on quantity, quality, distribution and
frequency of occurrence of streams in the vicinity of
the proposed pulpmill site which may be used to supply
the mill.
(b)  Critically examine data for consistency and formulate
assessments of annual flows and seasonal flows to show
flows over discrete periods covering:



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
(i) minimum flows;
(ii) maximum flows;
(iii) between season flows; and
(iv) annual flows.
(c)  Make recommendations for any continuing flow recording which may be
necessary.
(d)  Carry out any necessary tests and formulate an assessment of quality
with respect to:
(i)  the total concentration of dissolved solids;
(ii) the relative proportions of specific constituents
which are of importance to the mill's operations
and to other users; and
(iii) the concentration of suspended materials.
(e)  Make recommendations for any continuing recording and analysis which
may be necessary.
II. Water Usage
(a)  Assemble data on present water usage for domestic, agricultural
and industrial uses.
(b)  Formulate assessments of future usage for these purposes, taking
account of development plans for the area and the tolerance of these
uses in relation to mill effluent discharge into the surface water.
(c)  In consultation with the consultants (JP) and NDC, assemble data
on water requirements for the initial mill of 65,000 tons/year
and for the proposed expanded mill of 180,000 tons/year, both for
process water and for securing a satisfactory effluent dilution
level.
III. Increasing Water Availability. Subject to surface water being insuffi-
cient for mill and other requirements:
(a)  Assemble data on possibilities of increasing water availability
to the mill by means of dam construction, reservoir, and transporta-
tion by pipeline.
(b)  Carry out field studies to assess the feasibility of these methods
and formulate assessments of the increase in water availability
which would result.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 5
(c) Prepare preliminary cost estimates for these alternatives and
select the optimum for developing firm proposals.
(d) Carry out field surveys and prepare maps of the alternative
selected.
(e) Prepare preliminary plans and cost estimates of the alternative
selected.
IV. Mill Requirements and Effluent Disposal
(a) Critically examine data of mill requirements and in consultation
with consultants and NDC develop alternatives of water requirements in
relation to:
(i) process (manufacturing) usage;
(ii) water reuse systems;
(iii) effluent treatment systems, including the
possibility of lagooning;
(iv) possibility of discharging effluent downstream
where surface water is greater, including an
assessment of the increased flow.
(b) Evaluate the legal provisions for effluent disposal and, in
consultation with the Tanzania sanitary authorities, formulate an
assessment of satisfactory standards as these affect the mill.
(c) Prepare preliminary cost estimates of the alternatives of mill
requirements and select the optimum alternative which satisfies
the criteria established for effluent disposal.
(d) Prepare preliminary plans and cost estimates of the alternative
selected.
V.   Cost Comparison
(a) Prepare an analysis of costs of alternatives for increasing water
availability.
(b) Prepare an analysis of costs of alternatives of mill water
usage.
(c) Demonstrate that the selection of the alternatives of water
availability and water usage represents the least cost solution.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Table 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Water Availability Study for Pulp Mill
Foreign Exchange Costs
- - - man months - - -            Costs
(T Sh '000)
Assessment of water availa-        Field   Office   Total
bility and cost estimates
of increasing supply to meet
180,000 pulp mill require-
ments.                               2        3        5
Assessment of water usage,
effluent disposal systems
and cost estimates of alter-
native effluent system8.             2       3         5
Head Office support staff            -       2         2
Totals                       4        8        12
12 man months at US$7,000/month (Tsh56,350/month)                      675
2 economy Class air fares to Tanzania                                   20
Home office costs, report preparation,
copying, communications, etc.                                           30
Sub-Total                                                      725
Local Costa!]
Local air fares, ground transport, supply of maps, etc., and
local staff subsistence.                                                50
Sub-Total (Foreign and Local)                                  775
Contingencies  (Adjustment to 3/76)                                    164
Total Costs                                                    939
1/ These would also include 4 man months of counterpart staff whose
salaries would be paid by Government.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill
Draft Terms_of Reference for the Mufindi Escarpment Road Engineering Study
1.        It is expected that a pulp and paper mill will be constructed
in Iringa region at the bottom of the Mufindi escarpment, about 20 km south
of Mufindi. At the present time there is no existing road between Mufindi
and the chosen mill site, and plans are therefore under way to provide for
the construction of this essential transport link. Although the proposed
mill site is close to the Tazara and will be connected to it by a branch line,
many of the mill supplies (and possibly some of its output) will still have to
be brought in by road.
A. Scope of the Engineering _Stuy
2.        Experts would be employed to carry out an engineering study
of the proposed road; this study is made necessary by the extremely rugged
terrain and the difficulty of construction down the escarpment (which drops
some 660 m between the two points). The experts would be provided with
all available information and reports on the proposed pulp and paper mill,
as well as with available traffic, topographic, hydrological and other data
on the proposed road. The experts would, however, be solely responsible
for the analysis and interpretation of all data received and for the conclu-
sions and recommendations in their reports.
3.        Based on the above information and reports, the experts would:
(a)  carry out further topographical, geotechnical, hydrological and
material surveys necessary for the road engineering;
(b)  establish on site the center line of the selected road alignment
and fully reference same to permit reestablishment of center line;
(c)  locate all bridges and other required drainage work, including
the calculation of waterway openings where necessary, site and
foundation investigations and structural design;
(d) determine availability, quality and location of construction
materials;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2
(e) recommend design standards, taking into account existing
Ministry of Works (MOW) standards, and undertake such engineering
as is required to carry out the works and prepare drawings to
an appropriate scale;
(f) compute quantities of construction items and prepare Bills of
Quantities reflecting same, with estimated unit rates for work
items;
(g) make recommendations for the most practical and economic way of
executing and supervising the work, and prepare any documents
necessary to proceed with it (consultants should contact the
MOW to learn about previous experiences);
(h) prepare detailed estimates of construction costs; and
(i) calculate foreign and local currency costs and tax and duty
elements of local cost, if any.
Once the above preliminary studies had been completed, the experts would
recommend to Government whether or not they felt the road construction work
should be carried out by independent contractors. If they should so recom-
mend, and subject to agreement by Government, the experts would then
prepare bidding documents.
B. Data, Services and Facilities to be Provided by Government
4.        Government would provide the experts with:
(a) all reports on previous studies concerning the Project; and
(b) traffic estimates for the proposed road.
In addition, the Government would, as required, facilitate the consultants'
contacts with Government agencies which might provide information on recent
costs of road construction for various types of roads in Tanzania, or on
any other relevant subject. The Government would also provide free of
charges, 4 man-months of existing staff time, as well as certain facilities to
be defined at negotiations.
C. Timing of Reports Required from the Experts
5.        During year 2 of the proposed Project, the experts would pre-
pare an Inception Report (6 copies) one month after contract agreement, and



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 3
a comprehensive Draft Final Report (6 copies) within 3 months of contract
agreement. After receiving and discussing Government's comments, they
would submit a final version (19 copies), which would include bidding
documents if so agreed; the final version should be submitted within 5
months of contract agreement.
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Table 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Mufindi Escarpment Road Study
Foreign Exchange Costs
- - - man months - - -              Costs
(T Sh '000)
Assessment of alternative           Field   Office   Total
alignments and selection
of most favorable align-
ment.
Specification of road stan-
dard, preparation of engi-
neering plans; assessment
of local construction ma-
terials.
Preparation of cost estimates.   1 1/2    1 1/2         3
Head Office Support Staff                   2           2
Totals                     1 1/2    3 1/2        5
5 man months at US$7,000/month (Tsh.56,350/month).                        282
2 economy class air fares to Tanzania                                      20
Home Office eosts; report preparation, copying,
communications, etc.                                                       20
Sub-Total                                                         322
Local Costs 1/
Local air fares; ground transport; supply of maps etc.
and local staff subsistence.                                               36
Sub-Total (Foreign and Local)                                     358
Contingences  (Adjustment to 3/76)                                         74
Total Costs                                                       432
1/ These would also include 4 man months of counterpart staff,
whose salaries would be paid by Government.



ANNEX 7
Page  1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Yields and Production
A. Yields
High Elevation Areas
1.        Species.  For more than 25 years Pinus patula has been the main
species planted at Sao Hill; as the species has done well on the whole,
there is no reason for any change with respect to Project planting. Other
pine species which have been used include Pinus elliottii, which has done
reasonably well (although it grows more slowly and yields much less than
P. patula), and Pinus radiata, which is seriously affected by needle-blight
and woolly aphid attacks. Many species, particularly of pine and eucalyp-
tus, have been tried in small, unreplicated plots in the Kihanga arboretum
at Sao Hill. Among the most promising of these have been Pinus kesiya, Pinus
taeda and Eucalyptus grandis, which all deserve more extensive trials. It
may well happen, for instance, that Pinus elliottii should gradually be
replaced as the secondary pine species by P. kesiya or P. taeda, or both,
as a means of attaining increased yields. However, at least for the first
phase of the Project, P. patula and P. elliottii should be planted in the
ratio of four to one, although the latter might also include some P. kesiya
or P. taeda. The ideal eucalyptus species for Sao Hill is E. grandis/saligna
(it is difficult to differentiate between these two).
2.        Methods of Yield Estimation.  Using the scanty inventory data
available at the time, the Project preparation report (1974) adopted con-
servative overall mean annual increments, under bark (MAI, u.b.) of 13 m /ha
for Pinus patula and 11 m /ha for Pinus elliottii, both at 15 years, i.e.
the rotation age for pulpwood. However, late in 1974, a 3% area sample of
all the plantations at Sao Hill and adjacent reserves involving 270 ha of
actual plots yielded much more complete and accurate figures which were sub-
stantially higher than the original estimates. The field work was carried
out by the Forestry Division and the data were analyzed by Mr. J. Micksi
using computer programs developed by Professor J.E. Phythian of the Univer-
sity of Dar-es-Salaam. The inventory measured current stock only and did
not include yields from previous thinnings, so that total yields may have
in some cases been underestimated. It should be noted that second rotation
site degrade may occur, although this may be more than offset by selective
genetic improvement.
3.        In the more complete 1974 inventory several plots of 0.04 ha were
randomly located in each compartment; all stem diameters were assessed and
3-5 trees were selected for height measurement with a bias towards the
larger diameters. Volumes were computed from standard volume tables for
P. patula (Ackhurst and Micksi, 1971).  Although a provisional site quality



ANNEX 7
Page 2
classification is available (F.D., 1971), volume estimates were not strati-
fied and no estimates of precision were made. Standing volume under bark per
hectare was regressed against age and an overall quadratic model was devised
that accounted for 87% of the total variation:
Yield = - 4.257 + 176.309 (Age) - 1.6597 (Age)2
(r =   0.934)
4.        This model estimatsd the MAI of total under bark volume of Pinus
patula at 15 years as 23.1 m /ha, which may in fact, as stated above, be a
slight underestimate of total volume; however, some experts, it should be
mentioned, think that it is probably too high already. In any case, a
number of reductions have been made:
(a) 10% to allow for "minimum site" (this takes into account the
great variation in growth rates estimated at Sao Hill and
assumes that all future plantations could by chance be
located on poor sites);
(b) 10% to allow for hazards such as fire, disease, insect attacks
and windthrow;
(c) 10% to allow for logging losses down to an upper stem pulpwood
diameter of 5-7 cm.
The final MAI3of total underbark volume of Pinus patula was, therefore,
taken as 17 m /ha at 15 years in the Sao Hill area generally.
5.     3  A similar exercise for Pinus elliottii at Sao Hill yielded a value
of 11 m /ha at 15 years. As the p5oposed ratio of P. patula to P. elliottii is
4 to 1, a weighted average of 15 m /ha at 15 years may safely be used for pine
in the high elevation areas of Sao Hill. It is impossible to predict yields
for the whole forest until more accurate figures of compartment areas and MAI
curves are obtained. Continuous inventory of permanent sample plots has
been started at Sao Hill and will yield data in the future. Yields may
decrease as drier and poorer sites are eventually planted, but this is
unlikely to occur during the Project period.
Low Elevation Areas
6.        The preliminary soil survey carried out by Dr. N. Nykuist in
1975 found very little evident differentiation in soils over the two main
extension blocks envisaged below the Mufindi escarpment; the soils can all
be classified as sandy clay loams. The altitude varies mostly between
1,200 and 1,500 m, and the rainfall is probably lower than on the plateau.
No large scale plantations will be undertaken in this area during the Project,



ANNEX 7
Page 3
but species and provenance trails as well as pilot plantations will be carried
out. It is expected that yields will be somewhat lower at low elevations
than on the plateau, but no accurate figures exists to support this view
as yet.
B.   Production
7.        Table 1 shows wood requirements in volume and area for sawlogs and
pulpwood, and the area of plantations both existing and required for the
sawmill and the pulp mill. It was assumed that the sawmill would start
operating in 1976 and that the pulp mill would reach full capacity in 1987.
8.        Table 2 gives details of wood availability between 1981 and 1996
for the pulp mill, assuming that it would begin operations in 1981, that it
would produce 65,000 TPA when fully operational (by 1987), and that it
would be expanded in 1993 to reach a full capacity of 180,000 TPA by 1995-96.
February 26, 1976



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Yields and prpduction - Wood Requfrements in Volume
and Area for Sawlogs and Pulpwood, and Area of Plantations
(assuming sawmill starts operating in 1976 and pulpmill in 1981)
Existing Pine Plantations
FOR SAWLOCS1/                                                FOR PULPWOOD                                         (pI 1954-75-9,860 ha: 1975-761.' 00Ih4L
Ares Required for
-Volume Required (000 m3)                   Clearfelling (ha)        Area Replanted      New Area        New Area
2/  Area Req'd3/                                                 Pine                                              Pine (ha)   Pn1pww d (ha)   Sawlos (ha)
Project                  Vol. Req'd    (ha) Clear-                                     From Thinnings   From Clear-                                Sawlog Pulpwood
Phase       Year         (00            felling Only         Total  Euc.  Wattle    and SM Residue   felling               Pine        Euc.         WC.    W.C.        Pine    Euc.       Pine
1976-77          15             50                  _-                                 -         -                                        -         -      1,200      300         -
1977-78          25             80                  _-                         -           -                                 -            50        -      1,950      300         -
I      1978-79           30            100                  _-                         -           -                                 -            80        -      2,700      300        -
1979-80          30            100                  _-                         -           -                                 -           100        -      4,200      300         -
1980-81          30            100                  -      -        -              -              -               -          -           100        -      4,200      300         -
1981-82          60            100 (+100)          115    -        25            10               80             355         -           100        -      2,000   1,000        500
1982-83          60            100 (+100)          175   10        30             15             120             530        70           100       355    2,000   1,000         500
II      1983-84           60            100 (+100)          200   15        30            20              135             600       105           100       530    2,000   1,000         500
1984-85          60            100 (+100)          230   25        30            20              155             690       175           100       600    2,000    1,000        500
1985-86          60            100 (+100)          265   35        30            20              180             800       245           100       690    2,000   1,000         500
1986-87          60            100 (+100)          280   40        30            20              190             845       280           100       800    2,500   1,100           -
1987-88          60            100 (+100)          280   40        30            20              190             845       280           100       870    2,500   1,100           -
III      1988-89           60            100 (+100)          280   40        30            20              190             845       280           100       875    2,500   1,100           -
1989-90          60            100 (+100)          280   40        30            20              190             845       280           100       845    2,500   1,100           -
1990-91          60            100 (+100)          280   40        30            20              190             845       280           100       845     2,500   1,100          -
Totals                                  1,430 (pl 1954-         -     _        _              _               _           7,2(0    1,995          1,230     6,405   37,750  12,000       2,500
1968)          _
1/ 2,500 ha set aside for Sawlog Working Circle.
.2/ One shift from 1976 to 1980; thereafter 2 shifts.
3/ Assuming average yield of 300 m3/ha. (mostly over 20 years old) - Wood for second shift coming from outside (Mbeya).                                                                             in x
4/ Figures based on a production of 65,000 TPA and a ratio of 4.3 m3 of wood/ton pulp, according to Jaakko Poyry's                                                                                   -
feasibility study.
5/ Assuming an average yield of 225 m3/ha. (rotation age - 15 years; mean annual increment - 15 m3/ha.).



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Yields and Production'- Wood Availability for Pulg Mill
Assuming Pulp Mill starts operating in 1981)
Areas of Pine 15 years old & over (ha) - clearfelling only
Balance b.f.        Accruing toll         Total Avail-         Required for              Balance left
at beginning        15 yr old             able during          Pulpmill during           at end of
Year          of year         class during year           year                  year2/                    year
1980-81                                                                                                   4693/
1981-82          469                  995                1,464                   335                    1,129
1982-83        1,129                  825                1,954                   530                    1,424
1983-84        1,424                  801                2,225                   600                    1,625
1984-85        1,625                   -                 1,625                   690                    1,025
1985-86        1,025                  246                1,271                   800                      491
1986-87          471                  708                1,179                   845                      334
1987-88           334                 902                   36                   845                      391
1988-89           391                 863                   54                   845                      409
1989-90           409                 921                1,330                   845                      485
1990-91           485                 630                1,115                   845                      270
1991-92           270              1,500                 1,770                   845                      925
1992-93           925              1,200                 2,125                   845                    1,280
1993-94        1,280               1,950                 3,230                 1,250                    1,980
1994-95        1,980               2,700                 4,080                 1,960                    2,720
1995-96        2,720               4,200                 6,920                 2,600                    4,320
_                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M >1
1/ Taken from Annex 1, Table 1 (Distribution of area by planting years), plus proposed planting program.
2/ Assuming a start-up of 65,000 TPA mill in 1981, and of 180,000 TPA mill in 1993, and a ratio of 4.3 m3
wood/ton of pulp - for details see Table 1.
3/  After setting aside 2,500 ha for Sawlog Working Circle.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill
A. Introduction
1.        The Tanzania Government has expressed its intention to estabish as
soon as possible the first pulp and paper mill in the country. The mill would
be based primarily upon the existing and projected forest plantations in the
Sao Hill area and is intended to provide Tanzania with its expected require-
ments of all the common types of both cultural and industrial paper and
paperboard (except tissue paper, cylinder boards, and fluting paper) in
the mid-1980's.
2.        Feasibility studies have been carried out over the past decade on
various alternative pulp and paper mill projects in Tanzania. The FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Programme published its study in June 1974. The latest studies
were begun in late 1974 under a grant from the Swedish International Develop-
ment Authority (SIDA) by the Finnish firm, Jaakko Poyry & Co. The prospective
technical partner for the project, the Swedish State Pulp and Paper Company
(Aktiebolaget Statens Skogindustrier, ASSI), has provided technical assistance
throughout these studies. The Bank has commented on Poyry's work and has at-
tended report review meetings. On the basis of a preliminary report by Poyry
dated March 24, 1975, a mill site was selected near Mufindi in south central
Tanzania, and the 6 alternatives considered therein were narrowed to 2 cases.
On the basis of an interim report by Poyry, dated June 30, 1975, the Tanzanian
Government, through its National Development Corporation (NDC), selected the
more complex of the 2 remaining alternatives, even though its indicated
financial and economic rates of return were somewhat lower, on the premise
that relative self-sufficiency in paper was the overriding decisive factor.
A final feasibility report by Poyry on the selected project configuration
was completed in February 1976.
B. The Pulp and Paper Mill
Plant Configuration
3.        The plant would be designed to produce a total of 65,000 metric
tons per year (MTPA) of paper and paperboard, which is the upper limit of
what the resource and Poyry's assessment of the local market could support
during the 1980's. This would be produced on two paper machines: one to
produce 40,000 tons per year of unbleached industrial papers and the other
25,000 of bleached cultural papers. The proposed product mix at full capac-
ity would be as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Product                                   Amount (MTPA)
Kraft linerboard                                    14,000
Kraft multiwall sack paper                          18,000
Kraft wrapping paper                                8,000
Subtotal industrial papers                    40,000
Newsprint                                            7,000
Printing and writing papers                         18,000
Subtotal cultural papers                      25,000
Total paper and paperboard                          65,000
Tanzania's requirements of corrugating medium (fluting) and cylinder boards
(grey board and duplex board) would be made in a waste paper-based paper
mill said to be under construction in Dar-es-Salaam, leaving only tissue
paper among the common papers to be imported.
4.        The plant would produce all its requirements of all types of
pulp, includng bleached and unbleached sulphate (kraft) pulp and bleached
and unbleached mechanical pulp (groundwood). It would also recover the
chemicals utilized in its pulping processes, would produce all its bleach-
ing chemicals, and would obtain its energy requirements from fossil fuels.
In general, it would be as self-contained as practical.
5.        The plant would be of too small a scale to compete in the world
market, although it may be able to compete in neighboring countries. How-
ever, the Tanzanian Government is not considering exports and would like to
limit imports to a bare minimum. The mill would be economic mainly because
of the high landed cost of the small quantities of paper and paperboard now
being imported.
Mill Site
6.        The selected site is on a slight elevation in a low population
area about 1 km from the Kigogo-Ruaha river and 50 meters above the planned
water intake. The site would require a 6 km link to the TAZARA and a 20 km
road link from Mufindi down the escarpment. Complete housing and amenities
would also be required.
7.        The minimum recorded flow in the river (1.9 m /s) over a 15 year
period, while ample for plant requirements, may be marginal for the dilution
of effluents. However, there should be enough suitable land available for
oxidation ponding. A dam for water storage in the river above the plant
to equalize flow would be desirable, but might prove impractical (because
it would involve expensive relocation of the TAZARA). Further study is re-
quired to determine the availability of water for a 180,000 ton mill and the



ANNEX 8
Page 3
most economical solution to the effluent disposal problem (such as exten-
sive treatment facilities, an effluent pipeline to a larger river some 40
km away, or some combination of these approaches). If the proposed mill
site should be given up for an alternative site some 40 km away this would
have however little impact on the gazetting of the forest area.
Transport
8.        The mill would be served by the TAZARA, which would bring imported
chemicals and supplies from Dar-es-Salaam, carry the finished product to
Dar-es-Salaam and bring coal from the Songwe-Kiwira field in the southwest
of Tanzania.  The Tanzam highway is also available at a distance of 50 km
to the north, through Mufindi, and 65 km to the west at Makambako. The
main pulpwood supply would be brought by road from the Sao Hill area
through Mufindi and down the proposed escarpment road (Annex 6, Appendix 2).
C. Raw Material Supply
9.        Pulpwood is the principal raw material required by the mill.  The
available and planned pine and eucalyptus plantations in the Sao Hill area,
coupled with the available black wattle from the tannin operations at Njombe,
should suffice for the needs of the mill (see Annex 7).
D. Markets and Prices
10.       The expected market growth as determined by Poyry will be adequate
to absorb the projected buildup of industrial paper production, but the pro-
jected slower growth in cultural paper markets will somewhat restrict capac-
ity utilization for the first few years of operation, unless external markets
are developed for a few years to absorb excess production (para 12). This
subject is more fully discussed in Annex 9.
E. Mill Construction and Management
Management and Training
11.       The prospective technical partners, ASSI, would provide all the
necessary expatriate management and technical personnel for the mill and
its supporting operations (such as logging); it would train Tanzanians in
its plants prior to start-up and in the mill after start-up, with the aim
that Tanzanian staff should take over operation of the mill as rapidly as
is prudent for its success. NDC would be responsible for selecting Tanzan-
ians suitable for the intensive training and eventually managing and oper-
ating the mill and its supporting operations.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Implementation Schedule
12.       Plant start-up has been planned for 1981.  Production is forecast
to build up rapidly from 43% of capacity in 1981 to 92% in 1985. The afore-
mentioned restraint on the cultural paper market would then come into play,
and 100% capacity operation would not be achieved until 1987. Should the
start-up of the mill be delayed a year or two, it would allow for more local
market growth and for a greater margin of safety in the Sao Hill plantations.
F. Capital Cost
13.       Total financing required for the mill is estimated by the IBRD/FAO
CP at T Sh 1,732 million equivalent (US$215 million in March 1976 prices),
with an estimated foreign exchange component of T Sh 1,479 million. 1/ The
costs are summarized below:
Estimated Total Investment
(T Sh million)
Foreign Exchange
Total Cost             Component
Civil Works                                   173                 119
Mill Equipment and Spare Parts                548                 522
Equipment Emplacement                         119                  80
Freight, Site Works, Engineering              139                 114
Administration, Supervision                    65                  45
Initial Working Capital                        43                  37
Base Cost Estimate (1976 prices)             1088                 918
Physical Contingencies                        102                  87
Price Contingencies                           439                 373
Subtotal                                   1629               1378
Interest During Construction                  103                 101
Total Financing Required                     1732                1479
Project Cost in 1976 prices                  1293                1106
14.       A construction schedule which provides for the completion of the
proposed pulp mill in time for start-up in 1981 would require that capital
be available approximately in accordance with the schedule shown below:
1/   Government has not as yet worked out the final arrangements for the
financing of the proposed mill.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Disbursement Schedule /a
(T Sh million)
Working      Interest During /b   Total
Year        Investment            Capital        Construction       Investment
1     1977            31                    -                                 31
2     1978           179                    -                                179
3     1979           387                    -                  1             387
4     1980           346                    -                17              363
5     1981           139                    -                63              202
6     1982            66                   43                22              131
1148                  43                103            1293
/a   In March 1976 prices.
/b   Based on a 60:40 debt/equity ratio.
G. Manufacturing Costs
15.       The estimated manufacturing costs for the 21-year life of the mill
are summarized below:
Manufacturing Cost Estimates
Capacity          Wood       Other      Total
Year          Utilization (%)      Costs      Costs      Costs      Cost/Ton
     T Sh Million-------       T Sh
1     1981               43                14.0       67.0       81.0        2898
2     1982                63               20.0       72.0       92.0        2246
3     1983                72               23.0       75.0       98.0        2094
4     1984                83               27.0       77.0      104.0        1928
5     1985                92               30.0       75.0      105.0        1755
6     1986                95               31.0       74.0      105.0        1700
7     1987                97               31.0       75.0      106.0        1681
8+    1988+              100               31.0       75.0      106.0        1631
16.       The estimates are based on information received from the IBRD/FAO
CP (in March 1976 prices) and assume the mill will start operation at the
beginning of 1981. Full capacity operation would be achieved in the eighth
year.
17.       The requirements of chemicals, other raw materials, fuel and power
have been based on the experience of similar mills in other parts of the



ANNEX 8
Page 6
world. Some would be imported (salt cake, sulfur, sodium-hyposulfite,
resin size, alum), and some would be locally produced and transported
to the mill site (lime stone, sulfuric acid, filler clay, starch, coal).
Bleaching chemicals will be produced on site. Fuel oil would be trans-
ported from the oil refinery in Dar-es-Salaam. Pulpwood requirements
have been based on findings presented elsewhere in this report.
18.       Labor and management estimates are based on levels in similar
mills in the world and on rates of pay applied in similar industrial oper-
ations in Tanzania: they include social costs and fringe benefits. Provi-
sion is made for expatriate staff during the initial operating years and
also later in some key positions. Other fixed costs include provisions
for operating and maintenance materials and overheads.
H. Financial Analysis
19.       The estimated revenues are based on the following net mill
prices (March 1976 prices):
Type of Paper                             Price (US$/ton)
Kraft Liner                                       445
Sack & Wrapping                                   550
Printing & Writing                                777
Newsprint                                         418
Weighted Average Price                        572
20.       The gross earnings, before interest, depreciation and income taxes
would be:
Gross Earnings Estimates
(T Sh million)
Manufacturing        Gross
Year       Utilization(%)        Revenues          Costs             Earnings
1981            43                 128              81.0                47.0
1982            63                 189              92.0                97.0
1983            72                 215              98.0               117.0
1984            83                248              104.0               144.0
1985            92                275              105.0               170.0
1986            95                 284             105.0               179.0
1987            97                 290             106.0               184.0
1988+          100                299              106.0               193.0
21.       A financial rate of return has been calculated based on the above
statement for a period of 25 years (Table 1). The financial return before
taxes is projected at 11%.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
I. Future Expansion of the Mill
22.       Present indications are that market growth will permit the ex-
pansion of the proposed 65,000 MTPA pulp and paper mill to a capacity of
180,000 MTPA by 1993. Forecast rates of growth in demand for the several
types of paper produced by the mill do not vary greatly between types,
so that the relative product mix of the expanded plant could be expected
to remain about the same. Such an expansion would of course require an
accelerated forest plantation program of both coniferous and broad-leaved
species in the required proportions and volumes, to be located as close
to the mill site as possible consistent with maintaining high growth
rates.
23.       The plant expansion, which would generally follow the same con-
figuration as the initial plant, would be constructed during 1990-1993,
beginning operation in 1993 electric power would be available from the
national grid at Mufindi. As a result, the expanded plant would purchase
40% of its electric power requirements, in contrast to the initial plant,
which would necessarily be self-sufficient in electric power generation.
The product mix of the expanded plant at full capacity is expected to be
as follows:
Product                                  Amount (MTPA)
Kraft linerboard                                    40,000
Kraft papers                                        72,000
Subtotal industrial papers                   112,000
Newsprint                                            18,000
Printing and writing papers                         50,000
Subtotal cultural papers                      68,000
Total paper and paperboard                         180,000
24.       Total financing required for the expansion mill is estimated by
the IBRD/FAO CP at T Sh 200 million (in March 1976 prices). Capital and
operating costs have been estimated on the same basis as for the initial
plant and are summarized as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Year           Capital Cost /a         Year         Operating Cost /b
T Sh '000                             T Sh '000
15                 114,000              15               106,000
16                 541,000              16               102,000
17                 776,000              17               102,000
18                 223,000              18               152,000
19                  96,000              19               189,O0O
20              221,000
(and following years)
/a   Excluding interest and working capital.
/b   Including wood purchase which in the economic analysis has
been costed at the afforestation stage.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return for the 65,000 ton
Pulp and Papermill
(T Sh '000)
Pulp & Paper       Capital         Manufacturing          Net
Year          Sales            Cost               Cost            Cash Flow
1             -              31,000                -              (31,000)
2             -             179,000                -             (179,000)
3             -             387,000               -              (387,000)
4             -             346,000                -             (346,000)
5          128,000          139,000              81,000           (92,000)
6          188,600           66,000              92,000            30,600
7          215,500           11,000             98,000            106,500
8          248,400           11,000            104,000            133,400
9          275,400           11,000            105,000            159,400
10          284,300-          11,000            105,000            168,300
11          290,300           11,000             106,000           173,300
12          299,300           11,000             106,000           182,300
13          299,300           11,000             106,000           182,300
14          299,300           11,000             107,000           181,300
15          299,300           11,000             104,000           184,300
16          299,300           11,000             104,000           184,300
17          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
18          299,3oo           11,000             105,000           183,300
19          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
20          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
21          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
22          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
23          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
24          299,300           11,000             105,000           183,300
25          442,000 a'        11,000             105,000           326,000
Financial Rate of Return   10.7 over 25 years
a/ Residual plant value of 10% of total investment is included.



ANNEX 8
TANZANIA                             Table 2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic 7-ternal Rate of Return for the 65,000 ton-/
Paper and Paperboard
(T Sh'000)
Year          Total            Total              Net
Cost            Benefit           Benefit
1          37,336              -              (37,336)
2         213,2-36             -             (21-2,28%)
3         466,650              -             (466,650)
4         417,672              -             (417,672)
5         256,460           158,720           (97,740)
6         180,067           233,808            53,741
7         106,598           267,217           160,619
8         113,177           308,033           194,856
9         114,177           275,359           161,182
10         114,408           352,574           238,166
11         114,408           360,000           245,592
12         114,408           371,130           256,722
13         114,408           371,130           256,722
14         114,408           371,130           256,722
15         114,408           371,130           256,722
16         114,408           371,130           256,722
17         114,408           371,13P           256,722
18         114,408           371,130           256,722
19         114,408           371,130           256,722
20         114,408           371,130           256,722
21         114,408           371,130           256,722
22         114,408           371,130           256,722
23         114,408           371,130           256,722
24         114,408           371,130           256,722
25         114,408           626,230           511,822
Internal Rate of Return = 12.4% over 25 years
1! Cost have been calculated based on delivered wood costs.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Markets and Prices
1/
A.  Summary of Wood Demand-Supply Situation in Tanzania
1.        The consumption of wood and wood based material in Tanzania in
1970 is shown below:
Consumption of Wood and Wood Based Material, 1970
Product                         Consumption              Roundwood Equivalent
Unit                Quantity       m3 (r) '000        %
Sawnwood              m (s)               162,400              406         1.3
Softwood                                                     126        0.4
Hardwood                                                     280        0.9
Plywood               m3                     4,000               9          -
Particle board        m                      1,620               2          -
Fibreboard            tons                   3,620               7          -
Paper and Paperboard tons                   22,620             113         0.4
Poles                 m (r)               630,000              630         2.0
Charcoal              m (r)               820,000              820         2.6
Fuelwood              m (r)            29,660,000           29,660        93.7
Total                                                       31,647       100.0
3
Out of the total roundwood equivalent of 31,647,000 m , only the equivalent
of 124,000 m  was imported, mainly for paper and paperboard.  By far the
1/   Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Forestry Third Five-Year
Development Plan 1975-80, August 1975.



ANNEX 9
Page  2
greatest pait of domestic consumptioln was t;a[.On  r-om domestic forestry
resources.  It must be emphasized, howeveL, that the data for fuelwood
consumption is rather speculatiLvLf  indications are that the situation
in 1975 should in anv case De little different.  The figures illustrate
that almost 94', of the roundwood equivalent is consumed as fuelwood.
Almost the country's entire harvest of wood (99.5%) is taken from indi-
genous for-ests.  As these are seldom satisfactorily regenerated, it is
feared that in many places they will eventually be depleted, which will
cause shortages of wood, increased soil erosion, and diminished fresh
water supplies.
'.        Future demand for wood and wood based material has been esti-
mated by the Forest Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources and
TDurism as follows:
Future Demand Estimate for Wood and Wood Based Material
Roundwood Equivalent in 1990, and 2000
Volume  m (r) '000
Product                     1990           2000
Sawnwood                   1,010          1,515
of which a) softwood        556            922
b) hardwood       454            593
Plywood                       54            109
Particle board                22             48
Fibreboard                    38             72
Paper and Paperboard         685          1,475
Poles                        757            900
Charcoal /a                3,979          7,813
Fuelwood /a               32,668         36,975
Total          40,523         50,422
/a   1985 figures.
The considerable reduction of per capita consumption of fuelwood over the
period is based on the assumption that Tanzania will gradually develop its
natural resources of coal, gas and hydro-electric power.
3.        An analysis of the overall indigenuous wood supply situation must
be regarded as somewhat theoretical, as wood availability alone is not a
sufficient criterion. The resource must be within reach of the market and
the industrial production capacity must be available. Out of a gross total
area of some 44 miLlion hectares, a net productive forest area of about 34



ANNEX 9
Page 3
million hectares equivalent to 1.400 million m3 (r) of standing indigenous
forest can be identified. Details are given below:
Wood Volume of the Whole Productive Forest Area
Productive Forest              Gross Volume
Forest Type                   Area, hectares          m (r)/ha    Total m (r)
million
Closed (rain) Forest                337,000              197            66
Savanna Woodland                25,803,000                47         1,213
Intermediate Woodland            8,486,000                15           127
Total/Average              34,626,000                41         1,406
4.        The Forest Division estimates that about 24 million m tr) could
be cut annuall4 without the impoverishment of the forests, qf which would
be 5 million m (r) would be saw logs and 17 to 19 million m (r) 1/ fuelwood
and poles.  The demand-supply situation for fuelwood poles and charcoal will
become rather tight by 1990's.  While tye demand is estimated  at 37 million m
(r) in the year 1985, only 17 million m (r) can be supplied from indigenous
forests without depleting the forest stock.  For hard Iood saw logs and ply-
wood logs, the demand in 2000 will be 3about 700,000 m  (r), while there is a
potential3supply of about 5 million m (r). This annual surplus of about 4.3
million m (r) provides a potential for export, although because of low stand-
ing volume and unmarketable species, the surplus in reality is much smaller.
However, even the adjusted surplus must be considered theoretical without a
substantial increase in milling capacity.
5.        The existing plantations of about 48,000 ha of softwoods and 17,000
ha of hardwoods are estimated to be sufficient to meet the demand for sawlogs
up to the year 2000 and leave a balance for exports and/or cover part of
the fibrewood (particle board, fibreboard, paper and paperboard) demand.
The demand for sawlogs, from the year 2000 o wards, however, will not be
met. In order to produce nearly 1 million m (r) softwood sawlogs in the
1990's some 3,000 hectares of mature stands would have to be cut annually.
Thus at least 3,000 hectares would have to be planted annually starting in
1975/76, instead of the current 2,000 ha.
6.        Fuelwood, piles and charcoal demand in 1185 has been estimated at
at about 37 million m (r), of which about 17,000 m (r) would be supplied
by indigenous forests and the balance of about 20 million m3(r) would have
to come mainly from fuelwood plantations. For 20 million m (r) annually, an
1/   Depending on the assumption of whether fueldwood poles and charcoal will



ANNEX 9
Page 4
area of approximately 130,000 hectares of fuelwood forests would have to be
clear-cut and regenerated annually. Without a vast planting program an
enormous fuelwood deficit can be expected within the early 1980's.  F-'  ry
components are being included in the Mwanza/Shinyanga and Tabora Rural
Development projecvts now under preparation which will contribute an initial
thrust to meeting this deficiency.
7.        The annual 3demand for fibrewood in the early 1990's is estimated
at about 1 million m (r). A certain volume of wood residues (mainly from the
sawmill industries) could be used, leaving about 850,000 m (r) which would
have to come from fibrewood plantations. In order to meet this demand with
softwoods, some 4,000 hectares of softwoods would have to be planted annually
during 1975-80. Part of this demand (about 25-30%) could come from eucalyptus
plantations.
B. Paper, Paperboard and Timber Markets
8.        As outlined below imports of paper and paper products to Tanzania
have increased since 1969.
Imports of Paper and Paper Products
----------------------------Volume (tons)------------------
Cultural            Industrial                       Value
Year              Paper                  Paper            Total    T Sh million
1969              6,273                10,634            16,907         45.8
1970              8,576                14,040            22,616         61.6
1971              8,119                12,679            20,798         59.4
1972              8,933                16,287            25,220         67.0
1973             10,331                16,245            26,576         60.8
The latest projections of Tanzania paper and paperboard consumption were
carried out by Jaakko Poyry consulting engineers in 1975. Using certain
population and GOP growth rate assumptions, total demand for different
types of paper and paperboard was forecast as follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Forecast Demand for Paper and Paperboard
in Tanzania up to the Year 2000
and Growth Rates
Total Demand                       Growth Rates
1973   1980    1990   2000  1960-70  1973-80  1980-90 1990-2000
-   '000 metric tons  -               - percent/year -
Newsprint         2.3    3.7      9.0   19.0    15.2        7.0      9.3      7.8
Other Cultural
Papers            8.1   13.2    28.0   58.0    19.5         7.2      7.3      7.6
Industrial
Papers           16.2   40.7   100.0  218.0    20.4        14.1      9.4      8.1
Total      26.6   57.6   137.0  295.0    19.7        11.7       9.1      8.0
Compared to the growth rate in the past decade the projected figures are
expected to decline. At full production 1/, around 1987, the Mufindi pulp
and paper mill is expected to produce 65,000 TPA. This compares with an
estimated total demand for all kinds of paper of 100,000 tons by 1985 and
nearly 300,000 tons in 2000.  It is therefore expected that the whole of
the proposed Project's pulpwood production will be consumed domestically -
including the proposed output of the 180,000 TPA mill in the mid 1990's.
9.        About 150 small and ill-equipped sawmills, 70% of them registered,
produced a total of about 160,000 m (sA per annum in 1970. The largest
mill's annual ojtput was about 5,000 m (s) and only about 25 mills produced
more than 500 m . The present consumption of sawnwood comprises about 35%
of softwoods and 65% of hardwoods. At present Tanzania is self sufficient
in sawnwood. In 1972 the exports of logs, other roundwood and sawnwood,
including sleepers, amounted to T Sh 5.4 million (US$750,000) while imports
for the same categories were T Sh 1.7 million (US$240,000). However, as
the Government has cut back on imported softwoods due to a general shortage
of foreign currency, import figures somewhat understate the actual demand
for softwoods. In contrast to the recent developments characterized by
self-sufficiency, the last decade shows a large inflow of imported wood
products into Tanzania compared with exports.
10.       The sawmill at Sao Hill presently being built by TWICO with the
assistanse of NORAD with an intake of 30,000 m (r) and an output of some
12,000 m (s) in a single shift will be by far the country's most important
sawmill. Operations are scheduled to start by mid 1976. Expected consump-
tion centers have been estimated by TWICO in December 72 as follows:
1/   About 95% capacity would be reached by 1984.  The remainder, 5%, mainly
printing and writing, would be realized by 1987.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Consumption and Potential Markets of Sao Hill Sawnwood
Actual
Consumption                  Estimated
Region                   1968                        1980
High                 Low
(m3              (m3                 (m3
Mbeya                  1,150            18,500              16,300
Iringa                   220           15,300               13,600
Dodoma                   670            17,000              15,000
Tabora                    130           12,700              11,200
Morogoro                 540            16,400              14,600
Shinyanga                290           14,700               12,900
Mwanza                 2,820           23,800               21,000
Songea                   370              -                    -
Dar-es-Salaam          8,040           84,600               75,700
Although this market information should be considered with caution, there
is little doubt that demand for sawn timber exists in Tanzania, and pro-
vided production is carried out efficiently, it would even be possible to
export, especially to Zambia which currently imports some 50,000 m (s) a
year.
C. Prices
11.       After two decades of relatively stagnant real prices, paper and
paperboard prices have increased rather rapidly as from 1972 and have remained
relatively high in the second half of 1974, reflecting a widespread shortage
of paper in the world market. However, thereafter the world economic recession
has changed the market situation and the demand for many paper grades has
weakened. Since the beginning of 1975, the paper industries in the main pro-
ducing countries in North America and Europe have been working at a capacity
of only 50-75 percent. This has not, however, resulted in considerable price
reductions, and industry has maintained firm price levels to a great extent.
A recent FAO market forecast indicates that if the present recession does not
worsen, there will be an acute shortage of paper by as early as 1978. If the
present capacity to produce pulp and paper is not increased, the situation in
the years following 1978 will deteriorate rapidly.
12.       Although in the depressed international market situation kraftliner
is available in Europe at US$330 per metric ton, sack kraft between US$420



ANNEX 9
Page 7
to 450 per metric ton, newsprint at US$370 per metric ton and woodfree print-
ing paper prices vary from US$550 to US$630 per metric ton, depending on
grades and supplier. Jaakko Poyry estimates that the long term paper and
paperboard prices cif per metric ton in Western Europe would be around US$375
for kraftliner, US$480 for sackpaper, US$350 for newsprint and US$730 for
fine paper. For the purpose of this report those prices have been used as
the basis of the economic analysis as of March 1, 1976. These prices are
considered to be conservative. According to a recent FAO study the world
market should eventually become strong, as a world deficit for paper and
paperboard of some 6 million metric tons by 1979 has been projected.
13.       Paper and paperboard prices in Tanzania depend on developments
in the world market, ocean freight, and the country's relatively small
order sizes. Countries like Tanzania are generally hardest hit in a
supply/demand squeeze as they then find it difficult to obtain paper and
paperboard.
14.       Mill net prices have been based on UK cif prices and the paper
grades have been assumed to be exported from Scandinavia which has tradi-
tionally exported paper to Tanzania. Ocean freight is based on special
rates which would be lower than normal unit rates. Mill net prices for
different types of paper have been calculated as follows:
Printing &
Kraftliner  Sackpaper   Newsprint       Writing
=------------ US$/metric ton ------------------
CIF Western Europe (UK)         375          480          350           730
less Ocean Freight          28          28           28            35.5
FOB Scandinavia           347          452          322           694.5
plus Ocean Freight         108         108          108           131.5
CIF Dar-es-Salaam               455          560          430           826
plus wharfage &
port handling               14          15           13            23
Landed in Tanzania        469          575          443           849
less rail freight &
discounts                  29          28           28             75
Mill net price                  440          547          415           774



ANNEX 9
Page 8
Given the proposed configuration of the paper and paperboard mill of
14,000 tons of kraftliner, 26,000 tons of sack paper, 7,000 tons of
newsprint and 18,000 tons of printing and writing, the weighted mill
net price on which the economic analysis is based on is US$572 per
metric ton.
15.       Fees (stumpage rates) payable on forest produce where the produce
is cut and removed by the licensee are classified according to logs and
poles.  The rates for plantation logs (20 cm mid-girths 3and more) was  3
increased considerably on July 1, 1975 from T Sh 17.5/m to T Sh 49.4/mr
Stumpage rate for plantation poles (less thin 20 cm overbark girths at
butt) are the equivalent of about T Sh 33/m .  Based on those rates pulp-3
wood stumpage rates in 1975 prices would amount to an estimated T Sh 40/mr
In order to achieve full recovery of the pulpwood plantation establish ent
cost at an internal rate of return of 10% a stumpage rate of T Sh 60/m
would have to be charged in March 1976 prices for pine and T Sh 32 for
eucalyptus. In order to obtain a self-supporting industrial plantation
scheme Government should be asked to charge3the pulp mill the weighted per
cubic meter plantation cost i.e., T Sh 54/m in March 1976 prices. The
corresponding stumpage rate which wolld have to be charged for sawlog pine
plantation is estimated at T Sh 70/m . Acceptance of this pro)nos' i         1
l    re a continuous adjustment of stumpage rates to maintain its real
value.
16.       Sawlog selling prices for ths Sao Hill sawmill set by TWICO are
T Sh 500/mr for sawntimber, T Sh 750/m for pressure treated timber and
T Sh 200/mr for lower quality timber. It is expected that an equal share
of about 40% would be produced of sawntimber and pressure treated and about
20% of lower quality timber.
February 26, 1976



ANNX 9
TANZANIA                               Table 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Required Annual Planting of Softwood Sawlogs Forests During
the Period 1975-80 to Meet the Softwood Sawlog Demand in the Year 2005
Demand for       Required Annual      Planting
Softwood         Planting Targets    Targets
Saw Logs         ir. 1975-80,         1974/75,
in 2005,            hectares          hectares
m3 (r)
1. Arusha
Kilimanj aro
Tanga            244,000                  700             825
2. Coast
Dar-es-Salaam
Dodoma
Morogoro.        431,000                1,230
3. Mara
Mwanza
Shinyanga
West Lake        304,000                  870              300
4. Kigoma
Rukwa
Singida
Tabora           110,000                  310              100
5. Iringa
Mbeya            129,000                  370              400 !
6. Lindi
Mtwara
Ruvuna            76,000                  220              250
Total         1,294,000                3,700            1,975
1/  Planting 2,000 ha at Ruvu is earmarked for pulpwood and excluded here.
2/ Planting at Sao Hill: 300 ha for sawlog production.



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Government Cash Flow from the Proiect ('000 T Sh)
Cash Inflow                                     Cash Outflow
Bank Loan
IBRD      Revenue from  Total Cash   Commitment   InterestA/&    Project         Total Cash      Net Annual         Cumulative
Stumpagel-    Inflow        Charge      Repayment       Cost         Outflow    Inflow (Outflow)  Inflow (Outflow)
1       13,170            -         13,170         324          1,166        15,494         16,984         (3,814)             (3,814)
2        9,628            -          9,628         252          2,018         11,327        13,597          (3,969)            (7,783)
3        7,615            -           7,615        195          2,692          8,959         11,846         (4,231)           (12,014)
4       12,573            _         12,573         100          3,804         14,791         18,695         (6,122)           (18,136)
5       13,364            -         13,364          -           4,987         14,732        19,719          (6,355)           (24,491)
6                         -             -           -           6,107            -            6,107         (6,107)           (30,598)
7          -              -             -           -           6,107            -            6;107'        (6,107)           (36,705)
8          -              -             -           -           6,107            -            6,107         (6,107)           (42,812)
9          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (48,055)
10          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (53,298)
11          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (58,541)
12          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (63,784)
13          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (69,027)
14          -              864           864         -           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)           (74,270)
15          -           17,664        17,664         -           6,107            -            6,107         11,157            (62,713)
16          -           17,464        17,464         -           6,107            -            6,107         11,357            (51,356)
17          _           24,264        24,264          -          6,107            -            6,107         18,157            (33,199)
18          -           36,264        36,264         -           6,107            -            6,107         30,157             (3,024)
19          -           47,664       47,664          -           6,107            -            6,107         41,557             38,515
20          -           47,664       47,664          _           6,107            -            6,107         41,557             80,072
21          -            6,864         6,864         -           6,107            -            6,107            757             80,829
22          -              864           864         _           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)            75,586
23          -              864           864          -          6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)            70,393
24          -              864           864         _           6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)            65,150
25          -              864           864                     6,107            -            6,107         (5,243)            59,907
26          -              864           864          -            -              -              -             864              60,771
27          -              864           864         -             -              -              -             864              61,635
28          -              864           864         -             -              -              -             864              62,499
29          -              864           864         -             -              -              -             864              63,363
30          -              864           864          -            -              -              -              864             64,227
31          -              864           864          -            -              -              -              864             65,091
32          -              864           864         -             -              -              -              864             65,955
/ Figures shown without inflationary adjustments.
2/ Based on an interest rate of 8,85%,



ANNEX 11
Page 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        Internal rates of return have been calculated separately for the
sawlog plantations and for the pulp and paper plantations. These internal
rates of return have been estimated at 21.5% for sawlogs and 13.5% for paper
and paperboard.
2.        Sawlog Plantations.  The 330 hectares of sawlog plantations to
be planted (replanted) under the Project have been tested on a per hectare
model basis.l/ Sawlog benefits have been calculated on the import parity price
of sawlogs as follows:
Shadow Rate of Stumpage for Sawlog per m
US$
Sawntimber price lowest grade Scandinavia FOB               110
Sea freight to Dar-es-Salaam                              40
Port handling Dar-es-Salaam and rail to
Iringa                                                  20
Sawn timber for Iringa                        170
Ex-mill Sao Hill                                          62
Less stumpage element                                      6
Handling and transport from up-country
to Iringa                                               10
66
Difference: Economic value of locally grown
standing timber before conversion
US$ 104 (T Sh 837)
Shadow Rate
Conversion Factor  Ec. Stumpage   Yields  Revenue   Foreign Exch.
m (s) to m (r)    Rate  T Sh/m    m 3/ha  T Sh/ha        T Sh/ha
10 year thinning         30%                251           30    7,530         9,354
15 year thinning         35%                293           30    8,790        10,519
25 year clearfelling    40%                 335          340   11,390        14,149
1/   No conclusion should be drawn from the result which would compare sawlog
rate of return with that of the pulpmill.  Only the 330 ha of sawlog have
been tested on a model basis.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        Pulp and Paper Plantations.  As almost all the plantations would
be used as input in the expanded mill the 15,750 hectares of pulp and o8-pr
plantations to be planted under the Project have been estimated basea on Le
entire Sao Hill afforestation program over 37 years. Quantifiable benefits
and costs stemming from the program are presented in Tables 1 and 2; the data
from which these estimates were derived are presented in Annexes 3, 8 and 9.
4.        Basic assumptions used in the analysis include:
(a) the economic life of the Project for sawlog and pulp and paper
would be 26 years and 37 years respectively;
(b)  the adjusted weighted average mill net price based on the mill
output mix of T Sh 4,605 (US$572) per metric ton was used as the
basis for the economic analysis of the 65,000 ton mill and T Sh
4,460 (US$554) per metric ton for the 180,000 ton mill;
(c) existing plantations have been priced in the basic run;
(d) maintenance cost of existing plantation has been included;
(e) a shadow rate of US$1 = T Sh 10 was applied to reflect more
accurately the value of foreign exchange to Tanzania;
(f) the cost stream includes all economic cost stemming from the
program (investment and operational cost including maintenance)
and a 10% physical contingency allowance on roads, buildings
and housing, equipment and vehicles on the investment in the pulp
and paper mill and an allowance for specific physical contingencies
(Annex 3, Table 4);
(g) unskilled labor was shadow priced with a factor of 0.45
of the monetary wage rate;
(h) base line cost evaluation is as of March 1976;
(i) taxes are not included in the calculation.
5.        The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in some of the
basic parameters is illustrated below:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Rate of
I.  Sawlogs                                                                 Return (%)
The Basic Run                                                            21.5%
(a)  10% increase in costs                                          20.2%
(b)  10% reduction in benefits                                      20.1%
(c)  10% increase in costs and 10%
reduction in benefits                                       18.9%
(d)  One year delay in benefits                                     19.2%
(e)  Foreign exchange valued at T Sh 8.05   US$1;
unskilled labor not shadow rated                            18.0%
II. Pulpwood
The Basic Run                                                           13.5%
(a)  10% increase in costs                                          12.0%
(b)  10% increase in benefits                                       15.0%
(c)  10% increase in costs and 10% reduction in benefits            10.4%
(d)  One year delay in benefits                                     11.6%
(e)  20% increase in pulp mill investment cost                      12.8%
(f)  20% increase in pulp mill operating cost                       13.4%
(g)  20% increase in logging cost                                   13.4%
(h)  Effect of e - g together                                       10.9%
(i)  Reduction of the mill net price by 20%                         10.1%
(j)  Value of existing plantations increased by 395%                13.3%
(k)  Foreign exchange valued at T Sh 8.05 = US$1;
unskilled labor not shadow rated.                            12.6%
March 17, 1976



TaNNe 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost in the Economic Analysis
Paper and Paperboard!
(T Sh '000)
Logging                                   Pulpmill
and Log       Existing      Pulpmill    Operating   Wood Purchase
Year        Afforestation    Transport    Plantations   Investment         Costs       from Outside   Total Cost
1              11,236             -           6,830          -             -              -            18,066
2               7,133            -             -           47,806          -              -            54,939
3                5,290            -            -          232,179          -              -            237,469
4                7,965            -            -          467,880          -              -            475,845
5               6,845             -            -          418,720          -              -            425,565
6              10,032          24,140          -          168,280        73,450          3,395         279,297
7               8,887          16,500          -           79,920        79,550          4,440         184,930
8                6,281         16,100          -           13,400        82,810          5,000         123,591
9               6,750          10,200          -           13,400        85,290          5,000         120,640
10                7,378         15,200          -           13,400        81,550          5,000         122,528
11                5,658         12,900          -           13,400        81,550          5,000         118.508
12                5,843         21,100          -           13,400        82,810          5,000         128,153
13                5,308         14,500          -           13,400        82,810          5,000         121,0Th
14               4,911          11,000          -           13,400        82,810          5,000         117,12i
15                5,072         10,900          -          140,480        82,810          5,000         244,262
16                3,082         14,200          -          665,680        78,090           -            761,05a
17                2,877         10,600          -          956,080        78,090           -          1,047,647
18                2,671         62,100          -          274,280       115,170           -            454,221
19                2,466         59,600          -          118,880       131,030           -            31U,876
20                2,261         33,900          -           35,240       142,290           -            213,691
21                2,055         33,900          -           35,240       142,290           -            213,485
22                1,849         42,200          -           35,240       142,290           -            221,579
23                1,849         38,000          -           35,240       142,290           -            217,379
24                1,849         71,600          -           35,240       142,290           -            250,979
25                1,849         42,200          -           35,240       142,290           -            221,579
26                1,849         34,000          -           '5,240       142,290           -            213,379
27                1,849         34,500          -           35,240       142,290           -            214,239
28                1,849         44,900          -           35,240       142,290           -            224,279
29                1,849         69,300          -           35,240       142,290           -            248,679
30                1,849         31;600          -           35,240       142,290           -            210,979
31                1,849         39,800          -           35,240       142,290           -            219,179
32                1,849         31,600          -           35,240       142,290           _            210,979
33                1,849         31,600          -           35,240       142,290           -            210,979
34                1,849         66,300          -           35,240       142,290           -            245,679
35               1,849          31,600          -           35,240       142,290                        210,979
36               1,849          31,600          -           35,340       142,290                        210,979
37                1,849         31,600          -           35,240       142,290           _            210.979
a/ Based on a 180,000 ton pulp and paper mill.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return
Paper and Paperboarda'
(T Sh '000)
Project           Total Cost                            Incremental
Year              of Program           Benefit          Net Benefit
1                  18,066               -               (18,066)
2                  54,939               -               (54,939)
3                 237,469               -              (237,469)
4                 475,849               -              (475,849)
5                 425,565               -              (425,565)
6                 279,297            159-,582          (119,715)
7                 184,930            233,808             48,878
8                 123,591            267,217            143,626
9                 120,640            308,033            184,420
10                 122',528           341,444            218,916
11                 118,508            351,574            234,066
12                 128,153            360,000            231,847
13                 121,018            371,130            250,112
14                 117,121            371,130            254,009
15                 244,262            371,130            126,869
16                 761,052            371,130           (389,922)
17               1,047,647            371,130           (676,517)
18                 454,221            618,264            164,517
19                 311,876            618,264            306,388
20                 213,691            995,405            781,714
21                 213,485            995,405            781,920
22                 221,579            995,405            773,826
23                 217,379            995,405            778,026
24                 250,979            995,405.           744,426
25                 221,579            995,405             773,826
26,                213,379            995,405             782,026
27                 214,239            995,405             781,166
28                 224,279            995,405             771,126
29                 248,679            995,405             746,726
30                 210,979            995,405             784,426
31                 219,179            995,405             776,226
32                 210,979            995,405             784,426
33                 210,979            995,405             784,426
34                 245,679            995,405             749,726
35                 210,979            995,405             784,426
36                 210,979            995,405             784,426
210,979         1,419,153b/        :1,208,174
Economic Internal Rate of Return -  13.5% over 37 years
a/ Based on a 180,000 ton puip and paper mill.
b/ Including a residual value of 10% of total investment of pulp and paper mill.



ANNEX 11
Tabl.e 3
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
/Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculation
Sawlogs
(T Sh/ha)
Base Model
Year                        Cost          Benefit
1                        1,519                0
2                          171                0
3                          106                0
4                          385                0
5                          106                0
6                          431                0
7                          106                0
8                          339                0
9                          106                0
10                          339           9,354
11                          106                0
12                          106                0
13                          106                0
14                          106                0
15                          106          10,919
16                          106                0
17                          106                0
18                          106                0
19                          106                0
20                          106                0
21                          106                0
22                          106                0
23                          106                0
24                          106                0
25                          106                0
26                          106          14,149
Internal Rate of Return = 21.5 over 26 years



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Costs and Import Substitution of Output of Program
(T Sh '000)
Logging                    Pulpmill           Total
and Log     Pulpmill    Operating           Foreign                   Foreign Exch.                    Balance
Year              ~~~~1/ Trn3r/Ivsmn  31prtn                                                                  /   Balance
Year      Afforestation-  Transport   Investment -   Costs               Exch. Cost               Value of Output-    Balance    USt'000
1            4,119            -            -             -                4,119                          -             (4,119)      (512)
2             2,615           -          27,000          -                29,615                         -            (29,615)   (3,679)
3             1,939           -        165,100           -              167,036                          -           (167,036)  (20,750)
4             2,919           -        347,500           -              350,419                          -           (350,419)  (43,530)
5             2,509           -        303,000           -              305,509                          -           (305,509)  (37,951)
6             3,677         13,100     122,000        34,677            173,454                       128,695         (44,759)   (5,560)
7             3,233          9,100      58,000        37,984            108,317                      188,555           80,238      9,967
8             2,302          8,900       10,000       39,000             60,202                      215,498          155,296    19,291
9             2,474          5,000      10,000        41,000             58,474                      248,414          189,940    23,595
10             2,734          8,200       10,000        34,984            55,918                      275,358          219,440    27,259
11             2,074          6,300       10,000        34,984            53,358                      284,334          230,976    28,693
12             2,138         12,100       10,000       39,000             63,238                      290,323          227,085    28,209
13             1,945          7,300       10,000       39,000             58,245                      299,299          241,054    29,945
14             1,800          4,900       10,000        39,000            55,700                      299,299          243,599    30,261
15             1,859          4,900     102,000        39,000            147,759                      299,299          151,540    18,825
16             1,129          7,300     482,000        36,000            526,429                      299,299         (227,130)  (28,215)
17             1,054          4,800     692,000        36,000            733,854                      299,299         (434,555)  (53,982)
18               974         36,500     197,000        53,000            287,474                      498,600         211,126    26,227
19               904         33,800      87,000        61,000            182,704                      498,600         315,896    39,242
20               828         15,600       26,000       66,000            108,428                      802,746         694,318    86,251
21               753         15,600      26,000        66,000            108,353                      802,746         694,393    86,260
22               678         21,400      26,000        66,000            114,078                      802,746         688,668    85,549
23               678         18,400       26,000       66,000            111,078                      802,746         691,668    85,921
24               678         42,100       26,000        66,000           134,778                      802,746         667,968    82,977
25               678         21,400       26,000       66,000            114,078                      802,746         688,668    85,549
26               678         15,600       26,000       66,000            108,278                      802,746         694,468    86,269
27               678         16,000       26,000        66,000           108,678                      802,746         694,068    86,220
28               678         23,300       26,000       66,000            115,978                      802,746         686,768    85,313
29               678         41,200       26,000        66,000           133,878                      802,746         668,868    83,089
30               678         14,700       26,000       66,000            107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
31               678         20,500       26,000        66,000           113,178                      802,746         689,568    85,661
32               678         14,700       26,000        66,000           107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
33               678         14,700       26,000        66,000           107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
34               678         39,200       26,000        66,000           131,878                      802,746         670,868    83,338
35               678         14,700       26,000        66,000           107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
36               678         14,700       26,000        66,000           107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
37,              678         14,700       26,000        66,000           107,378                      802,746         695,368    86,381
1/  Including all foreign exchange plantation costs, overheads and infrastructure of the total planitation program                         a
2/  Based on the assumption that total output would,,have to be imported without the program.                                               |
3/ Including railway extension of a total of T Sh 17 million in year 3 and 4 excluding railway extension maintenance
which is negligible.



IBRD 11934
GA  R A                 G             ENODRL         K EAARC  197t
jBukobo                                'SAO  HtLL FORESTRY PROJE CT
RWA,NIA-AOA                                                  ~--.PROJECT LOCATIO'N
A           Nyamir mb~~~~~~~~~'  ~~   A~~~~~A                                                                             ____~A 
t 2;U0: 0 < < /- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  0  S  C  M  ALAE  i  E    
(  k/>Ist   t vNr    Kiombi                                      u                                                                                     R4 I9   So n Aiame.-/4
N a lir                             A                               N
tuchenz ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~fadei                                p~
;0 0  \s v  XMponda            \                   NND              A                   Mpwap-n                                 ug    ~ Luguru
0   '   +>   <+  X rF ,J<gwa ~~> 7)<Ae  it o                                             O l d u w lAM
3URgPpUG \,.                                                   \c u N  DJ Irna Mohn _ui
,, Z A I R E   . 90 X j  )   bawA    M   B/t  Y  .\ k 5;)e                     8                                   t   t  * '                    OAR E SALAA
;~~~'   -' 9    $'   IFa\O j (f<nCh  yo         <       H ;/                 A               /            -L A!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRIA 
. ,  : ' : *St_>  tKibod                            N                 G     A                                                                  '-U  FN      I       4y/bae9    
K A    yongo ~      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oo                                      QR~~-           RE  SLA
W'~~~. IAFI
Ka iam 0 ' - . ,-[,  ,'', * X  tM    B  O    <4g             tinyi                                      %          Wiiw    Masoho
ze a ~ ~ ~~~e                                        U.~R
.   ;.N-,n...  W .,WLAh-  S- RUNGE  (NACI I                  N                                                   A  E A  I WA>1
Kig'   . '         '                                             Ndn     gX           a         4AL IjNeD                                                     f     t
Thi  d.~AA~ ' - ' '  A A -  F X   X     *       r         i M \ At < LA   ~    I ED
A   - '  :, ' o A                            r                    p                          )5\ N                                    Z       B     E Ag             / N E M B A
AMA                                           B                                                                  r 0 A  0  alas a
tP.^tA~~ ~    ~~~~ NN Aon0t  P ew  .   ,.  ,    .      .t         XtiP             t3                     >        <     A                        M          UE     4 






IBRD 11935
_MARCH 1976
~~~~~v ~             ~               1
,:   -               S@\y                                                               X                                                                                                    Erensica Areas
g~~~~~~~~~ -orunas Rar<| e ed raes]
TAN       - ANIANZ                                                                                                                                                                   NI
.MSAOIHllLEFORESTRYSPROJECT
_   _-.
.~~a- ~~                                                                                                                                  ---  JANaSaSA 6a sTNZANI
-a--a-F-,--,                                                                                                                                                ---g>O HLL    ORETR     PROJanECTaa



