 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14710

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/13/2015

               Country: Bulgaria
             Project ID: P094018                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Second Trade And              Project Costs (US$M):                     70.4                55.4
                         Transport Facilitation
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      52.8                41.4
      Sector Board:      Transport                    Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                03/21/2007
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2012          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (60%); Central government administration (22%);
                           Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (18%)
          Theme(s):        Trade facilitation and market access (50%); Regional integration (25%); Export development
                           and competitiveness (25%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 " to facilitate trade by improving the capacity, efficiency and quality of services at selected European Union border
crossings with particular focus on the Trans-European Transport Network" (Loan Agreement, p. 4; Project Appraisal
Document, p. 6).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

 c. Components:
 1: Improvement of physical capacity and working conditions at selected European Union external border crossings
with particular focus on the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) Corridors (appraisal cost US$46.4 million;
actual cost US$30.4 million). This component was designed to upgrade the infrastructure and equipment at Kapitan
Andreevo and Kalotina border crossing points (BCPs), and establish a new customs terminal at Svilengrad.

2. Construction of the Access Road to Kapitan Andreevo Border Crossing Point (appraisal cost US$12.9 million;
actual cost US$14.7 million). This component was to finance the construction of a 3.4 km access road linking the
Maritsa Motorway with the Kapitan Andreevo border crossing point, including consulting services for the preparation
of the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Environmental Management Plan, and supervision.

3. Enhancing sharing of border crossing data and streamlining operational procedures of border crossing agencies
(appraisal cost US$10.2 million; actual cost US$9.3 million). This component was to finance a combination of
investments and revisions to procedures to enhance electronic data exchange between border crossing agencies and
encourage the move towards the implementation of the ‘single window’ concept. It included provision of technical
advisory services, the acquisition of necessary hardware, software and other equipment, training, and extending the
Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA) digital trunk communication system to additional border crossing points for border
police.

4. Capacity building and support to project implementation (appraisal cost US$0.9 million; actual cost US$0.97
million). This component was designed to enhance the capacity of the trade community and stakeholders, as well as
supporting the project implementation, monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: Total project cost was US$55.4 million at closure, 21% lower than the appraisal estimate of US$70.4
million, due to cancellation of a number of project activities.

Financing: The Bank's loan of US$ 52.8 million disbursed at US$41.4 million at project closure. There was no
co-financing.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$14 million, as compared to the commitment amount of US$17.7
million.

Dates: The project was extended twice by a total of two years from the original closing date of June 30, 2012 to June
30, 2014, through two project restructuring. The first extension, in January 2012, was for 18 months due to delays in
implementation of the key project activities. During this restructuring, the targets for the main outcome indicator were
further increased to account for early achievement, i.e., border processing time at the Kapitan Andreevo and Kalotina
border crossing points. At the same time, the reconstruction of Kalotina border crossing point was dropped. Also, the
“customs productivity” target was revised due to a change in the methodology. In 2013, the closing date was extended
by a further six months to June 30, 2014, to complete the works at Kapitan Andreevo border crossing point.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
Improving trade competitiveness was at the core of the country's reform agenda as a result of the accession to the
European Union (EU) in 2007. The project development objectives were consistent with the focus on trade facilitation
enhancement in the 2006 Bulgarian Strategy on Integrated Border Management, and the National Strategy for
Integrated Infrastructure Development for the period 2006–2015, which prioritized the construction and modernization
of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) corridors. The objectives are also relevant to the World Bank
Group's Country Strategy for the period of 2011-2013, which particularly focused on improved border infrastructure.
The objectives are also relevant to the World Bank Group's country strategy at appraisal, which identified the sector
needs as improved road network conditions and trade facilitation at border crossings. The Bulgarian government
requested the Bank to continue its support delivered under the first trade and transport facilitation project (P070086),
which helped reduce non- tariff costs to trade and transport, and reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of development objectives was clear. The project results framework indicated a clear causal chain
between the activities financed by the project and the outputs and outcomes related to the attainment of the
development objectives. For example, with regard to investments in upgrade of the infrastructure and equipment at
the Bulgarian-Turkish border at Kapitan Andreevo and the Bulgarian-Serbian border at Kalotina (Component 1 and
2), and modernization of communication systems to improve information exchange and streamlining the procedures of
border crossing agencies (Component 3), the activities were expected to reduce border entry and exit times for freight
transport at the targeted border crossing points, and improve customs productivity. These, reinforced by strengthened
capacity, were intended to help to improve efficiency, thus facilitating trade at selected crossings.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   To facilitate trade by improving the capacity , efficiency and quality of services at selected European Union border
crossings with particular focus on the Trans -European Transport Network . Substantial.

Outputs
  The Kapitan Andreevo border crossing point was reconstructed based on a more effective lay-out. As noted by
     the ICR, it is fully operational, despite 85% of works completed at project closure (ICR, Results Framework).
    A 3.4 new access road to the Kapitan Andreevo BCP was constructed, as planned. The road opened for traffic in
     August 2014.
    The equipment was modernized at the selected border crossing points, including provision of new X-ray
     machines and weighing scales to help reduce processing time and facilitate inspection control procedures.
    The Single Payment Window (SPW) system was rolled out at 11 external EU BCPs. This activity was
     implemented by the Government in 2008, while the project partially financed the activity, i.e., building of booths
     and related infrastructure (ICR, p.16). This system was designed to improve revenue collection, information
     exchange among border agencies and the systematic performance measurement for border crossing time. Due
     to further adjustments to the legislation and the Schengen inspection in 2010, the SPW was replaced with a new
     integrated information system.
    TETRA digital trunk communication system was provided for the border police, as planned.
    A new customs terminal at Svilengrad was completed in 2014 and expected to be put into operation in November
     2014 (ICR, p. 25).
    Reconstruction works at the Kalotina BCP were dropped due to the decision of the Government in response to
     the concerns for re-allocation of private businesses (ICR, p.11). Instead, a new reconstruction layout plan was
     produced for the Kalotina BCP and the following four small BCPs, for which the work were also dropped: the
     Vrushka, Chuka, and Bregovo BCPs (border with Serbia) and the Logodaj and Zlatarevo BCPs (border with FYR
     Macedonia).
    Capacity building activities included a project launch workshop, a seminar attended by about 70 representatives
     of NCA, shipping companies, economic operators, and customs brokers; and two study tours to foreign border
     crossings for the representatives of MOF, Ministry of State Administration and State Reform, border agencies
     and designers.



Outcome
  Average border entry time for freight transport at Kapitan Andreevo reduced from 88 minutes to 44 minutes,
    surpassing the original (20% reduction) and revised targets (48 min).
    Average border exit time for freight transport at Kapitan Andreevo reduced from 105 minutes to 13 minutes,
     substantially exceeding both the original (20%) and revised targets (52 min).
    Average border entry time for freight transport at Kalotina reduced from 79 minutes to 31 minutes, substantially
     exceeding both the original (20%) and revised targets (52 min).
    Average border exit time for freight transport at Kalotina reduced from 112 minutes to 24 minutes, substantially
     exceeding both the original (20%) and revised targets (48 min).
    Customs productivity measured by the average annual number of processed customs declarations per customs
     staff improved from the baseline of 405 to 445, close to the target of 453.


It is concluded that improved capacity, efficiency and quality of services at the selected border crossings have
contributed to the overarching objective of trade facilitation.


5. Efficiency:

Economic returns. The ex-ante economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated separately for the components,
as follows (i) 23.1% for the selected border crossing points (Component 1), and the access road (Component 2); and
(ii) 24.3% for the communication system for the border police (Component 3) (PAD, Annex 9). At project closure, the
ex-post economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated at 29.7% for the overall project following the same
methodology. The benefits estimated under for the BCPs and access road analysis included lower transport costs for
freight traffic and saved time for passengers due to the decrease of waiting times at border crossings, and economic
benefits of trade expansion resulting from the above decrease of transport times and from the improved quality and
security of the customs control performed. The benefit estimated under the communication system analysis was the
reduction of the border police checks duration.

Cost effectiveness. The ICR p.18 indicates that the cost for access road increased by 15%, considered within a
normal range of cost contingencies for road works.

The project implementation was affected by a number of factors that were beyond the Bank's control, in particular
lengthy processing times and approval procedures, financial difficulties resulting from the 2008 global financial crisis,
frequent changes due to the new EU membership requirements and a new goal of accession to the Schengen area,
as well as other exogenous factors, such as floods and unexpected archeological findings (ICR, p.7-8).

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                      23.1%                                    84%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                      29.7%                                    98%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is high, and that of design is substantial. The project helped substantially improve the
capacity, efficiency and quality of services at the selected border crossings. Efficiency is assessed as substantial. The
project outcome under both the original and revised outcome targets is rated Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Physical reconstruction of the border crossing points, procured equipment, and border re-organization are
      expected to be maintained, considering the Government’s commitment on accession to the Schengen area.
     The main challenge, as identified by the ICR p.19, is to maintain the processing and operational arrangements at
      an adequate standard, including security levels required for the country’s accession to the Schengen area.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was a continuation of the Bank's regional engagement in improving trade and transport facilitation,
and its first Trade and Transport Facilitation Project in Bulgaria. Project design incorporated the lessons (e.g.,
improving inter-agency cooperation), and some concepts (e.g., the layout design at Kapitan Andreevo and
Kalotina border crossing points). The experience from a pilot project in the Lesovo border crossing point carried
out by the government was taken into consideration when the communication system was designed. The risk
assessment is found appropriate by the ICR, with the exception of delays in project implementation that should
have been rated substantial or high (ICR, p.6). The project preparation extended over three years, with
consideration of different focus on infrastructure (railways) and design (private sector involvement) (ICR, p.4-5).

The ICR p. 19 identifies a number of weaknesses in preparation. Some sub-components were not fully ready prior
to the appraisal, in particular, three main civil works layout plans for two border crossing points were not
completed and only a preliminary study with six alternative alignments for the access road was available before
the appraisal. The potential implications of the relocation of duty free shops and petrol stations could have been
scoped in better detail. The ICR p. 19 finds that the M&E system could have been better prepared and
documented in the PAD, and also that the procurement plan was probably optimistic. Moreover, the importance of
a beneficiary survey should have been given prominence.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p. 20 reports that supervision was regular, with 14 supervision missions carried out during
implementation. The supervision team was proactive with regard to the use of resources and its effort considering
new evolving government needs and priorities in aspiration to join the Schengen area. This was evidenced by two
project restructurings and design modifications. The aide memoires and implementation status reports were
sufficiently detailed (ICR, p.20) .The ICR p.20 informs that the supervision team and the project implementation
unit worked closely together to tackle issues raised during implementation. This included re-design of the access
road that significantly reduced the cost for this component, reviewing M&E methodologies (ICR, p.9), and
resettlement policy for the border crossing point component in light of the new law that removed all duty-free
shops and petrol stations from the borders. The inclusion of locally based specialists into the supervision team
during the last four years provided hands-on assistance to the borrower. The ICR p.20 notes that the project team
could have explored more opportunities for dissemination and training for the stakeholders.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     During the project preparation phase, the Government demonstrated a strong commitment to the project,
establishing the project implementation team (PIT) within the Ministry of Finance to avoid scattered responsibilities
in various agencies. The Government also complied with all legal covenants under the project and ensured
compliance with the Bank safeguards procedures. The ICR p.20 commends the Government for its ability to bring
all stakeholders together, not only in the formalized body of the inter-ministerial committee on border issues, but
also on a working level to ensure their contributions to the achievement of the project objectives.

The ICR p.7 reports that the 2008 global financial crisis, however, impacted the ability of Ministry of Finance to
fulfill all project counterpart obligations in a short period of time. Government adopted a budget ceiling on
investment projects starting in 2011 and subsequently the National Budget Law of 2012 significantly reduced
budget for all investment operations in 2013, which affected the entire World Bank portfolio performance. In
addition to the budget ceilings in 2012, frequent government changes emanating from the new EU membership
requirements and an additional goal of accession to the Schengen area, as well as the long transition period due
to the 2009 election caused major delays in project implementation. The ICR p.21, however, commends the
Government for being able to prioritize the activities in order to ensure achievement of the project's objectives.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project implementation team (PIT) within the Ministry of Finance was the implementing agency. The ICR
p. 21 assesses that PIT handled well contract implementation, loan management, procurement, disbursement,
and quarterly reporting of the project. The ICR p. 6 reports that the inter-agency cooperation was achieved by the
strong coordination role of PIT in the MoF, who managed to ensure inputs and coordination of all border agencies
throughout the project implementation. Regular weekly meetings of all border agencies were held under the PIT’s
arrangement when implementing the reconstruction at Kapitan Andreevo BCP. Despite frequent changes in
administration, the PIT manager and core members stayed during the entire period of project implementation
ensuring consistency and quality. The ICR p. 21 finds PIT to be responsive and effective in resolving emerging
issues raised during the implementation. For example, the PIT made extensive information collection efforts to
clarify and support the compliance with the World Bank’s social safeguard policies as part of the BCP
reconstruction component, as well as to provide resettlement assistance to the affected land owners.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project's indicators were appropriately linked with the intermediate objectives. The key indicators included
baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (PAD, Annex 3). The key performance indicators for the project
development objective included: (i) average border entry time for freight transport at the selected border crossing
points; (ii) average border exit time for freight transport, and (iii) customs productivity measured by the average
number of processed customs declarations per customs staff. The last indicator, however, as noted by the ICR p. 9,
was not defined at the BCP level but at the national level.
The ICR p.9 reports that the PAD envisioned that the project should be monitored in an automated way through the
proposed Single Payment Window (SPW).The methodology for collecting freight entry and exit times and the estimate
of the baseline were not well specified in the PAD (2007). However, when the SPW system was implemented in
2008, the baseline was updated through a more accurate way of collecting data, and this updated baseline was
significantly higher than that estimated in the PAD. For example, the baseline for average border entry time for freight
transport at Kapitan Andreevo BCP was 50 minutes in 2007 compared to the updated new baseline of 88 minutes in
2008, and the original baseline of 40 minutes for exit time as compared to the updated baseline of 105 minutes (ICR,
Results Framework). This had implications for the target defined as a 20% reduction in time.

The PIT was responsible for data collection with input from the Customs, the border police, and the Roads
Infrastructure Agency.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR p.10 reports the outcome indicators were consistently reported during the implementation. There were two
methodologies used for collecting the freight processing times (i) (mid-2008 to mid-2010): after the SPW System was
put in place in mid-2008, every vehicle was recorded at the time when a flash drive was received (activating the Single
Payment Process) upon entering the border area, and when payment was made to exit; and (ii) (mid-2010 to 2014):
after the SPW was removed from practice in 2010, a similar time recording system was developed to report a 7.5%
sample of vehicle arrival and departure times at points close to the collection booths used in the SPW system. The
second methodology was estimated to be consistent with the first methodology (ICR, p.9).The ICR p.10 adds that an
intermediate indicator for the number of training opportunities provided to the stakeholders was not monitored closely
and was dropped in the second restructuring.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR p.10 reports that M&E was used to assess project progress and was regarded as an important resource
when making decisions on project restructuring. Also, the Customs considered the indicator measurement to be a tool
to monitor its own performance to improve efficiency. In addition, the project team was informed that a
video-surveillance-based system was planned to be introduced in 2015 to enhance security and efficiency at border
crossing points, which would also be used to monitor border-crossing times.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project triggered four safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.12 Involuntary
Resettlement, OP4.04 Natural Habitats, and OP4.11 Physical Cultural Resources. Category A for environmental
assessment purposes was assigned under Component 2 - construction of 3.4 km access road to Kapitan Andreevo
border crossing. The reconstruction of BCPs (component 1) was classified as Category B. The ICR p.10 reports that
"project implementation was in compliance with the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards policies and with due
diligence documents such as EMP and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP)".

Environmental Assessment : For the access road, because the final alignment of the road was not ready before
appraisal, neither the full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) nor the Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) was required
by the Bank for appraisal. Instead, a satisfactory preliminary EIA and a Terms of Reference for a full EIA (based on
the detailed design) were prepared and disclosed, and public consultations were held prior to the appraisal. For the
reconstruction of BCPs, the Environment Management Plans (EMP) were prepared and disclosed with public
consultations prior to the appraisal. The ICR p.10 reports that temporary safeguard issues that arose during
implementation were handled properly. For example, poor waste management on site was resolved in a timely
fashion based on instructions from the supervising engineer.


Involuntary Resettlement : A Land Acquisition Policy Framework (LAPF) was prepared and disclosed, and public
consultations were held prior to the appraisal . The ICR p.10 reports that the land acquisition followed the Bank’s
safeguards procedures and LAP. Land acquisition process was slow due to the fact that many land parcels were
owned by multiple owners. Also, there were delays to land owners in receiving payments due to administrative
burdens, even after all the compensation was deposited in the accounts of the owners or the district government.
Following the Bank’s suggestion, PIT worked to document and verified the status of the compensation and hired a
consultant to provide administrative, legal, and support services for the owners in order to ensure that they received
compensation in accordance with LAP.


The ICR p.10 reports that information available at the time of appraisal indicated that the land on BCPs was publically
owned and as such, in accordance with legislation, no resettlement was necessary for the reconstruction of the
BCPs. Therefore the potential relocation of business facilities (mainly duty-free shops and petrol stations) at the BCPs
was not flagged in the PAD, nor was it specified in the LAPF. During implementation, in 2008 Bulgaria amended the
Duty-free Act, which forced all duty-free facilities at the external EU borders to close. A detailed review of the
applicability of the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard for the BCP component was conducted. The closure of these
facilities was not related to the Bank project, therefore, the land acquisition framework did not apply (ICR, p.11).

During the April 2008 mission, the project team noticed that a number of business facilities were located in the border
area of Kalotina, which could be impacted by the proposed BCP reconstruction. In the June 2009 mission, PIT
confirmed that the Kalotina layout would be revised to avoid the need to relocate certain commercial activities so that
the Land Acquisition Framework need not be applied to the BCP component. However, in the December 2010
mission, the Bank team learned that the Customs had proposed changes to the layout plan, which would involve the
displacement of private businesses, some of which, however, were illegal.There was an appeal against the layout
plan submitted to the supreme administrative court by persons claiming to have ownership rights over a small portion
of the land in the Kalotina BCP territory (the claim was rejected by the supreme administrative court). However, the
government took into account the need to minimize possible adverse impacts and prevent long delays stemming from
the appeal. Therefore, the reconstruction at the Kalotina BCP was dropped in 2012.

Physical Cultural Resources . The ICR p.10 mentions that this safeguard policy was triggered as a precautionary
measure. The archeological sites were found within the construction area of access road in 2012 and 2013. The ICR
on p.19 reports that appropriate actions were taken to preserve the culture and salvage the remains. After series of
discussions on the possible and technically viable means for preservation and exposition of the findings, the Ministry
of Culture agreed that the ancient road “Via Diagonalis” would be exhibited on the roadbed of the access road (ICR,
p.26).

Natural Habitats. This safeguard policy was triggered as a precautionary measure (ICR, p.10). The ICR p.26 adds
that in 2014 small works were carried out for construction of a culvert at Kalamitsa River in the area of the access
road. The culvert was executed on request of the inhabitants and Mayor of Kapitan Andreevo village to ensure
villagers’ free access to the agricultural lands at the other side of the river.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The ICR p.11 reports that procurement performance during the implementation phase was satisfactory
for most of the project’s life in reference to the quality of the procurement documentation and procedures. There was
no report of non-compliance with the Bank’s procurement policies and processes. Delays in procurement were
addressed through regular implementation support with the participation of the procurement specialist from the Bank,
on the basis of the Bank’s review and advice on technical issues, and in accord with regular reviews of and updates to
the procurement plan (ICR, p.12).

Financial management. The ICR p.12 reports the project was in compliance with the audit covenant and with
unmodified (clean) audited project financial statements submitted annually as per the due dates agreed. The ICR
notes that in December 2012, the rating for counterpart funding was briefly reduced to moderately unsatisfactory due
to constraints encountered in terms of the adequacy of budgetary ceilings; in some cases, the project allocations were
supplemented through in-year rectifications. A lack of predictability and limited financing affected planning and
contracting, and caused delays in the performance of work and the disbursement of proceeds from loans (ICR, p.12).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                       Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The key lesson emerging from the information provided by the ICR is the following:

    Institutional and capacity building through improved procedures, cooperation, and information exchange is as
     equally important as physical improvements to the infrastructure, in particular for trade and transport facilitation
     projects.

The following lesson is formulated by IEG:

    A beneficiary survey is important in projects where service improvement is the main objective.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise, clear and outcome-oriented. It provides insightful explanations for important elements of the
implementation experience. The lessons, however, could have been better articulated. There are also some
inconsistencies in the ICR, in particular with regard to the first restructuring date, e.g., 2011 on p.9 and 2012 on p.13.
Also, the analysis of the Kalotina exit time in the last para on p.14 does not correspond to the relevant data in Table 5
on p.15.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
