                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000242




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-33560 NETH-27743)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.50 MILLION
                       (US$92.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                   FOR A

                       NATIONAL NUTRITION PROJECT




                                March 15, 2007




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective (01/18/2007)

                         Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
                          Bangladesh 1.00 = US$0.0142
                        US$1.00 = Bangladesh Taka 70.38

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   June 1 ­ June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABCN    Area-Based Community Nutrition
AM      Aide Memoire
BBF     Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation
BCC     Behavior Change Communication
BDHS    Bangladesh Demographic & Health Survey
BINP    Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
BRAC    Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CNC     Community Nutrition Center
CNO     Community Nutrition Organizer
CNP     Community Nutrition Promoter
DP      Development Partner
ECNEC   Executive Committee of National Economic Council
ED      Executive Director
FAPAD   Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate
FM      Financial Management
GMP     Growth Monitoring and Promotion
GOB     Government of Bangladesh
HKI     Helen Keller International
HNPSP   Health Nutrition and Population Sector Program
HPSP    Health and Population Sector Program
ICDDR,B International Center for Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh
IDA     International Development Association
IFA     Iron Folic Acid
IQUAG   Independent Quality Assurance Group
M & E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MOHFW   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MPR     Monthly Performance Reports
MSA     Management Support Agency

MTR    Mid-Term Review
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
NNP    National Nutrition Project
NTG    Nutrition Technical (working) Group
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PMU    Project Management Unit
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SA     Social Assessment
SWAp   Sector-wide Approach
TTL    Task Team Leader
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
VAC    Vitamin A Capsules
VGD    Vulnerable Group Development




                            Vice President: Praful C. Patel

                          Country Director: Xian Zhu

                           Sector Manager: Anabela Abreu

                      Project Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse
                         ICR Team Leader: Meera Shekar

                                                    Bangladesh
                                       National Nutrition Project




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 42
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 52
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 64
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 66
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     National Nutrition
Country:                Bangladesh             Project Name:
                                                                     Project
                                                                     IDA-33560,NETH-
Project ID:             P050751                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     27743
ICR Date:               03/29/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             GOB
Original Total
                        XDR 68.5M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 48.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National Nutrition Project
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Canadian Int'l Dev. Agency (CIDA)
Government of Netherlands


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/30/1998     Effectiveness:       06/29/2000        06/29/2000
Appraisal:             11/01/1999     Restructuring(s):                      06/04/2003
Approval:              05/25/2000     Mid-term Review:                       02/12/2003
                                      Closing:             12/31/2004        08/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               9                 9
Health                                                         90                90
Law and justice                                                 1                 1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                 Secondary        Secondary
Gender                                                       Secondary        Secondary
Law reform                                                   Secondary        Secondary
Nutrition and food security                                   Primary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Xian Zhu                         Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:           Anabela Abreu                    Richard Lee Skolnik
Project Team Leader:      Sandra Rosenhouse                Iqbal A.F.M. Kabir
ICR Team Leader:          Meera Shekar
ICR Primary Author:       Shreelata Rao-Seshadri



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective of NNP as outlined in Section 1 of the PAD was:




                                             ii

 "The National Nutrition Project (NNP) will be the first of a series of investments which
will support the Government's 15 year vision to extend community nutrition services to
the entire country. This vision is outlined in the Government's National Nutrition
Program and is further developed in the National Plan of Action. The goal of the national
program is to improve nutritional status to the extent that malnutrition will no longer be a
public health problem. NNP will build on experiences and lessons learned from the
recently completed sector work and the on-going IDA supported Bangladesh Integrated
Nutritional Project (BINP). The development objective of NNP is to significantly reduce
malnutrition, especially among poor women and children. This will be achieved through
the adoption of new changes in behavior and appropriate use of nutrition services which
will be increasingly managed by local communities. NNP will establish important links
with the Ministry of Education by incorporating general nutrition knowledge in the
school curricula, and increasing the coverage of the Ministry of Women and Children's
Affairs' Vulnerable Group Development Program to the poorest households in the
country."

 Annex 1 of the PAD lists a more succinct PDO "to achieve sustainable improvements
in birth weights and nutrition status of vulnerable groups, especially among poor women
and children, through the adoption of new behaviors and the appropriate use of nutrition
services which were to be increasingly managed by local communities."

 Key outcome indicators for measuring and monitoring progress identified in Section 1
of the PAD were: "reduced prevalence of severe and moderate child malnutrition,
reduced prevalence of vitamin-A deficiency and iron deficiency anemia, increased use of
iodized salt, increased pre-pregnancy and pregnancy weight gains, reduced low birth
weight, and increased practice of exclusive breastfeeding followed by timely introduction
of complementary foods". The list of KPIs in Annex 1 of the PAD is too long to be
reproduced here.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                             approval           Target        Completion or
                                           documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Severe protein-energy malnutrition in children <2 years of age reduced to 5%
               12.9% national (from
               BDHS 2004)

Value          12.4% in control areas                                       16% (from monthly
quantitative or(from NNP baseline,      5%                  n/a             performance report,
Qualitative)   2004)
               24% (from Monthly                                            Aug 2006)

               Performance Report Sep
               2004)



                                             iii

               11.4 % (from NNP
               baseline 2004, for
               children < 2 years)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2000          06/04/2003    12/31/2006

Comments        MPR data are not comparable with BDHS or NNP baseline. But MPR data

(incl. %        suggest that severe malnutrition rates were reduced by about a third (from 24 to

achievement)    16%). Given the short implementation period the achievement was reasonable
                though not on-target.
Indicator 2 :   Moderate protein-energy malnutrition in children <2 years reduced to 30%
                24.7% nationally (from
                BDHS 2004)
                29.3% in control areas
Value           (from NNP baseline,
quantitative or 2004)                     30%                 n/a           25.3% (from MPR

Qualitative)    26% (from Monthly                                           Aug 2006)

                Performance Report Sep
                2004)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2000          06/04/2003    12/31/2004

Comments        MPR used different reference standards so data not comparable with BDHS or

(incl. %        NNP baseline. But even with MPR data the rate of decline seems slow; partly

achievement)    explained by severely undernourished children moving to moderate category.
                Target achieved at baseline.
Indicator 3 :   Prevalence of night blindness among children ages 1-5 sustained at 0.5%
                                                                            0.04%

Value                                                                       (from HKI/IPHN

quantitative or 0.5%                      < or = 0.5%         n/a           Nutritional

Qualitative)                                                                Surveillance Report
                                                                            2005)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2000          06/04/2003    12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        No new household level data collected since 2004 as no endline survey was

achievement)    conducted.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years
                Appropriate (quantity/quality/frequency) complementary feeding initiated for
Indicator 1 :   50% of all infants by six months of age and maintained until age 2.

Value                                                                       97%
(quantitative   26.9%                     50%                 n/a           (NNP-PMU data
or Qualitative)                                                             from MPR
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2000          06/04/2003    06/30/2006


                                               iv

Comments
(incl. %       No new household level data collected since 2004. The indicator is poorly

achievement)   defined as it contains three dimensions and was hard to measure.

Indicator 2 :  25% of all infants exclusively breastfed for first six months
Value                                                                        52.7% (NNP-PMU
(quantitative  n/a                        25%                 n/a            data from MPR 9%
or Qualitative)                                                              from BDHS,2004.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2000          06/04/2003     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       No new household level data collected since 2004 as no endline survey was

achievement)   conducted.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     11/14/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.00
  2     06/10/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.06
  3     12/12/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.12
  4     06/12/2002          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      4.23
  5     11/08/2002          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      4.29
  6     03/20/2003          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      6.81
  7     06/15/2003          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      9.48
  8     12/18/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     14.01
  9     06/28/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     27.29
  10    12/28/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     40.41
  11    03/18/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     47.46
  12    09/19/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   63.65

  13    03/20/2006           Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    73.26

  14    10/26/2006          Unsatisfactory              Moderately
                                                      Unsatisfactory                    79.46



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring     Board        Restructuring Disbursed at          Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)      Approved                      Restructuring
                PDO Change                                             Key Changes Made
                                  DO       IP       in USD
                                                    millions

   06/04/2003         N            U        U           9.92      No formal reasons identified in
                                                                  except 2003 QER




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Bangladesh National Nutrition Project (NNP) was approved by the Board on May 25, 2000 and
became Effective on June 29, 2000, for an original Credit amount of US$124.42 million equivalent. At
the time NNP was appraised, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) had expressed significant
commitment and expended strong efforts to address the high burden of malnutrition in the country,
including through the International Development Association (IDA)-financed Bangladesh Integrated
Nutrition Project (BINP, 1997-2002). Despite this, levels of malnutrition continued to be unacceptably
high: 58% of under-5 children were underweight, and 51% were stunted; nearly 50% of women suffered
from chronic energy deficiency; incidence of low birth weight was estimated at 45%, perhaps the highest
in the world; and micronutrient deficiencies resulted in about 70% of pregnant women being anemic. The
economic and social costs in terms of lost productivity, poor learning outcomes, burden of disease, and
mortality were high.

There was strong commitment from the GOB to address malnutrition in the country: the then Prime
Minister had made her vision for malnutrition reduction a key agenda for her dialogue with the Bank.
Several important actions had been taken by the government: the National Food and Nutrition Policy and
a National Plan of Action on Nutrition had been approved; the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council
(BNNC) had been re-activated; nutrition had been included in the Fifth Plan document; and GOB had
already requested the World Bank for support for expansion of BINP into an additional 20 upazilas.

The predecessor project, the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) was implemented between
1995-2002 in response to the high rates of low birth weight and malnutrition among children and women
of childbearing age. The current project's aim was to reduce malnutrition in Bangladesh through three
intermediate objectives: (1) improve the capacity of national-level institutions in Bangladesh in the areas
of advocacy ; analysis, policy advice, operations research, and program support; (2) improve the capacity
of communities, households, and individuals in the project area to understand their nutritional problems
and to take appropriate action; and (3) improve the nutritional status of the population in the project area,
with particular emphasis on children and pregnant and lactating women. BINP covered 59 of a total of
464 Thanas/upazilas (administrative units) in Bangladesh. This approach was to be scaled up through the
follow-on National Nutrition Program (NNP) to cover a total of 105 of the country's 464 Thanas.

NNP objective was in keeping with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh (Report No.
17453-BD; 03/03/1998) which focused on reducing poverty through job-creation and interventions to
assist the poor. NNP was to contribute to this goal by "improving the nutritional status of the poor,
thereby improving health, children's ability to learn and progress towards overall human
development". It was also to contribute to gender equity and social development goals; as well as
improve overall governance in the sector through partnerships with the private sector, including
non-government organizations (NGOs), and communities.

The value-added of Bank support included: (i) the Bank's ability to make available international expertise
and best practice to GOB through their large-scale global operations in the nutrition sector; (ii) provision
of financing at a scale that could not be provided by either GOB or any other single donor; and (iii) the
Bank's willingness to coordinate donor and domestic funding for NNP. GOB was committed to a 15-year
program, requiring a substantial increase over their current levels of investment in the sector. Financing
provided by the Bank through NNP more than doubled the level of spending on nutrition.




                                                   1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective of NNP as outlined in Section 1 of the PAD was:

The National Nutrition Project (NNP) will be the first of a series of investments which will support the
Government's 15 year vision to extend community nutrition services to the entire country. This vision is
outlined in the Government's National Nutrition Program and is further developed in the National Plan of
Action. The goal of the national program is to improve nutritional status to the extent that malnutrition
will no longer be a public health problem. NNP will build on experiences and lessons learned from the
recently completed sector work and the on-going IDA supported Bangladesh Integrated Nutritional
Project (BINP). The development objective of NNP is to significantly reduce malnutrition, especially
among poor women and children. This will be achieved through the adoption of new changes in behavior
and appropriate use of nutrition services which will be increasingly managed by local communities. NNP
will establish important links with the Ministry of Education by incorporating general nutrition
knowledge in the school curricula, and increasing the coverage of the Ministry of Women and Children's
Affairs' Vulnerable Group Development Program to the poorest households in the country."

Annex 1 of the PAD lists the PDO as follows: "to achieve sustainable improvements in birth weights and
nutrition status of vulnerable groups, especially among poor women and children, through the adoption of
new behaviors and the appropriate use of nutrition services which were to be increasingly managed by
local communities." The DCA lists a more succinct project objective as follows "to significantly reduce
malnutrition, especially among women and children, through adoption of changes in behavior and
appropriate use of nutrition services".

Key outcome indicators for measuring and monitoring progress identified in Section 1 of the PAD were:
"reduced prevalence of severe and moderate child malnutrition, reduced prevalence of vitamin-A
deficiency and iron deficiency anemia, increased use of iodized salt, increased pre-pregnancy and
pregnancy weight gains, reduced low birth weight, and increased practice of exclusive breastfeeding
followed by timely introduction of complementary foods". The list of KPIs in Annex 1 of the PAD is too
long to be reproduced here.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

More than 5 million children and over 1 million pregnant and lactating women were expected to benefit
from the package of nutrition services provided by the program. The program included a nation-wide
component (for selected services), and a more targeted component for 105 Upazilas for more intensive
services. Specifically:

(i) Primary beneficiaries of the core nutrition services were to be children under two-years of age,
pregnant and breast-feeding women and adolescent girls;

(ii) Primary beneficiaries of the household food security interventions were to be food insecure
households of women in category (i) and reproductive age women with two or fewer children;




                                                    2

(iii) Beneficiaries of the micronutrient interventions included (a) children under age 6; (b) postpartum
women; (c) pregnant/lactating girls/women; (d) unmarried adolescent girls; and (e) the entire community
through iodization of salt.

(iv) In addition, all community members were to benefit from health and nutrition education messages
disseminated through the project.

1.5 Original Components

The original components and financing were as follows:

Component I: Services Component :
(i) the area-based community nutrition (ABCN) Services (US$71.6 million; 57.5% of total cost) which
would: (a) improve behavior practices in critical areas such as breastfeeding, timely introduction of
complementary food and adequate food intake during pregnancy; (b) increase awareness and treatment of
malnutrition in the primary health care system; and (c) provide food security and income generating
activities for the poorest households in the community. This sub-component was implemented through
non-government organizations (NGOs).
(ii) National level nutrition services (US$11.7 million; 9.4% of total cost) which aimed to promote and
protect breastfeeding practices; promote salt iodization; and provide iron folate (IFA) and vitamin A
capsules (VAC) supplementation to specific target groups. These were partially funded by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA).

Component II: Project Support and Institutional Development Component :
(i) Project management and development (US$8.70 million; 7% of total cost) through (a) the
establishment of NNP Program Management Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare (MOHFW); (b) an NGO contract management system; (c) effective linkages between NNP and
Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP); and (d) strengthening the management capacities of
communities and NGOs.
(ii)Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E; US$8 million; 6.4% of total cost) that would (a) establish an
effective project Management Information System (MIS); (b) establish an Independent Quality Assurance
Group (IQUAG); (c) conduct baseline, mid-term and final evaluations; and (d) contract project-based
operations research.
(iiii) Training and Behavioral Change Communications (BCC) (US$24.46 million; 19.7% of total cost) to
build capacity and to foster positive behaviors and nutritional practices.

As with the BINP, NNP was among the largest multi-component nutrition programs implemented in a
developing country. The total Project Cost was US$124.42 million, of which GOB committed US$13.66
million, the Bank committed US$92 million, the Netherlands US$12.5 million (pooled funding), and
CIDA US$6.3 million equivalent (parallel funding). The World Food Program (WFP) provided
additional parallel food assistance for the Vulnerable Group Development (VGD) Program in the amount
of US$32.5 million

1.6 Revised Components

Although the operations portal shows a restructuring in 2003, there was no formal revision of the PDO or
the components nor was the DCA amended. However, by 2003, the project had been formally identified
as a "problem project". A QER was conducted during the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 2003 and the
project was substantially revised by the new task team (Details in Section 7.2)




                                                    3

1.7 Other significant changes

In addition to the design changes at MTR referred to in section 7.2, the project period was extended twice:
first from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005; and then further to August 31, 2006.

The Project Proforma (GOB's program document) was presented for approval to the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) and the Departmental Evaluation Committee and
was approved by GOB only just before the MTR, sanctioning a project cost of US$88.05 million, as
compared to the appraisal cost of US$124.42 million (this meant a surplus of US$36.38 million). The
difference in project costs was largely due to extremely low expenditures during the first two years of the
project, and changes in the exchange rates. As a result, a partial cancellation of SDR 17 million was
effected in June 2003 (PSR 08). A transfer of USD 10 million equivalent had been proposed for Flood
Relief Operations after the floods of July-August 2004, but was not carried through. Despite a substantial
increase in disbursement, in February 2005 savings of USD 15 million equivalent were estimated for Dec
31 2005. In December 2005, disbursements were SDR 41.49 million (USD 58.88 million equivalent;
about 80% of the Credit), with a disbursement Plan forecast of SDR 45.15 million, leaving a surplus of
SDR 6.35 million (USD 9.02 million equivalent) by December 2005. This surplus was then applied
towards the second extension period from January to August 2006. The total utilization of IDA funds as
of August 31, 2006 was SDR 50.75 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR 0.60 million
(US$0.88 million equivalent), to be canceled from the Credit.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation and Design: Project design was based on lessons learned from global experience,
such as India (Tamil Nadu), Indonesia, Guinea-Bissau, Colombia and Bolivia, as well as the
implementation experience that had been achieved from the BINP until then. NNP design therefore
focused on community mobilization for nutrition services provided through a locally selected female part-
time worker; universal child growth monitoring and promotion accompanied by targeted supplementary
feeding; and service delivery through partnerships with NGOs. Then completed sector work (Kabir and
Levinson; 2000) had also pointed out that lack of food per se was not the chief cause of malnutrition in
Bangladesh; health seeking behaviors, social attitudes and a lack of knowledge of nutrition also
contributed substantially. NNP chose to specifically focus on the behavioral change component of
nutrition. The overall technical design of the project was appropriate in the sense that the inputs planned
by the project were technically correct, and responded appropriately to the nature and magnitude of the
under-nutrition problem in Bangladesh. Had the planned inputs been implemented and monitored
efficiently, a high level of impact would have been expected.

However, at the time of preparation of NNP no systematic evaluation of the BINP had yet been
undertaken, so several key lessons with regard to capacity assessment and monitoring were not
incorporated into the design. Most importantly, even though NNP preparation did recognize many
capacity constraints, the project preparation team was under pressure to prepare the NNP project on a
rushed time table in order to respond to the commitment at the highest levels in the Bank as well as the
Bangladeshi leadership. Under the circumstances, they did not put in place strong mechanisms for
management, supervision and accountability for the program, particularly for the NGOs. In addition, the
complexity of the project increased substantially when scaling up from BINP to NNP: (i) additional
national level nutrition services were added to be undertaken across the country; (ii) the household food
security component, which was not well implemented even in BINP, aimed to be more demand-driven
and targeted, required substantial inter-sectoral coordination between the departments of health,



                                                    4

agriculture, food, and livestock; and (iii) a large number of agencies were involved in design and
implementation (See Section 10.2 (b) for details). Further, especially for the house-hold food security
component, in-adequate attention was paid to assessing and strengthening institutional and management
capacity within government and to putting in place the necessary institutional arrangements for
implementing such a complex and intersectoral program. In addition, instead of building upon BINP's
institutional arrangements, the project set up a separate new Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) independent
of the BINP PMU, despite the fact that the project design was essentially similar and was to be
implemented in the same geographic units (Thanas).

Assessment of Risk: Several measures to mitigate critical risks to implementation and sustainability had
been identified during preparation. However, stronger measures were needed to be put in to place to
ensure: (i) readiness for contracting of NGOs; (ii) agreement on a limited number of well-defined and
measurable set of performance indicators and mechanisms for measuring these; (iii) arrangements for
supervision and monitoring of project partners, particularly implementing NGOs; and (iv) arrangements
for strengthened quality of trainings of community ­ level workers who are key to the success of the
program.

Participatory Processes: A good Social Assessment (SA) was carried out as part of preparation
activities; and the findings of the SA and other studies on community acceptance of services, social and
infrastructure aspects of service delivery and community involvement strategies were incorporated into
project design. Stakeholders were invited to provide feedback on project design, and to identify
participatory strategies for implementation. They included NGOs, personnel from related ministries, local
community leaders, religious leaders, the media, and the donor community

2.2 Implementation

Delays in Project Start-Up: The preparation of the project was on a fast track, primarily because of very
high level interest in the Bank to support nutrition interventions in Bangladesh, coupled with high
commitment from the GOB. In the process, the necessary government clearances were not obtained in
advance; and when the project was presented to the ECNEC (the approving authority for all projects in
Bangladesh) after Bank board approval, several contentious issues arose: (i) GOB did not agree to
contract PMU staff at market rates as proposed by the Bank; (ii) rather than handing over all
implementation of ABCN to NGOs, GOB was of the opinion that some GOB-lead-NGO supported
upazilas should be retained; (iii) the sole-sourcing of ICDDR,B for the baseline survey was questioned;
and (iv) a school-feeding program was suggested for inclusion, a proposal that the Bank could not accept
since there was no evidence to support the benefits of this intervention for young child nutrition outcomes.
Resolving these issues and obtaining the approval for the Project Proforma took more than two years. In
addition, the overall strain in the dialogue between the Bank and GOB due to outstanding issues in the
HPSP and the health sector in general added to the delays. As a result, for nearly 2.5 years, a project had
been approved by the Bank's board, but was not approved by government.

Substantial delays in staff recruitment/high staff turnover. As mentioned earlier, NNP built a
parallel/new PMU for the project. In the first 25 months of the project, there were 5 different Executive
Directors (EDs) (plus two acting EDs), and only a third of the staff positions had been filled. Most staff
was drawn from other departments, was with NNP only part-time, and did not have the technical skills to
fulfill their terms of reference.

Readiness for key activities had not been ensured: Although about 80% of project financing was
dedicated to the ABCN component, many preparatory activities for contracting NGOs were not
completed prior to project effectiveness. NGO contracting was delayed further due to an observed lack of
transparency in the selection process. Furthermore, though the checks and balances that were in place to


                                                     5

detect the few instances of lack of transparency in the sourcing of goods and services and safeguards
against undue influence were effective, these could have been more pro-actively implemented.

Institutional issues not addressed: An analysis of the household food security activities under the
predecessor BINP project had suggested that the institutional arrangements for this inter-sectoral
component were not appropriate since they did not foster good supervision, and, accountability and
ownership were weak. Though NNP attempted to adjust the implementation arrangements for the
intersectoral food-security component learning from the BINP experience, the adjustments did not seem
sufficient and did not have the desired effect of better coordination across sectors. During
implementation, there was evidence of mis-targeting and poor implementation of the food security
component but the component was retained because of strong pressures from NGOs and GOB. The
economic impact of the component on household income and additional impact of this component on
nutrition outcomes should have been measured, based on which decisions could have been made on the
viability and impact of this component. From the evidence available, the food security component
(nutrition gardens and poultry for nutrition) was neither implemented efficiently to have contributed
substantially to nutrition improvements; nor could it provide enough additional income through sale of
produce to significantly augment household incomes and additionally, these did not promote sustainable
and locally adapted models. These components have since been discontinued in the transition to HNPSP,
while they are being further reviewed, technically re-designed, and piloted for possible inclusion in other
agriculture-sector operations under more suitable institutional arrangements (not within the health sector).

Mid-Term Review and Reprogramming: The Joint Review Mission of October 2002 found that with
about 50% of project life elapsed, less than 3% of the Credit had been disbursed and no activities had
been initiated in the field. Adopting a pragmatic approach, the team accepted some of the conditions lay
down by the ECNEC, organized a QER to discuss possible strategies for the MTR and developed a
proactive Action Plan to put NNP back on track. The MTR four months later (February 2003) found that
significant progress had been made on the Action Plan; but with only 18 months of the project remaining,
it was highly unlikely that the original activities could be completed as planned ­a major challenge for the
new Task Team. The QER discussed four potential options: 1) cancellation of the entire project, 2)
simplification and restructuring, 3) amalgamation with HPSP, and 4) "prepare for extension" subject to
satisfactory progress from thereon. Based on this advice, and the QER decision not to undertake formal
restructuring of the project, the new Task Team proceeded with an approach of "Rationalized
Programming and Prioritized Implementation" (MTR AM; February 2003), with the intention to be
prepared to extend if sufficient progress was observed from thereon. The project was therefore simplified
to give it a reasonable chance of success in the limited implementation period, by:

    · prioritizing the core activity of ABCN, and key supporting activities such as training, BCC and
        M&E;
    · limiting initial geographic coverage to 103 upazilas (later increased to 105) - the 59 BINP
        upazilas that had already transitioned into NNP and an additional 44 upazilas;
    · measuring project performance (for the next two years) on the basis of revised Project
        Performance Indicators that aimed to reflect more modest objectives.

Further, the QER advised that the PDO was sufficiently generic that it would remain valid even under the
simplified project. Therefore, the new Task Team did not revise the original objective and targets of the
project to make them consistent with the reduced implementation period (apparently also as to avoid
triggering a new approval process). In hindsight, this was an error since a simplified PDO and simplified
KPIs in the system would have significantly improved the chances of "success" for the project. Project
implementation did pick up as a result of this re-programming; and ABCN activities were implemented
with some success, but this success is still modest in comparison with the ambitious and confusing PDO
and KPIs.


                                                     6

Extension of Closing Date: At the time of the MTR (2003), GOB requested a 2-year extension. This
request was deferred by the mission in view of the above, and the issue was again raised by GOB
in December 2004. At the time, the Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP) was well
into preparation, and the implementation of NNP was satisfactory, although substantial funds were still
remaining. Rather than canceling the funds and closing NNP, without an alternative vehicle for nutrition
activities yet in place, it was decided to extend NNP for one year to allow time for HNPSP to become
operational and to allow a smooth transition from NNP to the sector wide HNPSP. In December 2005, the
project was extended once more until August 2006 so that activities under NNP could proceed
uninterrupted until HNPSP had put the necessary implementation arrangements in place to hire the NGOs
through the proposed Management Support Agency (MSA).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: Though a reasonable quality evaluation plan was developed for the project, the delayed start and
the stop-start nature of implementation meant that these plans were not put in to practice as envisaged.
The monitoring indicators for the project were poorly selected and tracked. The impact indicators
specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were not the indicators that were finally tracked in
PSRs/ISRs, and the changes are not documented. The MTR recognized that the indicators were too
numerous and had set unrealistic targets; however, these were not revised. Discussion on the indicators
was re-opened after the first project extension; and although a revised set of indicators was developed,
this was never formally agreed upon and put into Operations Portal. A small sub-set of the original
indicators is reported on; however, the data reported is problematic for the following reasons: (i) the
baseline values for the indicators is unknown; (ii) some of the target values specified in the PAD were
taken from the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), and for others the source is unknown; and (iii)
there was no end-line survey. Further, data cannot be compared with other available data sources as the
sampling and methodology followed are different. In conclusion, the data reported are derived from non-
comparable surveys and from service statistics, and do not represent the "true" situation.

MIS: The BINP MIS model was found to be effective and was adopted by the project, to enable the
project to: (i) appraise coverage of core activities; (ii) ensure that each Community Nutrition Center
(CNC) is fully equipped and functional; and (iii) assess trends in nutritional status. Monthly Performance
Reports (MPRs) were generated monthly from all implementing partners. Time series data were
maintained for several of the indicators, allowing for analysis of progress over time. These monthly
reports were used as the focus of discussion during monthly meetings; and the Bank review mission had
commended NNP for the production and use of the report (AM; January 2006). However, some
questions had been raised regarding the validity of the data and NNP had been requested to re-validate
some of the data through the agreed upon Independent Quality Assurance Survey (IQUAS) Report; 2005.

Independent Quality Assurance Group (IQUAG): The IQUAG was designed for five key purposes: (i)
quality checking of service data; (ii) analysis of service records in response to specific queries; (iii)
independent nutrition surveillance; (v) assessment of behavior change; and (v) execution of special
studies to strengthen service monitoring. Of these, only the following were completed: (i) nutritional
surveillance was carried out by Helen Keller International (HKI), beginning October 2004; and (ii) the
BBS was contracted in April 2005 to assess both the quality of service statistics and of services (IQUAG
Report; 2005. Details Annex 4).

Impact Evaluation: The baseline evaluation was completed in November 2004 by ICDDRB, IPHN and
NIPORT, and subsequently widely disseminated. However given the delayed baseline survey, the short
implementation period and the stop-start nature of implementation, a traditional end-line evaluation



                                                      7

survey may not have been appropriate. Instead, a "Program Audit" was commissioned by the Bank in
order to identify the quality and coverage of services delivered by the different NGOs (Karim et al; 2006).
This was not a traditional end-line impact evaluation survey. However, under the circumstances of the
project where it was unclear as to what level of inputs and outputs had been provided by the project, a
full-blown end-line survey would likely not have yielded much useful information and would have
entailed extensive costs and detraction from implementation. M&E program theory does not advise full-
blown evaluations in such circumstances. Accordingly, the more appropriate programmatic measurement
under the circumstances was to do a program audit that would document the level and quality of service
delivery, as was done by the task team. Over all, the program audit showed that while growth monitoring
and promotion for young children was efficiently implemented with high coverage, maternal food
targeting was not efficient and the garden and poultry component was poorly implemented (Details in
Annex 4 & 8).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Tribal Strategy: Bangladesh has a small tribal population (about 1% of the population). About 40% of
tribals reside in the Chittagong Hill Tracts; and a Tribal Plan was prepared to support a social
development program in this area with UNICEF support. NNP was to collaborate with the on-going
GOB-UNICEF project and pilot test an implementation model with additional infrastructure, tribal
community workers and culturally appropriate training and educational materials. Due to the pressure of
putting the core components on track, neither GOB nor the Bank followed up on this during
implementation. Tribal groups in other districts (Sylhet and Mymensing) were covered under the project,
but there was no separate strategy adopted in these areas.

Environment: The project was rated Environment Category "C" and had no detrimental environmental
impacts.

Procurement: Procurement under the project was consistently rated unsatisfactory, due to poor capacity
and lack of transparency. There were frequent revisions to the Procurement Plan due to two different
extensions of the project. Officers in charge of procurement had no prior experience, and frequent and
arbitrary transfers meant that those who gained some experience through the project were transferred out.
No officer from NNP was ever nominated by MOHFW to participate in the Bank's training programs on
procurement.

There was a delay in contracting NGOs due to issues regarding transparency in procurement of NGO
services. At the Bank's insistence, a committee of DPs and GOB was formed to re-evaluate about a third
of the proposals received, and awards were made based on the recommendations of the committee. The
Bank conducted an independent procurement review of several projects, and found two cases of
misprocurement in NNP (procurement of computers and of deworming tablets). Expenditure for foreign
trainings was deemed ineligible since they had been undertaken without prior clearance from IDA; and
funds were reimbursed in the amount of BDT 21,671,549 (USD333,410 equivalent). In addition, the
February 2005 mission found that MOHFW had directed the ED to initiate fresh bidding to select NGOs
to provide services between July and December 2005 without prior consultation with the Bank, and
strong objections were raised by the mission (AM, Feb 2005). Eventually, it was agreed that the
performance of existing NGOs would be reviewed, and the contracts of those performing satisfactorily
would be extended until the end of the project period.

Financial Management (FM): A reasonable Financial Monitoring and Reporting System were set up
under the project, and reports were submitted to the Bank on a regular basis. A FM unit was set up in the
PMU, with a director heading the unit. The project was able to establish good internal control
arrangements, with approvals and payment functions allocated separately to various departments (AM,


                                                    8

August 2006). However, there have been several audit objections during the project period, some of them
serious. There have been delays in resolving these objections, because of poor coordination between the
MOHFW and the FAPAD. The most critical gap was in the inability of the FM arrangements to prevent
the misuse of some funds on a few occasions. This resulted in special audits, withholding of fund
disbursement and refunds for ineligible expenditures. FM arrangements could have included monitorable
performance indicators, and the definition of eligibility criteria for major third party payments. On the
other hand, the fact that the system was able to detect these instances speaks to its robustness.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

GOB continues to be committed to addressing persistent malnutrition in the country, recognizing the far-
reaching consequences of poor nutritional status. A Revised Operational Plan for the nutrition component
has been developed and approved by the Steering Committee of HNPSP (MOHFW) in April 2006. A
Nutrition Technical-working Group (NTG) has been formed under the Chairmanship of the Joint
Secretary in the MOHFW. The NTG has developed a nutrition services package for inclusion in HNPSP
based on NNP (and BINP) experience with technical support from the Bank. This package was approved
by the GOB and a final package description accepted by the Bank is included in the final supervision
report (August 2006). An MSA is to be contracted for the management of all NGO contracting under
HNPSP, including nutrition services; and the procurement process for this agency has already been
initiated. A study on institutional arrangements for Nutrition services within the MOHFW has been
conducted with support from CIDA, and action on it by MOHFW is awaited. The following have been
prepared for inclusion in HNPSP: (i) Nutrition Services package; (ii) Procurement Plan (2006-10); (iii)
Training Plan; (iv) Training Calendar; and (v) draft Operational Manual.




                                                   9

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Given the disconnect between the articulation of the PDO as listed in section 1 and Annex 1 of the PAD,
the long list of KPIs that were never officially revised, and overly ambitious targets that have never been
achieved in any project to-date, even a well implemented "successful" project could not have achieved the
objectives as they were articulated.

Despite these major shortcomings in articulation (that could have been corrected if a rigorous QER had
been conducted). The overall aim of the project (improving nutrition outcomes) is still very relevant to
the situation in the country and its development priorities. Several CASs since 1994 have stressed the
need to focus on human development through poverty reduction, with nutrition as an important
contributing factor. The objectives were in keeping with the Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
Strategy Paper for Bangladesh, focusing on improving HNP outcomes for the poorest, and building
systems and capacities in government, private sector and communities to better manage and monitor the
nutrition program. The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP; 2002) reiterated the
importance of maternal and child health and nutrition as prerequisites to sustaining poverty
reduction. The full PRSP (December 2005) built upon GOB's National Strategy for Advanced Poverty
Reduction (October 2005), and recognized that achievement of Bangladesh's HNP goals is key to
achieving the MDGs. Of these, reduction in malnutrition was judged to be essential to strengthening
human capital formation and this issue is fully integrated into the final PRSP. The project's aim to have
nutrition services "increasingly managed by local communities" is again relevant in the context of GoB's
capacity constraints and the need to strengthen NGO participation in service delivery. The Bank's
renewed focus on "Repositioning Nutrition as Central to Development" (2006) has reiterated that
focusing nutrition actions on the "window of opportunity" between pre-pregnancy until two years of age
offers the best opportunity for addressing malnutrition. Based on international experience, the technical
design of NNP strategies and interventions was assessed to be appropriate and the inputs planned had the
potential to contribute to the achievement of the project objectives. It was the first phase of a national
expansion of the ABCN model piloted under the BINP; and continues to be the basis for the simplified
nutrition package under HNPSP, with some modifications in implementation arrangements and activities
and a strong emphasis on strengthening management and implementation quality.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall, the design of the nutrition interventions and overall strategy within NNP was technically sound
in that it targeted the right age groups (pregnant and lactating women and children under two years of
age) with the right mix of interventions (growth promotion, nutrition and health education for
mothers/caregivers linked to better access to health care services, and targeted supplementary feeding for
underweight mothers and children; this was supplemented with micronutrient supplementation and
fortification ). To that extent, if the project had been implemented efficiently through appropriate
institutional arrangements, the causal pathway from the inputs to expected outputs and outcomes was
plausible and achievable. And, if the PDO had been carefully stated and measured, it would have been
possible to report on project success.

However, though an evaluation plan was developed for NNP, because of the stop-and-go nature of the
project and the many implementation challenges, the baseline survey for the project was delayed until
2004, and an end-line survey was not conducted because of the implementation challenges. Since it was
too soon to do a follow-on survey, a program audit was conducted instead. The baseline included the
original BINP upazilas, NNP upazilas and control upazilas in 2004. Since this was neither before nor



                                                      10

after the project, these cross-sectional data cannot reflect project impacts, but are interpreted here with
great caution, along with triangulation of data from many other sources. Additional data are available
from the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) for 1997, 2000 and 2004 but these are
national surveys that cover all upazilas. Service statistics are also used as an additional source of data but
these data may be skewed since they report only on service users and not all households. In addition, data
from IQUAG and the end of program audit are used to validate service statistics where available. The
following section attempts to triangulate information and arrive at some conclusions about the progress of
the PDO, given the limitations of each of these data sources, and any attempts in this ICR at attribution of
the results to NNP need to be viewed with these caveats.

PDO Indicator 1: Severe protein-energy malnutrition in children <2 years of age reduced to 5%
(Partially achieved, based on MPR data; no endline data to assess achievement)

PDO Indicator 2: Moderate protein-energy malnutrition in children <2 reduced to 30% (Achieved
even at baseline if this is measured as children between -2 to -3 SD below the norm for underweight; Not
likely to have been achieved if measured as children below -2SD (which is severe plus moderate
underweight); however, there are no endline data to assess whether it was achieved or not)

There was an overall impressive decline in malnutrition in Bangladesh in the period 1997 until 2004
(Table 1). The decline between 1997 and 2000 is significant and this decline coincides with the
implementation of the BINP (NNPs predecessor project). This improvement could be explained in part
by overall improvements in economic status across the country (OED; 2005). However, this is not a likely
and/or complete explanation since similar nutrition improvements are not seen in other countries in the
region that saw even greater improvements in infrastructure and economy, but which did not have well
targeted nutrition interventions. Further, a similar rapid decline is not seen in the 2000-2004 period in
Bangladesh despite continuing improvements in rural infrastructure and economic growth. BDHS data
show that nutrition improvements between 2000 and 2004 were less dramatic; this slowdown could
potentially be attributed to a slowdown of nutrition activities during 2000-2003 due to delays in renewing
NGO contracts and general uncertainties about nutrition activities at that time in the country.
Unfortunately, the 2004 NNP baseline survey data are not directly comparable with the BDHS data, even
for the control upazilas because of different sampling methodologies. However, the 2004 baseline survey
data show very little difference in key indicators between NNP, BINP and control upazilas. (Differences
are statistically insignificant, see Table 1). There are many potential reasons for this apparent lack of
difference between control and project areas in 2004. These are: 1) many of the control areas were
implementing BINP/NNP-type activities supported by smaller NGOs, thereby "contaminating" the
control areas and reducing a measurable difference between the two; 2) in project areas, services were
constantly disrupted in the first few years (2000-2004), first due to delayed GOB approvals, and later
because of NGO advocacy and implementation challenges; and 3) because of the break in services
between BINP and NNP, many of the good practices and services instilled in BINP times may have been
eroded by 2004 when a new cohort of young children were being measured for the "baseline".

While no time-series data are available for comparison across baseline and endline to assess change in
PDO indicators over the project period, it appears that the PDO 1 target was only partially achieved
(based on project monitoring data), while the PDO 2 target was achieved even at baseline 2004 (See
Table 1 Row 2 for details). Program service statistics from the MPR (Aug 2006; See Datasheet &
Borrower's ICR) show that severe malnutrition (underweight) in children <2 years of age reduced from
24% in September 2004 to about 16% in May 2006 ­ this is a slower rate of decline than was targeted
(from about 12% to 5% over a period of five years). These differences in baseline values may be because
of different growth references used to assess growth. However, given the shorter implementation period
and the higher initial rates, this rate of reduction (from 24 to 16%) seems reasonable. PDO target for
moderate underweight 2 seems to have been achieved even at baseline (baseline values range from 29-


                                                      11

30%; target was 30%, monitoring data suggest 25% in August 2006; IQUAG data show 27% in 2005).
However, it is unclear from the PAD/results framework whether this target refers to moderate
underweight only (which is children between -2 SD and -3SD) or to moderate plus severe underweight
(which is <-2SD). Overall, the lack of clarity in setting targets and clear indicators detracts from the
conclusions.

Under the circumstances, attributing any improvements to the project itself is difficult, since the required
data are not available for such an analysis. Some earlier multivariate analyses on BINP data have
concluded that rural nutrition in both project and non-project BINP areas had improved due to
improvements in women's schooling, increased access to safe water and rural electrification, all of which
have benefited rural areas to a greater extent (OED 2005) while another report suggests that the BINP
program may have had a role to play in this observed improvement (Pelletier et al; 2006). The fact that
similar improvements in nutrition outcomes have not been seen in other South Asian countries that have
had similar improvements in infrastructure and economies (e.g. India) suggests that the nutrition
interventions may in fact have had a role in the observed improvements (see also Section 8.4)

         Table 1: Selected Indicators 1997-2004 ­ Percent of Malnourished children in Bangladesh
                                   BDHS         BDHS         BDHS        NNP 2004 Baseline
                                   1997         2000         2004
                                   (< 5 yrs)    (< 5 yrs)    (< 5 yrs)   (< 5 yrs)            (< 2 yrs)
         Underweight Wt/age        56.4         47.6         47.5        NNP=44.9             NNP=40.5
         (< -2 SD; includes severe                                       BINP=48.3            BINP=40.7
         and moderate)                                                   Control=45.3         Control=40.7
                                                                         All areas=46.0       All areas=40.7
         Underweight Wt/age        35.7         34.7         34.7        NNP=32.5             NNP=28.8
         (< -2 to -3 SD =                                                BINP=36.6            BINP=30.2
         Moderate Malnutrition.                                          Control=32.9         Control=29.3
                                                                         All areas=33.8       All areas=29.3
         Severe Underweight        20.7         12.9         12.8        NNP=12.4             NNP=11.7
         Wt/age                                                          BINP=11.7            BINP=10.5
         (< -3 SD)                                                       Control=12.4         Control=11.4
                                                                         All areas=12.2       All areas=11.4
         Stunting Ht/age           54.7         44.6         43.0        NNP=41               NNP=36.1
         (< -2 SD; includes severe                                       BINP=40.2            BINP=33.9
         and moderate)                                                   Control=39.5         Control=34.5
                                                                         All areas=40.5       All areas=35.3
         Severe Stunting Ht/age    28.1         18.2         16.9        NNP=14.6             NNP=11.5
         ( <-3 SD)                                                       BINP=13.7            BINP=10.4
                                                                         Control=13.6         Control=11.3
                                                                         All areas=14.2       All areas=11.2
         Wasting Wt/ht             17.7         10.3         12.8        NNP=12.6             NNP=13.5
         (< -2 SD; includes severe                                       BINP=13.2            BINP=13.2
         and moderate)                                                   Control=13.1         Control=13.3
                                                                         All areas=12.9       All areas=13.4
         Severe Wasting Wt/ht      3.7          1.0          1.3         NNP=1.4              NNP=1.7
         (< -3 SD)                                                       BINP=1.2             BINP=1.6
                                                                         Control=0.9          Control=1.1
                                                                         All areas=1.3        All areas=1.6
        Note:
        · Severe malnutrition is defined as <-3 Standard Deviations from the mean (NCHS reference standards)
        · Moderate malnutrition is defined as between -2 to -3 Standard Deviations from the mean (NCHS reference
            standards)
        · BDHS data represents Nationwide surveys; NNP, BINP and Control represent data from the NNP baseline
            survey for NNP, BINP, and Control thanas in 2004




                                                     12

In addition, the data from table 1 suggest that malnutrition rates are very high by the time children are two
years of age. This confirms the project assumption that actions must be targeted at children before two
years of age.

PDO Indicator 3: Prevalence of night blindness among children aged 1-5 sustained at <0.5% (This is an
indicator for Vitamin A deficiency)

The target for PDO 3 was achieved and sustained over the project period. The proportion of children
aged 18-59 months with night blindness in rural Bangladesh has been reduced to 0.04%. 96 million VAC
were procured by NNP in 2005 and 2006 to be distributed nationwide twice a year to all children 1-5
years of age and to those suffering from diarrhea, measles and severe malnutrition. Bangladesh has been
able to sustain a high level of coverage of vit-A supplementation (82% coverage for children under 5 -
HKI, 2005). These data are consistent with the above results, and the achievements are directly
attributable to the project.

Other key outcome indicators for measuring and monitoring progress identified in the PAD were:
"reduced prevalence of iron deficiency anemia, increased use of iodized salt, increased pre-pregnancy and
pregnancy weight gains reduced low birth weight, and increased practice of exclusive breastfeeding
followed by timely introduction of complementary foods". But the data for assessing achievement of
these indicators are extremely limited.

Information on a few selected PDO indicators for these targets are listed below:

     · Incidence of low birth weight(<2500g) reduced to 30%: No reliable data are available, however,
        overall prevalence of low birth-weight in Bangladesh remains at about 30% so the PDO seems to
        have been met, perhaps even before the project.

     · Prevalence of anemia among women reduced by 1/3: PDO not achieved since anemia rates in
        Bangladesh continue to be high.

     · Prevalence of iodine deficiency (urinary iodine excretion < 30 g/dl) reduced to 50%: No data are
        available on urinary iodine, but salt iodisation coverage is 86% according to the program audit
        data. This is also confirmed by high nation-wide coverage reported by UNICEF, so PDO is likely
        to have been met.

     · 25 % of all infants are exclusively breastfed for first 6 months: PDO seems to be have been met
        as per monthly project monitoring reports (MPR) for 2006 (49% exclusive breast feeding);
        however, national level exclusive breast-feeding rate was only 9% in 2004 (BDHS, 2004). The
        two data sources are not comparable, but this discrepancy also suggests that MPR data may not
        be reliable, even after accounting for the fact that they are based on program participants only. If
        indeed, project children did receive longer periods of breastfeeding, then the project objective
        was achieved, but we have no way of verifying this with any level of confidence. It is, however,
        relevant to mention here that the evaluation of the predecessor project (BINP) showed that
        changes in such behaviors had indeed been achieved with similar inputs and strategies as used in
        NNP, albeit at a smaller rate.

Additional information on some of the original PDO indicators specified in the PAD is available from the
MPRs (but again, these are monitoring data to be used with caution).




                                                   13

    · Of 312,552 pregnant women registered under the project, 297,840 (95%) were monitored for
         weight gain during pregnancy. Of them, only 9,118 gained the desired 9+kgs (3% compared to a
         planned target of 50%).

    · Of 31,271 live newborns registered in May 2006, 29,394 babies were weighed (94%). Of them,
         only 3,178 were underweight (10% compared to a target of <30%).

According to MPR data, more than 99% of babies received colostrum at birth; about 49% were
exclusively breastfed until 6 months of age (compared with a target of 25%). About 98% of children were
fed with complementary foods at home after six months of age. These compare very favorably with
BDHS data for 2004 (exclusive breast feeding rates = 9%) but the two data are not comparable and so
conclusions are not possible.

3.3 Efficiency

No Net Present Value /economic rate of return was estimated for this ICR since a) the benefit is largely a
global public good, and b) accurate estimates of impact were not available for such an estimation. At the
time of preparation, standard public finance criteria were applied to examine the role of government in
financing nutrition interventions. Public financing was justified for certain interventions, such as
information dissemination and community mobilization since such public goods would not otherwise be
provided by the market. Addressing malnutrition among mothers and children was found to have
quantifiable positive externalities. Experience with the BINP, and analysis of capacity within government,
indicated that contracting out service delivery would be more effective and sustainable than direct
provision through the public sector. This same procedure was followed in NNP.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Although Bangladesh is the only country in the South Asia region that may achieve the nutrition MDG of
halving under-weight rates between 1990 and 2015, the overall outcome rating for the PDO is Moderately
Unsatisfactory. This is primarily because there are not enough evaluation data to allow firm conclusions
about the achievement of the PDO and the projects contribution to this overall improvement. However, it
is known that (a) the similar predecessor BINP model contributed to substantive improvements in
knowledge and health-seeking behaviors (Pelletier et al; 2006); (b) the end of program audit shows
adequate coverage and targeting of the program inputs for young children albeit not for mothers (Karim et
al; 2006); (c ) the design of the interventions and inputs suited the program needs; (d) the project has
contributed to substantial political commitment and awareness of nutrition issues in the country at all
levels, and (e) the project had significant though not easily quantifiable impacts on gender, women's
empowerment, poverty, social change, etc (see below). Further, it has high Vitamin A and salt iodisation
coverage that has been sustained over time. These achievements are likely related to direct nutrition
investments (NNP and before that BINP). Though other donor partners were implementing nutrition-
relevant activities in the country, either these were at a small enough scale where they could not have had
such an impact at national scale, or these were activities that were done in synchronization with NNP (for
example Vitamin A supplementation was jointly supported by NNP, CIDA and UNICEF) and so the
achievements are to be shared across these joint efforts. Such improvements are not evident in other
countries in the region (e.g. India) that have experienced higher economic growth and greater investments
in rural infrastructure but no in well-targeted nutrition investments. Further, many of the short comings
of the project are related to the short implementation time-frame, the start-stop nature of the program
and the considerable implementation challenges. All of this had a major impact on the inability to put a
proper evaluation in place, and the ambiguous PDO and targets further detracted from the inability to



                                                    14

measure impact. So, even if impact was achieved and if the project did contribute to the substantial
improvements in nutrition outcomes in Bangladesh, it was neither possible to document it unequivocally,
nor to attribute it to the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Malnutrition is the non-income face of poverty. It is not only an outcome of poverty, but is also a cause,
and the NNP was an attempt to break this vicious cycle of malnutrition and poverty, with a special
emphasis on women and children. All 23,244 CNPs selected under NNP project were women; and they
were significantly empowered due to their role in the community and the respect of community members
for the "Pushti Aapa" (the popular name for Community Nutrition Promoters, CNPs). The community's
appreciation of the services rendered by the CNPs resulted in their being regarded as role models; and this
was a powerful incentive for them, despite the modest honorarium.

Most of NNP beneficiaries were women: 0.31 million pregnant women; 0.26 million lactating mothers;
1.5 million adolescent girls (13-19 years); 0.17 million newly-wed women benefited under the project. As
of June 2006, supplementary food was provided to 56,498 under-nourished women, 21,567 lactating
women and 98,869 malnourished infants (7-24 months old). IFA tablets were distributed to 232,868
pregnant women and VAC to 28,948 lactating mothers. The project addressed issues of poverty
alleviation, women's empowerment and improved nutrition for the poorest. In collaboration with the
WFP, the VGD-NNP Implementation Collaboration Project provided food aid to the poorest households.
66,888 women in 53 upazilas were reached by the program. One evaluation of the program showed
that (i) 93% of the women received food aid for the full cycle of 24 months; (ii) almost all women began
saving and availed of credit to support income generation activities; and (iv) awareness of selected
social/legal issues was high. About 80% were aware of sanctions against dowry and early marriage; and
about 80% were aware of the correct treatment for diarrhea (NIPORT, 2005).

In a conservative and traditional society, NNP (and the BINP before it) was able to bring about
observable social change. Superstitions against weighing and measuring of children have been overcome,
and women are coming forward to have their children's weight monitored regularly. The same is true of
pregnant women, and awareness of the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women has also
increased. The adolescent girls' forums have provided a venue for young girls, who are traditionally
confined to their homes after school hours, to develop a supportive social environment in which to discuss
their social and health problems. Overall, the project has provided avenues for women to interact and
learn about their nutritional and health needs. (Source: Personal communication with community
members, beneficiaries and project officials).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional development impact of the project is Moderate. NNP was implemented by a PMU that
reported to the MOHFW. The PMU was set up as an independent entity (though it did not build on
previous BINP PMU capacity) and was, in theory, provided with the necessary autonomy and flexibility
to strengthen implementation capacity. An important part of the original NNP strategy was to staff the
PMU with competent professionals, who were to be paid market rates. This proposal was not accepted by
the ECNEC, as a result of which PMU staff were largely drawn from other governmental departments.
Although this was meant to enhance a closer link with the regular institutions and regulations of the
MOHFW, implementation quality of the program suffered as a result. With the merger of NNP into
HNPSP, the role of the PMU will be substantially reduced over time; NGO contracting and management



                                                   15

for ABCN, the core of the program, will be taken over by the MSA shortly to be contracted under
HNPSP. Over time GOB will need to reflect on the proposals and fiscal implications of the proposed
longer-term institutional arrangements for nutrition and make firm decisions on this issue.

The NNP project overall had a positive impact on institutional strengthening in the following ways:

NGO capacity building: NNP was to have contracted a number of "mother" NGOs, who would in turn
contract and mentor many smaller NGOs. Although this dramatic increase in GOB-NGO partnership
envisaged in the PAD could not be implemented due to delays in project start-up, the project did
substantially expand NGO capacity to implement community-based nutrition interventions in the country.
The project involved several large and credible NGOs as well as smaller NGOs in implementation. These
NGOs have grown and established themselves as credible implementing partners with the capacity
building, monitoring systems and exposure they have received under NNP. HNPSP will benefit from this
expanded capacity when scaling up nutrition activities. However, one of the larger NGOs (BRAC) has
withdrawn from nutrition project implementation at the end of NNP, and it is unclear what impact this
will have on nutrition service delivery under HNPSP.

Establishing a Nutrition Technical working Group: A consortium of GOB, NGOs and DPs has been
created under HNPSP, which is committed to nutrition in Bangladesh, and is able to support GOB and the
Bank. NNP has created a Nutrition Technical working Group which is drawn from this consortium, and
will support HNPSP both technically and operationally. One of the first tasks of this group has been the
rationalization and streamlining of the package of nutrition interventions that will be mainstreamed in to
HNPSP.

Moving to a sector-wide approach: There has been a systematic, albeit preliminary and slow
progression from a project-based approach towards a programmatic approach of which NNP (and BINP
before that) was an important part. The initial scaling-up of nutrition activities undertaken by NNP
provided an impetus to the overall commitment of GOB to integrate and mainstream nutrition into the
health agenda, as reflected in the inclusion of nutrition in HNPSP. Nutrition issues have been explicitly
addressed in both the CAS and the PRSP, as well as in GOB's policy documents on long-term
development and poverty reduction. This is evidence of a broad-based acceptance and understanding of
the central role of nutrition in overall development, something that is yet to happen in many other
developing countries. As NNP is gradually starting the process of moving from a project to the inclusion
of nutrition under the HNP sector program, a stronger and more sustainable institutional base is being
developed in the country. The greatest challenge for nutrition within the HNP SWAp context will be to
ensure that it does not get side-lined within the larger health agenda.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The impact of the project on empowerment of women and adolescent girls was another positive outcome
of the project (see 8.5 (a) above). In addition, the CNPs are now a trained cadre of staff available at the
community level (albeit with high turnover) for the implementation of other health and family welfare
activities. CNPs are regularly being used for immunization and family planning campaigns; and it is
likely that their role will be expanded in delivering other community-based interventions. This should be
done cautiously, since the primary task of the CNP in the nutrition program is far from completed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

See Annex 5




                                                    16

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Risk to development outcomes is rated Moderate. While GOB's commitment to substantially reducing
malnutrition in the country is high, there are some persisting issues:

Financial: With NNP being merged with the overall HNPSP SWAp, funding for the nutrition program
will be continued. The package of nutrition services proposed for HNPSP is based on the lessons learned
to-date and the long-term costs of the program. The targeting of food supplementation is to be more
carefully undertaken, and includes an exit/graduation strategy to reduce costs and dependence.

Technical: The overall approach adopted by NNP, based on the experience of the BINP as well as other
international models, will be retained, with some adjustments. Emphasis will be given to better targeting,
capacity building and program monitoring, with a view to enhancing the efficiency and cost-effectiveness
of the program. Male participation and of other family decision makers will be emphasized as an effective
strategy for enhancing community mobilization translating better knowledge into good HNP practices.
Follow-up investments will focus on quality of implementation, including quality of training of workers,
and quality and timeliness of supervision and M&E.

Institutional: The PMU set up under NNP is to be dissolved over time as GOB is reviewing longer-term
institutional arrangements for nutrition; a Management Support Agency (MSA) will be established within
the MOHFW to manage the hiring of NGOs for all HNP activities, including nutrition. This model has
been tested under the Global Fund for TB, AIDS and Malaria, and seems feasible; however, there have
already been delays in getting a suitable agency on board since the MSA is being identified through a
global competitive process. A Performance Monitoring Agency (PMA) to act as an external audit and
quality assurance mechanism for the functioning of the MSA as well as other aspects of HNPSP will be
put into place. In addition, there is a possibility that the nutrition component may get lost in the overall
HNPSP, since it is a smaller part of the program. This risk must be carefully managed in implementing
HNPSP.

Social: Social acceptance of the project is strong. Substantial community mobilization has taken place
under NNP and the BINP before it and behavior change strategies adopted under NNP have resulted in
households and communities recognizing that nutrition is an important issue, particularly for the
vulnerable groups.

Political: Nutrition interventions have moved from the "project" approach of BINP and NNP to the more
sustainable long-term approach taken by HNPSP, ensuring more sustainable political and funding support
for the program. GOB has made addressing malnutrition central to its effort to achieve the Millennium
Development Goals in its PRSP. It is important that due diligence is exerted to prevent undue influence
on appointment and transfer of staff, selection of partner NGOs, length of contracts, proper targeting and
sourcing of inputs




                                                     17

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

No formal or informal Quality Enhancement Review was done at the start of the project, though a review
of the PCD was done in September1998 via teleconference. Several DPs and two peer reviewers
participated in the review. Many DPs and other stakeholders were also consulted early in preparation and
brought on board to support the development of specific components. However, these reviews do not
seem to have flagged the key constraints/risks for the project (Minutes of PCD Review, Sep 1998). A
rigorous review at this point of the project could have substantially improved the project by:

Matching project design to implementation capacity: To respond to the high level of political
commitment, the preparation team replicated and scaled up key aspects of BINP without being able to
wait for a comprehensive evaluation. Additional components at the national level were also included. The
challenge of building capacity in the public and private sectors in order to maintain program quality while
scaling up a complex program with numerous implementing entities was not adequately addressed.
Stronger mechanisms for monitoring, management, supervision and training were needed to manage this
complex operation. In the absence of such capacities, the project could have aimed for a simpler set of
objectives and components.

Agreeing on a well-defined and measurable set of indicators and have a system in place to measure them:
Indicators chosen to monitor progress towards achievement of PDOs were too numerous; were
ambiguous and confusing since one indicator sometimes had multiple dimensions; were sometimes
beyond the control of the project; and many were not amenable to precise and regular measurement. For
example, the indicator on appropriate (quantity/quality /frequency) complementary feeding involved three
independent variables, none of which were appropriately measured. Recognizing these problems, many
indicators were later revised or dropped, though this was not documented in the system.

Putting in place a mechanism for supervising and monitoring all project partners: Several agencies such
as UNICEF, ICDDR,B, IPHN and BRAC were identified to implement specific activities, in the interests
of expediting implementation, and/or in recognition of their prior association and experience with
BINP. However, the associated risks were not recognized: since these agencies had been specified in the
legal documents, and changing them would involve further delays due to obtaining approvals in both the
Bank and GOB. This reduced the PMUs ability to negotiate with these agencies on the schedule, content
and quality of their activities. The agencies were later unresponsive to requests from NNP and the Bank
for work-plans and measurable outputs. Formats for monitoring NGOs, the main implementers of the
project, were not developed, and no system of regular oversight was in place.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The initial delays in project start-up, and the
poor initial design were later off-set by the realistic and proactive role of the new task team in trying to
get the project back on track, particularly during the MTR. The MTR was used as an opportunity to re-set
realistic goals for the project and to scale down project activities to fit within the reduced timeframe, with
an opportunity for extension of the project if progress was satisfactory. Subsequent missions were
regularly undertaken, jointly with other DPs, and used to conduct comprehensive reviews of all aspects of
project implementation. AMs and PSR/ISRs are a rich source of information and analysis of difficult



                                                     18

issues faced during implementation. The ISR ratings however, tell a different story. For the first two
years, despite the fact that the project was essentially non-functional, ISR ratings for implementation
progress were rated as "satisfactory". In mid-2002-mid-2003 it was rated as "unsatisfactory" and was
formally identified as a "problem project". After the MTR, it was rated "satisfactory" in four subsequent
ISRs until end 2005, when it was rated "moderately satisfactory". This ICR concludes that while the ISR
ratings after 2003 were fair, and responsive to changes in project status, that was not the case before 2003.
Before 2002, the ratings do not correspond to project status. However, after 2003, the missions were used
to identify problems and offer solutions, including on technical and fiduciary issues. The staff
specializations were reasonably well-balanced and the new task team was both realistic and extremely
proactive in putting the project back on track.

However

    · There were five changes in Bank TTLs over the course of the project. Despite the fact that there
         was some overlap of tenure to facilitate team continuity, this turnover caused disruptions in
         dialogue with the government, for example with regard to monitoring indicators. New TTLs had
         to familiarize themselves with the project and all the partners. This was compounded by frequent
         strikes/hartals which further ate into available mission time.
    · Bank guidelines did not allow project extension at the time of re-programming (MTR), and later
         extensions were agreed to in a piecemeal manner. These extensions were granted in the context of
         previous project delays and the future potential for merging NNP into HNPSP. This lead to
         uncertainty of tenure among field staff, resulting in some attrition. It also diverted the focus of the
         PMU towards developing action plans for the period of extension and distracted attention from
         day-to-day implementation.
    · Monitoring of project performance indicators was poorly done. Despite an informal
         "restructuring" of the project in 2003, the indicators and targets were never formally revised in
         the system to reflect the reduced project timeframe and less ambitious goals. This decision was
         based on the advice from a QER done at the time of the restructuring (see Section 7.2).
         Furthermore, data on key indicators was not regularly reported or updated.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall, across the project period Bank performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory (This overall
rating is based on an assessment of Bank performance as unsatisfactory for the period of preparation
through the following two years of supervision, and moderately satisfactory thereafter). This seems to be
the case, not only for this project, but for several projects in the health sector during this period (HPSP,
HIV/AIDS) and may be reflective of the then culture in the Bank wherein TTLs and supervision teams
were likely not encouraged to report unsatisfactory project progress. However, despite deficiencies in
project preparation and subsequent problems during implementation, the new task team for this project
was pro-active in re-programming activities so that core components could be completed as best as
possible. In addition, the Bank was able to move the nutrition agenda forward; and over time, pave the
way to shift from a project-based to a sector-wide approach. And, Bangladesh is now the only country in
South Asia that is likely to achieve the nutrition MDG ­ this is no small achievement, given all the
challenges.




                                                     19

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Notwithstanding the good performance of some individuals within MOHFW/PMU, implementation is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

    · GOB did not clear the project as negotiated. Several contentious issues were raised after
        negotiations and resolving them took more than two years.
    · There were delays in initially contracting the NGOs responsible for service delivery. This was
        largely because the process followed was not transparent, leading the Bank to recommend that a
        committee be formed to re-evaluate the bidding and selection process. This caused a further delay
        of about 8 months.
    · Many human resource issues impeded project implementation. There was frequent turnover of
        staff in the PMU, particularly of key posts such as the Executive Director (ED), as well as the
        Health Secretary, and there was no sustained project leadership except until the last two years of
        project implementation. Several professional posts were either vacant or filled after significant
        delays. Many staff were on secondment from other government departments, and not available
        full-time for NNP. They were also mainly career bureaucrats, without the skills and qualifications
        specified in their terms of reference; as a result, many technical functions suffered. For example,
        there was no Procurement Specialist who was trained in Bank procurement procedures.
    · NGOs were sometimes contracted for service delivery for only 6-months at a time, causing
        uncertainty for their staff and preventing them from properly planning their activities over a
        longer term. There were also delays in renewal of contracts and payments; this lead to disruption
        in services and resulted in one large NGO withdrawing from the project altogether during the
        transition to HNPSP. The reasons stated by the one major NGO for withdrawing its services
        during the last extension period were: (i) ad-hoc-ism in decision-making, (ii) delays in supply of
        equipment and material, (iii) inflexibility in design and lack of potential for innovation, and (iv)
        short-term contracts which impeded strategic planning of activities.
    · The above situation was partially compounded by the piecemeal project extensions. NNP
        officials stated that this disrupted their planning process; and preparing for HNPSP during the
        extension period distracted their attention from implementation of NNP.
    · Both technical and managerial supervision were weak. PMU staff rarely went to the field since
        they felt that the travel allowance sanctioned by GOB was not adequate to cover costs. Except
        for a few exceptions, many NNP staffers were not technically competent to provide useful
        guidance.

Following the Joint Review Mission in September 2002, and particularly after the MTR in February 2003,
project implementation did pick up, although still at a slow pace. The PMU was fully involved in the
restructuring of the project during the MTR; and subsequently the staffing situation improved, with a full-
time ED. A computerized financial management system was developed and made operational, as a result
of which Financial Management Reports were generated in a timely manner. By December 2003, GOB
had in the new PRSP re-affirmed its commitment to improving nutrition among the poorest, and by
August 2006 had integrated the revised nutrition activities within HNPSP. NNP initiated consultations
between key stakeholders to develop new concepts and options for nutrition in Bangladesh by holding 7
regional and one national level workshop between August and November 2005; and completed the
requisite preparatory activities, albeit slower than was hoped for.




                                                     20

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The core activities of NNP were implemented by NGOs contracted by the PMU; in addition, the BCC
component was contracted out to UNICEF, and promotion of breastfeeding to the Bangladesh
Breastfeeding Foundation (BBF). A comprehensive review of the performance of NGOs implementing
the project was undertaken by the Bank (Karim et al, 2006). The review found that (i) the NGOs
generally had the requisite staff, supplies and facilities; (ii) training provided to CNPs and women group
members was satisfactory; and (iii) delivery of services was reasonably good. Almost all CNCs were
conducting regular GMP sessions, as well as providing supplementary feeding and nutrition counseling.
However, the review noted that the staff competence and targeting of services were not as good as
expected. NGOs were also not effective in implementing household food security interventions, and
these will now be re-designed.

UNICEF: The BCC activities were sole-sourced to UNICEF. There were initial delays in signing the
MOU; thereafter, UNICEF developed a Strategic Plan for Behavior Change Communication (November
2003). Based on this plan, US$1.38 million were spent until December 2004, and a further US$3.6
million until December 2005. UNICEF did develop a plan for activities during the second extension
period; however, NNP approved this only in May/June 2006 and with only two months remaining for
project closing, and UNICEF declined further involvement with NNP. Overall, the materials produced by
UNICEF were judged by both the Bank and GOB to lack strategic focus, focusing more on secondary and
tertiary audiences. The primary audience - the household level, where nutritional and caring practices
most need to be changed - were not seriously addressed. Baseline survey data, although delayed, was not
analyzed and used as a basis for planning.

BBF: The BBF, although funded by NNP, had weak linkages to NNPs community-based
activities. Despite recommendations from Bank missions, BBF activities were not integrated with ABCN
at the CNC level; but focused on national and international audiences. An external evaluation of this
activity had been recommended in March 2004, but was not done. Overall, the BBF was a weak
implementing entity; and an audit supported by CIDA also noted concerns

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Despite problems with start-up, NNP was able to re-commit itself and GOB to the goal of improving
nutrition outcomes in Bangladesh. The project contributed towards the building up of a policy base for
nutrition in Bangladesh and towards strengthening appropriate HNP behaviours and practices and
Bangladesh is likely to achieve the nutrition MDG. Preparatory activities towards including nutrition in
HNPSP and the PRSP were completed albeit after several delays; and the goal of having a long-term
program to address malnutrition in the country is closer to being realized. However, the project could
have contributed much more to actual impact, to learning on effective interventions, and to establishing
effective models for scaling-up.




                                                    21

6. Lessons Learned

NNP project design was technically sound. Much of the lack of success noted in this ICR is because of
weak implementation. Therefore, the key lessons from NNP were operational in nature.

Operational lessons:

Targets and PDO: The PDO should be precise and carefully crafted, and the Results Matrix should
contain a small list of key indicators, which are quantifiable, well defined, unambiguous and amenable to
regular measurement. A plan should be in place to make baseline data on these indicators available at the
earliest, with all preliminary steps to hiring an agency to conduct the surveys (if necessary) already
completed.

One of the key lessons learned in NNP (which was also evident in BINP) is that projects can set
themselves up for failure by defining overly ambitious, ambiguous, and un-measurable targets. NNP is a
case in point. The project had an overall vision to "improve nutritional status to the extent that
malnutrition will no longer be a public health problem". The reduction of malnutrition from the high
levels prevalent in Bangladesh, to a level whereby it is not a public health problem has not been achieved
in any country within a period of fifteen years. The PDO, as listed in the DCA is more succinct (though
the one in the PAD is not so), but the indicators for measuring progress against this PDO are ambitious
and unclear. Further, baseline values for many KPIs were not identified at the start of the project. In some
cases, the KPI targets seemed to have been achieved even at baseline (e.g moderate malnutrition). In other
cases, they were simply un-achievable: And, in yet other cases, the indicators were not
easily measurable. These were major challenges for the project, especially vis a vis PSRs and the ICR.

Government approvals: Future projects must address possible contentious issues early on in project
preparation by working closely with government. Keeping key political and bureaucratic stakeholders in
the loop is essential so that when the time comes they will provide crucial support. Key government
approvals (such as from ECNEC) must be obtained before project negotiations and Bank board approval.

Assess available capacity when scaling-up a successful project. The process of scaling up should be
undertaken with care. An essential prerequisite is to have a robust evaluation of the pilot, so that lessons
learned can be incorporated into the new project. Political and bureaucratic commitment and institutional
arrangements for effective scaling up should be carefully assessed and adjusted for (e.g. the poultry and
garden component). New elements should be added with caution, keeping in mind the capacity of the
implementing agency. An assessment of the management capacity and available institutional
arrangements should be undertaken early on and adequate investments should be planned in strengthening
these constraints. Efforts such as the set up of a MSA under HNPSP are steps in this direction.

Maintain continuity of staff, with appropriate skills. Frequent changes of leadership and turnover of
staff both within the Bank and the borrower, and among the implementing agencies are detrimental to
implementation. Continuity of activities and ideas is essential to build upon previous initiatives and work
according to an agreed upon strategy. New officers take time to familiarize themselves with their staff
and project activities. This can be minimized by a strong technical cadre within a PMU that can advise the
PD and keep the project on track. Having career bureaucrats occupy technical positions not only denies
the project technical expertise, but also leads to a lack of continuity since bureaucrats are subject to
frequent transfer. This was a major concern, both in government, and in the Bank, and HNPSP will need
to pay special attention to this issue.




                                                     22

Enhance program impact through decentralizing decision-making, incentives and accountability.
Most of the decisions in NNP were centralized within the weak PMU. Implementing NGOs had very little
authority to make informed decisions based on their knowledge of the programming context that varied
from upazila to upazila. Allowing for this flexibility in future operations will promote harmonization of
interventions, implementation and the local context/needs. It would also (i) reduce mismatch between
interventions and context, such as mis -targeting of services, non-performing staff, low participation rates;
(ii) reduce time elapsed in the feedback loop between when mismatches actually occur and when they get
reported; and (iii) reduce the response time in being able to take corrective action. However, this requires
considerable flexibility and careful planning by government and the Bank.

Provide additional assistance in preparing follow-on operations. Preparing a follow-on operation well
in time, as in the case of HNPSP, is important so that there is minimal interruption of services after
project closing. However, additional hands should be brought on board specifically to plan the new
operation; project staff should focus on implementing the on-going operation. Having parallel activities to
be performed by the same team confuses their priorities; and both activities suffer as a result.

Procurement. Monitoring of NGO contracting is particularly important since it is often subjected to
undue influence from political/bureaucratic bosses. The MSA proposed under HNPSP could perhaps
safeguard against this. Procurement staff should receive several rounds of training in Bank guidelines and
procurement procedures; and continuity of procurement staff as well as other management staff should be
ensured.

Technical lessons:

Keep flexibility in project design to be able to adjust project components based on emerging
evidence from operations research. To give one example of the need for this flexibility in project
design, there are a number of reasons why the supplementary feeding program under NNP (and BINP
earlier) may not have not fully contributed to the goals of improved growth among children, weight gain
in pregnant women or birth weight of infants. These include: mis-targeting, sharing of supplementary
food, substitution of home food with project food so it is not additional, inadequate ration sizes, or other
biological and social factors. Several suggestions have been offered to make supplementary feeding more
effective such as verification of beneficiaries, giving incentives to CNPs and beneficiaries for regular
service provision, clarifying exit criteria and so on (details in Pelletier et al, 2006). It is important to re-
visit the design of this component, keeping in mind the costs and human resource implications of the
program. This is now being done under HNPSP.

Focus BCC efforts at community level. Since behavior change needs to occur among poor, often
illiterate women in rural settings, it is important that the focus of BCC activities through inter-personal
communication at the grassroots level is intensified even further. Strengthening the counseling skills of
CNPs, ensuring the involvement of other influential family members such as the husband and mother-in-
law, as well as community leaders and organizations should be the core of the future BCC strategy. A
clear work plan, focused on the appropriate target audiences, should be agreed before contracts are signed
with the implementing agencies.

Sustained effort required to address malnutrition in Bangladesh. Malnutrition is a multi-dimensional
problem, involving a host of socio -economic and cultural factors. The move towards a SWAp from a
project-based approach recognizes this, and the fact that a long-term engagement is required to
comprehensively address all the factors that contribute to malnutrition. Nutrition has already been
included in the PRSP, and current AAA work within the Bank is exploring the possibility of including it




                                                     23

in the PRSC as well as in multi-sectoral lending. Successful strategies must be replicated and scaled up
over the long-term, as is being planned under HNPSP and the new PRSP. However, these must be
accompanied by building up of capacity and institutional support systems.

Invest in operations research and M&E and ensure that the results are appropriately utilized to
update project design and implementation. A systematic plan for OR needs to be put into place, taking
into account the research needs of various stakeholders and keeping in mind the constraints on the
demand side (availability of competent research organizations and M&E units) and the user side
(availability of trained program decision-makers). The plan should focus on (i ) studying differential
response of different sub-groups to a particular intervention, and statistical interactions between program
and other variables; (ii) program theory, and whether or not the inputs provided under the project are able
to produce the desired outputs and outcomes, and how they could be re-designed to be more effective; and
(iii) use of monitoring and evaluation findings to guide program and policy decision-making.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Borrowers ICR is attached in Annex 7. The borrowers and the Bank's perspectives are essentially
similar. The major differences stem from the fact that the Bank's ICR focuses on project outputs and
outcomes, while the borrowers report focuses much more on inputs that were provided through the
project. The lack of agreement between the Bank and the government at the start of the project seems to
have been the major bottleneck that affected project implementation, evaluation, and outcomes in the
longer term. The Bank agrees with the borrowers recommendations.

(b) Cofinanciers: The cofinanciers report from CIDA and the Government of the Netherlands is attached
in Annex 8. There is general agreement among the financiers on the key lessons and the outcomes of the
project and the ratings.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Inputs have been incorporated in to the main body of the report.




                                                   24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Components                                        Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                                  (USD M)              (USD M)                Appraisal
SERVICES COMPONENT                                78.81                72.70                  92%
PROJECT SUPPORT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                       39.01                15.03                  39%

Total Baseline Cost                               117.85               87.73                  74%
Physical Contingencies                            4.42                 1.63                   37%
Price Contingencies                               2.22                 0                      0%
Total Project Costs                               124.46               89.36                  72%


Total Financing Required                          124.46               89.36                  72%


(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal
Source of Funds                             Type of                           Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                            Cofinancing     Estimate (USD
                                                            M)                Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

  Borrower                                                  13.66              6.77             49.56%
  CANADA: Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA)                   Bilateral       6.30               2.92             46.35%

  NETHERLANDS, Govt. of THE
(Except for MOFA/Min of Dev. Coop           Bilateral       12.50             9.30              74.40%

  International Development Association
(IDA)                                                       72.73             70.32             96.69%


Note - SA for all categories is incorporated under the Physical Contingencies. The LOAG2 approved the last WA#
070 on March 12, 2007. When the NNP sends the final FMR this amount can be categorized.




                                                       25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Progress on implementation of project components is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. A large number
of pregnant and lactating women, adolescent girls and children <2 years were provided with nutrition
services and counseling under the project. However, implementation was inordinately delayed, as a result
of which project scope was reduced from the original 139 upazilas to 105 upazilas. While ABCN
activities did finally take off, there were issues with regard to the quality of the program due to poor
supervision and capacity building of field workers. The household food security component was poorly
targeted and managed; and eventually was dropped from the project due to poor impact. Overall
availability of technical support from the PMU level or from the NGOs was poor, particularly for the food
security component. Specific achievements of the project include: (Source: MPR).

(a) Services Component:

i. Area-Based Community Nutrition (ABCN) Services

Service Delivery: As of June 2006, supplementary food was provided to 56,498 women with a BMI <18.5
Kg/m2; 21,567 lactating women and 98,869 malnourished babies (7-24 months old). IFA tablets were
distributed to 232,868 pregnant women and VAC to 28,948 lactating mothers.

                                Indicator                                   Number
             Registered beneficiaries (as of June 2006)
             <2 yrs children                                                           1.18 million
             Pregnant women                                                            0.32 million
             Lactating mothers                                                         0.24 million
             Adolescent girls (13-19 years)                                             1.5 million
             Newly wed women                                                           0.17 million
             Low birth weight                                                                2,928
             ANC                                                                          2,56,285
             Supplementary food (as of June 2006)
             Pregnant women (<18.5 BMI)                                                     56,498
             Lactating mothers                                                              21,567
             Malnourished babies (7-24 months)                                              96,869

The BBS was contracted in April 2005 to assess both the quality of service statistics and of services. The
main findings of the IQUAS Report (2005) are: (i) weight of children <2 years was accurately recorded in
90% of cases, and supplementary feeding was appropriately and regularly provided 90% of the time; (ii)
accuracy of recording pregnancy order of women was accurate in 83.1% of the records, duration of
pregnancy in 77.3% and date of delivery in 91%. However, recording of weight of pregnant women
matched exactly in only 28.6% of the records, and 36.8% for lactating mothers. The difference in
recorded weight between the service statistics and IQUAS was often between 500gms and 1 kg. This has
important implications for eligibility for the food supplementation program; (iii) degree of match was
high on VAC and IFA supplementation (95.5% and 100% of the records respectively); feeding of
colostrum (97.7%), and exclusive breastfeeding (80%); and (iv) other service statistics also showed high
concurrence such as receipt of IFA by adolescent girls (96.1%), registration of newly married women in
CNC (100%) and receipt of IFA by newly married women (88.9%). The survey rated the quality of
services as high: (i) 80-85% of growth monitoring, food supplementation and referral support services for
children <2 years were of acceptable quality; (ii) 70-80% of targeting of food supplementation to
pregnant women was appropriate; (iii) 80-90% of them received adequate counseling, IFA
supplementation and ANC services; 70-80% of services for lactating women and 80% of services for
adolescent girls and newly married couples were judged to be of adequate quality.


                                                     26

    Nutrition garden and nurseries:

                                  Activities                          Achievement
                Establishment of nutrition garden                       2,69,240
                Establishment of village nurseries                        5,421

Household food security interventions: The program audit (Karim et al, 2006) revealed several
concerns regarding the food security components of the project. 36% of nutrition gardens and 44% of
homestead poultries were found to be mis-targeted to beneficiaries who owned more than the maximum
stipulated land. Consistent application of guidelines for the above activities, provision of adequate
training and follow-up supervision were all weak. Less than 38% of nutrition gardens were producing
fruits or vegetables; and 22% of the gardens did not exist. With regard to Poultry for Nutrition, (i) almost
100% of the selected beneficiaries were trained on poultry rearing and provided the required micro-credit
support; (ii) children in 99% of the beneficiary households were consuming two eggs per week; and (iii)
about 98% of the households were deriving some additional income from poultry rearing. Therefore,
most of the inputs seem to have been in-place; However, only 55% of rearing units were producing eggs;
and about half had no hybrid birds (a key element of the model). Inherent problems were not brought to
the attention of NNP by the NGOs: lack of specified amount of land available with beneficiaries to
operate a viable nutrition garden; or high mortality of hybrid birds that were not hardy enough to survive
local conditions.

ii. National Level Nutrition Services

Micro-nutrient supplementation: More than 73% of registered pregnant women received IFA as of June
2006. 100% of lactating mothers in project areas received IFA and VAC supplementation. Of salt
specimens tested in project areas, 86% were found to be iodized

    Number of people receiving IFA and VAC:

              Micro-nutrient supplementation
                                  Indicator                               Number
              Iron tablet (as of June 2006) for pregnant                                2,32,868
              women
              Vitamin A capsule for lactating mother                                      28,948

Breastfeeding activities: According to service statistics, more than 99.7% of live born babies received
colostrum at birth. 52.7% received exclusive breastfeeding up to 6 months of age; and more than 98% of
children completing 6 months received supplementary feeding.

                                  Activities                         Target (by June    Achievement (up
                                                                          2005)           to June 2005)
    1. Training/orientation                                            3,249 people        3,377 people
    2. Publication of research bulletin                                   3 issues            1 issue
    3. Publication of newsletter                                          4 issues            3 issues
    4. Bill-board installation                                               34                 139
    5. Workshops                                                       1 (national)        1 (national)
                                                                       1 (divisional)      1 (divisional)
                                                                       13 (upazilas)       14 (upazilas)
    6. Orientation of upazila managers and field supervisors              40+40               41+41
    7. Establishment of Lactation Management Center                          20                  20



                                                        27

Service statistics show that a total of 1,527,339 girls were enlisted in 85,098 Adolescent Girls Forums.
They were provided counseling on nutrition and reproductive health issues, provided with IFA and 6-
monthly de-worming with Albendazole. 170,406 newly wed couples were registered and 91% of them
received counseling on contraception and reproductive health.

(b) Project Support and Institutional Development Component:

i. Project Management and Development

The core activities of NNP were implemented by NGOs contracted by the PMU; in addition, the BCC
component was contracted out to UNICEF, the baseline survey to ICDDR, B and three agencies were
contracted to undertake training activities. A comprehensive review of the performance of NGOs
implementing the project was undertaken (Karim et al, 2006). The review found that (i) the NGOs
generally had the requisite staff, supplies and facilities; (ii) training provided to CNPs and women group
members was highly satisfactory: 98% of the 396 CNPs in the survey received basic or special training
and 93% of them attended the refresher training held in 96% of the CNCs. About 90% of women group
members also received refresher training; (iii) coverage of services was reasonably good. Almost all
CNCs were holding GMP sessions, and providing nutrition counseling through BCC.

Upazila managers and accountants were posted in all upazilas by all NGOs. The required number of core
program field supervisors was made available in all upazilas by nine NGOs and 98% of the upazilas by
the other NGO. The majority of registers were generally available at CNCs, with child and mother's
registers available in close to 100% of all CNCs. Availability of stock registers was only around 80% in
two NGOs. Updating of registers was somewhat lower, at just over 90%, except in the case of stock
registers which were updated in 83% of the CNCs. Maintaining staff motivation at a high level with
timely payment of honoraria is important. Although CNPs were supposed to receive their honoraria on a
monthly basis, overall less than 40% did. However, only 36% of recorded BMI checked randomly
proved to be correct. The program implications of incorrect recording of BMI are high; and this points to
a lack of attention to quality of training and supervision of CNPs. The supplementary feeding program
was also found to suffer from poor quality and targeting. On average, 76% of eligible pregnant women
and 71% of eligible lactating women received food supplements. Coverage of eligible children was
considerably lower overall, with only 34% of eligible children under 2 receiving supplements, compared
with only one-quarter of severely malnourished children. Overall, only 13% of the CNCs used the
required number of food packets. These issues could be due to the fact that the workload of the CNP was
found to be larger than the optimal 250 households in over 60% of cases.

ii. Monitoring and Evaluation: See details in Section 7.3.




                                                    28

iii. Training and Behavioral Change Communications

     Training and training monitoring conducted:

                            Category                         Target                Achievement
      1. Through IPHN
         Core Resource Team                                    75                        73
         Upazila Resource Team                                 904                      813
         District Nutrition Management                     34 batches               34 batches
         Committee Orientation
         Upazila Nutrition Management                      105 batches              105 batches
         Committee Orientation
      2. Through Implementing NGOs                           281,323                  275,593
      3. Through BRAC                                          590                      503
      4. Training monitoring by NIPORT                         93                        74
      5. Foreign training                                       -                 126 participants

Behavior Change Communication (BCC) activities: BCC was undertaken by UNICEF, and did not focus
specifically on community-based interventions. Since there is no endline survey, there is no evidence to
show that there was a change in knowledge, attitudes and practice over the project period. The Baseline
Survey (2004) indicates that about 40% of women in project areas were aware that eating more food
during pregnancy benefits both the mother and the child; about 46% rested more than before during
pregnancy; 68% used iodized salt; almost all were aware of the importance of early initiation of
breastfeeding and 90% of the importance of feeding of colostrum to the newborn infant; and general
awareness of the signs and symptoms of childhood illnesses was quite high. Specific activities were:




                                                29

                   Category                           Target                    Achievement
  1. Production and distribution of               All BINP BCC                20 different types
  BINP BCC materials                                materials
  2. Development of logo, slogan and jingle         1 of each                     1 of each
  for NNP
  3. Documentary on NNP                                  1                            1
  4. 68 (out of 107) Future Search            National level ­ 2; Sub-        National level ­ 2
  Conferences at the national and upazilas        national ­ 105
  levels
  5. Gender sensitization workshop            National level ­ 2, Sub-        Sub-national ­ 68
                                                  national ­ 105
  6. Training of trainers on inter-personal        TOT ­ 320                     TOT ­ 320
  communication of 320 people in 17               CNP ­ 23,000               CNP/CNO not done
  batches                                         CNO ­ 2,383
  7. Development and production of                As per demand             One15- minute, NNP
  advocacy materials                                                          Brochure ­ 11,000
  8. Production and distribution of               As per demand               Wall clock ­ 1,858
  promotional materials
  9. Development, approval and airing of
  audio-visual materials for the media:
  - Vitamin A on TV                                      6                            4
  - Vitamin A on Radio                                   6                            4
  10. Staging of street theatres at the            105 upazilas                  105 upazilas
  community level (3 per upazilas)
  11. Special BCC strategy for adolescent     4 unions of 2 upazilas        4 unions of 2 upazilas
  girls and boys and piloting in two upazilas
  12. Installation of bill-boards in 105 NNP            105                          105
  upazilas
  13. NNP website                                        -                        Launched
  14. 13 episode of TV and radio drama                TV ­ 1                      Not done
  serial                                            Radio ­ 1

BCC activities on breastfeeding:

                    Activities                                      Achievement
 1. Establishment of bill-board                 210 at upazilas level, 34 in NNP working district
                                                                   head quarters
 2. Mayer dudh bulletin                                               14 issues
 3. Posters                                                            10,000
 4. Seminars and workshop                                         2 (national level)
                                                                 31 (sub-national)
 5. TV                                                            1 jingle, 1 drama




                                             30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This annex is in two sections: Section I presents data on the Economic and Financial Analysis that was
undertaken as part of project preparation, as well as cost effectiveness analysis of project
interventions. Section II presents a summary of Pelletier et al: The Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition
Project - Effectiveness and Lessons; Bangladesh Development Series, South Asia Human Development
Unit (2006) which, albeit based on the predecessor BINP, is applicable to NNP and used NNP baseline
data for drawing some of the conclusions.

Section I: An Economic and Financial Analysis was undertaken as part of project preparation. The
main findings of the analysis were:

(i) Public investments in the core interventions proposed under the project, particularly in information
dissemination and community mobilization, were justified on the basis that they were public goods that
would otherwise not be provided by the market. While other interventions, such as micronutrient and
food supplementation, were primarily private goods, analysis showed that markets in Bangladesh had
failed to produce and consume optimal levels of these goods due to traditional dietary practices and
taboos, lack of information and low demand due to poverty.

(ii) The social and economic costs of malnutrition were estimated to be enormous (based on current
survey data on nutritional status and labor productivity measures). Assuming that NNP was not
implemented, and that there was no other investment that caused a change in nutrition status, the
following scenario was predicted.

                    Indicator                         2001-2012 estimate               2001-2030 estimate
Stillbirths caused by malnutrition             392,000                            1.07 million
Deaths in children 0-59 months                 3.15 million                       8.72 million
Diarrhea days 0-59 month olds                  748.1 million days                 1,504 million days
ARI days 0-11 month olds                       164.6 million days                 232.1 million days
Discounted lost potential productivity due to  US$3.3 billion                     US$9.5 billion
stunting
Discounted lost potential productivity due to  US$4.9 billion                     US$12.8 billion
iodine deficiency
Discounted lost potential productivity due to  US$1.1 billion                     US$3.1 billion
iron deficiency
Number of children repeating a grade 1 due to  319,400                            952,800
malnutrition
Cumulative IQ points lost in newborns          235 million                        624 million

Since project interventions were to be targeted at the most vulnerable, it was envisaged that the vicious
cycle of maternal anemia leading to underweight children would be broken. However, analysis of
government capacity indicated that purchasing of services from the private sector would be a more
sustainable mechanism than directly delivering through the public sector.

(iii) An economic evaluation was conducted to provide a basis for cost-minimization and national level
scale-up of the BINP model. The evaluation indicated that: (a) food supplementation costs accounted for
about 80% of program costs; (b) community contributions in kind could be valuated at about 8% of the
total program costs; (c) most expenditures on community-based services were procured locally; and (d)
there was limited willingness to pay for services, except in the case of growth faltering children.



                                                   31

(iv) Simulation models to understand the resource implications of scaling up the program nation-wide
indicated that (a) if the program was implemented with no exit strategy, over a 10 year period, it would
cost GOB US$766 million, 78% of which would be spent on food supplementation, 14% on program
costs and 8% would be community donated; (b) of the food supplementation, 12% would go towards
feeding children, and 44% each for pregnant and lactating mothers; (c) having some type of
graduation/exit strategy would be important for the long-term sustainability of the program, since
resources (both domestic and donor) were limited; and (d) the composition of food supplementation had
less impact on cost than the duration of supplementation.

(v) Mortality and malnutrition were significantly higher among the poorest quintile of the population: the
Demographic and Health Survey (1996/97) recorded the Infant Mortality Rate for the poorest quintile at
96.3 per 1,000 births, and 56.6 per 1,000 births or the richest quintile. About 50% of children in the
poorest quintile were stunted height for age, compared to about 23% in the richest quintile; and twice as
many mothers had low BMI in the poorest quintile (64.4% compared to 32.6%). Several socio-cultural
factors also contributed to malnutrition: taboos and traditional dietary practices often restricted nutritious
food to infants, adolescent girls and pregnant and lactating mothers. Finally, unequal distribution of food
and other resources (including care/attention) based on gender was widely observed. Gender bias also
resulted in the exclusive targeting of women for behavior change and health related messages, since
female health workers were wary of confronting male traditionalist groups, particularly in rural areas.

(vi) An analysis of sources and uses of funds (including donor funds) indicated that in 1997/98, total
expenditure on nutrition in Bangladesh amounted to BDT 670 million or the equivalent of 0.03% of GDP.
Absorptive capacity within both the government and NGO sectors was studied, and the conclusion was
that the expanded program would likely test both. Since almost the entire GOB budget for nutrition was
from the development budget, there was some concern expressed on budget cuts/diversion to other
programs, should the budget come under pressure.

Cost effectiveness analysis, to quantify the unit cost of achieving project outcomes, has been undertaken
more recently for the BINP (OED, 2005). However, the IEG data are not directly suitable for such a cost-
effectiveness analysis since: (i) firm estimates of key outcomes of the project were not available for the
analysis; (ii) some outcomes were left out (maternal weight gain and birth weight), while some were
included that were not part of the project objectives (child mortality); (iii) estimates of costs of various
components were based on erroneous assumptions; (iv) arbitrarily compared BINP costs to a hypothetical
rice rationing scheme; and (v) provided no guidance on strategies to make BINP more cost-effective
through selective redesigning. Sub-group analyses were also undertaken only for a limited set of
alternatives.

Section II: Executive Summary from Pelletier et al: The Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project -
Effectiveness and Lessons; Bangladesh Development Series, South Asia Human Development Unit
(2006).

Background and Purpose

The Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP) was implemented in response to the high rates of low
birth weight and malnutrition among children and women of childbearing age. The project's aim was to
reduce malnutrition in Bangladesh through three intermediate objectives: (1) improve the capacity of
national-level institutions in Bangladesh in the areas of advocacy ; analysis, policy advice, operations
research, and program support; (2) improve the capacity of communities, households, and individuals in
the project area to understand their nutritional problems and to take appropriate action; and (3) improve
the nutritional status of the population in the project area, with particular emphasis on children and
pregnant and lactating women.


                                                    32

The project had three primary components: (1) the national-level nutrition activities, (2) the multi sectoral
nutrition program (garden and poultry raising), and (3) the community-based nutrition component. The
allocated funding for each of these three components was $20.6M (32%), $7.6M (12%), and $39.1M
(56%), respectively. They were financed jointly by the government of Bangladesh (GOB) and a credit of
$59.8M from the International Development Association (IDA); of this, a total of $51.6M was disbursed.
BINP covered 59 of a total of 464 Thanas (administrative units) in Bangladesh. The approach is being
scaled up through the follow-on National Nutrition Program (NNP) to cover 105 of the country's 464
Thanas; further scaling-up of nutrition action is planned through the recently approved Health, Nutrition,
and Population Sector Program (HNPSP).

BINP has been the subject of several evaluations aimed at assessing its effectiveness. These evaluations
have differed in their design, analytical methods, rigor, findings, and conclusions. Thus, although some
reports have claimed success for the nutrition interventions, others have suggested there was little effect.
This lack of consensus has fueled considerable controversy and detracted from the important task of
building a nutrition vision and a platform for action in a country that has malnutrition rates that are among
the worlds highest.

The controversies surrounding BINP illustrate an inherent and common tension between the technical/
administrative dimension and the political dimension of large-scale programs: the technical/administrative
dimension should acknowledge the inherent complexity of large-scale programs, acknowledge that design
and implementation problems always exist and, therefore, employ effective mechanisms to identify
programmatic strengths and weaknesses so that improvements can be made over time. Typically, the time
required for the evolution of such complex realities extends well beyond the five-year intervals of most
development projects. In contrast, political support for improving national nutrition typically requires
consensus, positive results, and shorter time horizons and can easily become disrupted by technical
disagreements. The first step in managing these inherent tensions is to acknowledge their existence and
the distinctive requirements in the political and technical domain. The second step is to demonstrate a
commitment to not only initiate large-scale programs, but also to sustain the commitment over time and to
ensure that their design, implementation, and management can be improved in appropriate time scales.

Notwithstanding the controversies, BINP was implemented between May 1995 and December 2002 and
was followed by NNP, whose implementation was just begun in 2004. Since then, nutrition issues are
being incorporated into HNPSP, a sector-wide program; nutrition is also recognized as a key pillar of the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

These actions reveal a high degree of long-term commitment by the government of Bangladesh to the
cause of improving nutrition. The development partners likewise need to strike an appropriate balance
between the technical/administrative dimension and the political dimension of this cause by providing
consistent messages, constructive inputs, and a coordinated agenda that will improve nutrition and
nutrition programs in Bangladesh. To support that process, this study examines the totality of evidence
available on the effect of BINP (from existing reports), providing constructive suggestions on ways to
improve program effectiveness over time, and placing the importance of BINP in the larger context of
evolving commitment to nutrition in Bangladesh.

More specifically, the key objectives of this study are as follows:

    · Document the nutrition trends in Bangladesh during the past decade (from available data sources
         such as the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)
    · Summarize the evidence for the efficacy of key nutrition interventions from a few key
         publications


                                                    33

     · Review the evidence for the effect of Bank-supported nutrition interventions in Bangladesh and
         draw conclusions, to the extent possible, on their contributions toward nutrition outcomes in the
         country
     · Comment, to the extent feasible from available data/analyses, on the contributions of the many
         components of BINP nutrition intervention package with a view to incorporating lessons into
         HNPSP and the PRSP
     · Propose an indicative package of nutrition interventions for the GOB to consider as part of the
         essential services delivery package in Bangladesh (ESDP). This includes the implementation of
         targeting schemes/techniques as well as the role of communities, if any.

This study does not reanalyze any available data or collect any additional data, nor does it review all of
the literature in the public/private domain about nutrition in Bangladesh or globally.

It is hoped that this document will be useful for those who are involved in programming in health and
nutrition in Bangladesh and elsewhere in the developing world. Those interested in these programmatic
issues may wish to focus specifically on sections 1 and 3, whereas those interested in delving deeper into
the technical issues may wish to also examine section 2 and the detailed appendixes.

The Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project

As noted earlier BINP consists of three primary components; however, part of the first component, the
information, education, and communication (IEC) national activities, were never fully implemented
because the development of mass media activities and IEC materials was considerably delayed. As a
result many NGOs used their own IEC materials in their project areas. In addition, though several
national-level activities such as vitamin A supplementation and salt iodization were implemented under
this component, the capacity-building activities with national level institutions did not materialize to the
extent or in the manner originally envisaged. Similarly, the garden and poultry component was
implemented at a very minimal scale. Therefore, of the three components this study will focus mainly on
the community-based nutrition component (CBNC) with a much more limited review of experience with
the multi sectoral garden and poultry project. Some additional information on the role of this project on
nutrition policy development in Bangladesh is also included, as well as some information on a few
"unplanned" outputs from BINP.
The main activities in the CBNC include the following :

     · Monthly growth monitoring and promotion (GMP) for children under two years of age and
         pregnant and lactating women (PL W)
     · Supplementary feeding (SF) of malnourished PLW and malnourished and growth faltered
         children under 2 years of age
     · Nutrition education for pregnant women, mothers of children under two, and adolescent girls

The program strategy was designed to improve birth weight and maternal and child nutritional status and
to produce sustainable changes in feeding, eating, and health care-seeking behaviors of children and
pregnant and lactating women. In design, at least, the proposed approach appears to have been appropriate
to the problems and the context and consistent with global best-practice knowledge on intervention
strategies available at the time.

Sources and Methods

This study is based on a desk review of several earlier reports and analyses aimed at assessing the
implementation and effectiveness of BINP. These differ in the source of data, evaluation design,
analytical methods, and sponsoring organizations. The present review critically examined the methods


                                                   34

and results from each of these reports in an effort to draw conclusions based on the weight of the
accumulated evidence. The main reports and analyses considered here are as follows:
    · BINP Endline Evaluation, Final Report, September 2003 (Karim et al. 2003)
    · Thin on the Ground, 2003 (Save the Children Fund)
    · Baseline Survey of NNP: Initial Results, January 2005 (ICDDR,B)
    · Impact Evaluation of BINP, June 2004 (IMED, GOB)
    · Maintaining Momentum to 2015? February 2005 (OED, World Bank)
    · Reanalysis of data from the end line evaluation report
    · Reanalysis of SCF data
    · Analysis of 2000 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data
    · Process and Impact Study of BINP Garden and Poultry Activities (Karim et al. 2002)

For the main BINP evaluation design, as used in the endline report, there are four categories of
methodological concerns: (1) the criteria applied in selecting project and nonproject Thanas, (2)
noncomparability in some of the measurements across surveys, (3) use of only two Thanas and small
sample sizes for a control group, and (4) the likelihood that even the control group was exposed to health
and nutrition interventions as a result of spillover from BINP itself, separate initiatives, or both.

The accumulated evidence on BINP has three important features. First, all available studies have some
design weaknesses. Second, the nature of these weaknesses varies across the studies. Third, the
techniques available and applied to detect and/or to correct for potential biases vary across the studies.
The net effect of these features is that no one study can be considered unambiguously "more reliable"
than the others. Instead, the findings from each study must be interpreted in light of their particular
strengths and weaknesses and the process of drawing overall conclusions concerning the effect of BINP
ultimately depends more heavily on qualitative judgments about study designs than on probability values
from statistical tests.

Findings: The Community-Based Nutrition Component

Taken as a whole, the information reviewed here presents clear evidence for improvement in nutrition-
related knowledge and practices, maternal and child nutritional status, and birth weight in the project and
nonproject areas alike. The most consistent body of evidence concerning a positive effect of BINP,
beyond that seen in nonproject areas, relates to knowledge and practices during pregnancy and to the use
of available services such as vitamin A and iron supplementation. The evidence also suggests an added
effect of BINP on knowledge and practices concerning infant feeding. The evidence presents a mixed
picture concerning any additional effect of BINP on child nutritional status, weight gain during pregnancy,
or birth weight beyond those seen in the nonproject areas. Whether that is due to a true lack of impact on
outcomes per se or weaknesses in the evaluation designs and the data remains unclear. There is some
evidence that BINP may have improved birth weight among important subgroups, such as among women
who reported eating more during pregnancy (which was one of BINPs key messages) and, especially,
among destitute women (presumably with poorer nutritional status) who reported eating more during
pregnancy. These results are summarized below:

Young Children

Findings on the effects the community-based nutrition component had on young children are described
below.

Coverage and targeting of key child inputs: The evidence suggests a high level of participation in
growth-monitoring sessions (75% - 95%) and a moderate coverage of nutrition education sessions (66%).
The evidence on coverage and targeting of SF for children is limited to a prospective study in one Thana


                                                    35

(where only 21% of eligible children received SF) and the Save the Children Fund, U.K. (SCF) cross-
sectional survey in three Thanas (where 22% of severely malnourished children were receiving SF).
Although the limited geographic coverage of these findings does not provide a firm basis for drawing
conclusions about BINP as a whole, they do suggest that the strategies for increasing participation in
GMP and nutrition education worked fairly well (with room for further improvement), whereas the
coverage and targeting of SF may be problematic and deserving of more extensive examination.

Knowledge and practices concerning child feeding: The weight of the available evidence suggests that
BINP improved two key aspects of knowledge by about 10 to 20 percentage points beyond that seen in
nonproject areas: feeding of colostrum-the first milk that protects infants against infections-and the
benefits of exclusive breast-feeding. The evidence further suggests a large effect of the project on the
practice of initiating exclusive breast-feeding (30 percentage points higher in project areas) but a mixed
picture concerning the practice of initiating complementary feeding, in that there was no impact on the
prevalence of exclusive breast-feeding at five to six months of age. It appears from this that many more
mothers in project areas do initiate exclusive breast-feeding at birth, which will improve the health and
nutrition of their babies, but most do not continue the practice until the recommended six months of age.
Future program efforts may therefore need to focus on continuing exclusive breast-feeding until six
months of age and appropriate breast-feeding plus complementary feeding thereafter.

Child nutritional status: The available analyses provide inconsistent evidence for an effect of BINP on
child anthropometry. Some of the analyses with stronger designs suggest a modest effect, but even these
have design problems and differing results, which prevent firm conclusions. Specifically, on the basis of
the weakest of study designs for assessing project impact (endline cross-sectional surveys), three analyses
suggest a positive effect of BINP and five analyses suggest no effect beyond that seen in nonproject areas.
Two of these analyses employed somewhat- stronger designs by controlling for potential confounders
between project and nonproject areas: one suggests a positive effect of BINP and the other does not
(unless the analysis is restricted to those children who participate more regularly in growth-monitoring
sessions). The weight of the evidence on BINPs effect on child nutritional status can be read in either
direction (though there is some evidence that those children who participated more regularly in growth
monitoring did improve their nutritional status.) Whether that is due to a true lack of impact on outcomes
per se or to the weaknesses in the evaluation designs and the data remains unclear. The one clear message
from this is the need for designing and implementing stronger, technically sound evaluations right at the
start when programs are being developed.

Pregnant Women and Birth Weight
Findings on the effects the community-based nutrition component had on pregnant women and birth
weight are described below.

Supplementary feeding during pregnancy: Roughly 60 percent of malnourished women (with body
mass index [BMI] < 18.5) received supplementary feeding, with a clear pattern of higher coverage among
those most malnourished (with the lowest BMIs). About 40 percent of ineligible women (BMI > 18.5)
also received supplementary feeding. On the basis of available evidence, we conclude that receiving
supplementary feeding was not associated with improve4 birth weight in the project areas as a whole, and
it was not possible from the available studies to directly test whether supplementary feeding had an effect
on weight gain. That has implications for the design of the supplementary feeding component for
pregnant women in the future.

Knowledge and practices related to pregnancy: Available studies provide reasonably consistent
evidence that BINP improved selected knowledge and practices related to pregnancy by 20 to 40
percentage points beyond that seen in nonproject areas. There is some additional evidence from the study
with the strongest design that one of these practices (eating more during pregnancy) is associated with an


                                                     36

88 gram increment in birth weight. This suggests that BINP strategies for improving maternal knowledge
and practices related to pregnancy worked well.

Pregnancy weight gain and birth weight: The import of the evidence suggests little or no additional
effect of BINP on pregnancy weight gain or birth weight for the population as a whole, beyond that seen
in nonproject areas. However, it is noteworthy that subgroup analysis suggests sizable effects on birth
weight among those who eat more during pregnancy (+88 g) and destitute women (presumed to have
poorer nutritional status) who eat more during pregnancy (+270 g). Such large effects among the poorest
have not been demonstrated in any large-scale projects to date. The lower-than-expected effect of BINP
on maternal weight gain and birth weight of the population as a whole can be explained by an evolving
body of knowledge about the efficiency of various screening indicators (maternal BMI vs. weight) and the
differential partitioning of energy between the mother and the fetus among severely versus moderately
malnourished women. This evolving body of knowledge also suggests that the absolute weight of women
may be a better predictor than BMI of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), which is the major cause of
low birth weight in Bangladesh. However, the existing research is not adequate for revealing the best
predictor of which women may benefit from supplementary feeding. That is a priority for future research;
the MiniMat Study conducted by the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh
(ICDDR, B) should be capable of informing the choice of indicator and cutoff points as soon as the data
are analyzed and the report is written.

Micronutrients, Health Care, and Garden/Poultry Project

Findings on the effects the community-based nutrition component had on the use of health care and
micronutrients are described below.

Micronutrients and health care: Available information provides fairly convincing evidence that BINP
improved the delivery and use of micronutrients (iron/folate, vitamin A, and iodized salt) to a greater
extent than that seen in nonproject areas. Data from most studies showed a 10 to 30 percentage point
higher uptake of vitamin A capsules among children under 2 years old and mothers of young children and
a 10 to 30 percentage point higher uptake of iron/folate tablets among pregnant women in the project area.
Similarly, the integration of nutrition and health activities at the community level in BINP significantly
improved the delivery and use of key health services such as antenatal care and tetanus toxoid
vaccinations. The key lesson from this is that BINP was successful in encouraging use of some available
health services such as vitamin A supplementation, iron supplementation, and antenatal care. This has
implications for the need for continuing to strengthen the programmatic link between health service
delivery for basic health services and nutrition programming.

Garden and poultry project: Although well intended, the garden and poultry project experienced a
series of implementation problems and was therefore highly unlikely to have any systematic nutritional
effect. These problems included low coverage, poor targeting, high dropout rate, unmet demand for inputs,
inadequate services provided by field workers, and managerial arrangements that failed to generate
ownership and responsibility. Therefore, the evaluation of the effect of this component is not followed
through. The key lesson learned from these problems is the need for greater attention to implementation
issues and better mechanisms for quickly detecting and correcting implementation problems.

Overall Lessons and Implications

BINP is one of the largest multi-component nutrition programs ever implemented in a developing country,
and it took place in a country with one of the highest rates of poverty and maternal and child malnutrition.
In contrast to the World Bank's health, nutrition, and population (HNP) efforts in many other countries
and in recognition of the government's capacity limitations and role for community-level service delivery,


                                                   37

it was implemented largely through nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), augmented as appropriate
through the addition of essential cadres of workers and volunteers at the community level. In the process,
it has demonstrated the feasibility of establishing or adapting large-scale structures to support community-
based HNP programs in developing countries in which public sector capacities may be limited and
innovative solutions are being sought. This experience is already being taken to scale through NNP, with
further mainstreaming of alternative health-service delivery mechanisms envisioned in forthcoming HNP
sector wide approach (SWAP) and PRSP efforts (see box 1 page 14). These are major accomplishments
that deserve full recognition.

Experience from BINP provides several important lessons for future nutrition programs in Bangladesh
and elsewhere:

    · One of the key lessons learned from BINP is that people can set themselves up for failure if they
        are overambitious in their objectives. The project aimed to reduce underweight and stunting rates
        by 50 percent over a course of 5 years (1995-2000). By comparison, the first Millennium
        Development Goal (MDG) aims to cut underweight rates (non-income poverty) in half between
        1990 and 2015-a period of 25 years; yet there is continued debate about whether the MDGs are
        achievable. Viewed in that light, BINP targets were very ambitious they aimed to achieve in 5
        years what the MDGs are aiming for during a          25-year period. In addition, the objective for
        low birth weight reduction aimed to "reduce the incidence of low birth weights by 50 percent"
        across all groups of pregnant women.
    · In addition to setting an ambitious target, the less-than-expected impact of BINP in increasing
        birth weight may be explained by the evolving understanding that (1) BMI may not be a
        particularly useful screening indicator for' intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and (2) food-
        related interventions may not affect birth weight through a straightforward input-output response
        as assumed in the past. Instead, for the most severely malnourished women, energy appears to be
        preferentially partitioned to the mother's own body stores, whereas for moderately malnourished
        women energy is partitioned to both her stores and the fetus. Although the cutoff points for
        defining these different partitioning categories are not yet known with precision, it is likely that a
        significant proportion of women eligible for supplementary feeding in BINP were not biologically
        capable of responding with higher birth weights, though they could still benefit in other ways.
        That probability suggests a possible need to change the screening indicator, the expectations
        about the way different women may respond to interventions, and the indicators used to evaluate
        programs in the future.
    · There is scope for improving the design and effectiveness of each major component of BINP. Ten
        redesign suggestions are offered for supplementary feeding related to the nature, size, targeting,
        delivery, and monitoring of the food supplements and associated incentives; seven suggestions
        are offered for the behavior change interventions related to the content of nutrition education
        sessions, expanded target audiences, local monitoring, problem solving, and incentives.
    · Experience with the two main interventions in BINP, supplementary feeding and nutrition
        education, underscores that effectiveness (and efficacy) is not simply an intrinsic characteristic of
        interventions. Instead, the effectiveness of an intervention also depends vitally on context and
        implementation. Because the context and the implementation process both are multilevel,
        complex, and dynamic, it is highly unlikely that the initial design of a program will "get it right"
        on all the important parameters. Therefore, future programs must be designed with a strong
        capacity to make adjustments during implementation, including decentralized capacity. Although
        this did happen to some extent in the transition from BINP to NNP and is currently taking place
        in the move toward the sector-wide approach (HNP SWAP), the scope for adaptation and
        refinement of program design must be further enhanced. The challenge is to make feasible such a
        flexible program approach in the complex programming environment and limited managerial
        capacities for nutrition in developing countries such as Bangladesh, even while those capacities


                                                    38

    are being strengthened in this area. Recent experiences in other Bank operations have
    demonstrated the potential to build program-relevant capacity simultaneously with program
    implementation, and may be a promising approach as BINP approach expands (Matta et al. 2000).
· The foregoing may appear to be stating the obvious. But the experience with BINP and well
    beyond reveals that it may not be common practice to follow these principles, especially when
    dealing with state bureaucracies and procedures. The reality is that large-scale programs often
    lack the capacity to detect and correct problems with design and implementation in a timely
    manner, such that most lesson-drawing and program adjustments tend to happen on a 5 - to 10 -
    year time scale in response to "endline" evaluations." Typically, the findings of summary
    evaluations lack the fine-grained detail required for making program adjustments, are not timely,
    and are resisted by most stakeholders; much greater emphasis should therefore be placed on
    building the capacity and the incentives for making timely and appropriate adjustments during
    implementation, based on operations research: This implies much greater emphasis on timely
    process monitoring and on mechanisms to ensure that information is fed into programmatic
    changes in a timely manner.
· BINP offers many lessons on the way evaluations can/should be done. Most notable is the need to
    design and analyze evaluation data with "Differential responsiveness" in mind, to adopt more
    explicit and sophisticated program theories to guide analysis and to address the common
    problems in translating evaluation findings into program and policy decisions.

Now that BINP infrastructure has been established, especially at the community level, and NNP is
being expanded, Bangladesh offers an excellent opportunity to address many of the issues outlined
above. Doing so will require many changes, including a broad understanding that a "culture of
inquiry" is fundamental to program success, clear delineation of the scope for discretionary decisions
at each administrative level, significant strengthening of management and inquiry capacity at all
administrative levels especially as the institutional arrangements for implementing nutrition programs
are being defined in the coming year, and realignment of incentive systems to support a performance-
based approach to development as is being done for the HNP sector program as a whole.




                                                39

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                      Title                Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Iqbal A.F.M. Kabir       Sr. Nutrition Specialist  SASHD          Task Leader
Richard Lee Skolnik      Sector Director           SASHP          Sector Manager

Sadia A Chowdhury        Sr. Health Specialist     SASHD          Health, Nutrition &
                                                                  Population
Md. Aminul Haque         Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS         Procurement
Shirin Jahangeer         Consultant                SASHD          Logistical Support
William Bradford Herbert Consultant                SASHD          Nutrition

Abdo S. Yazbeck          Lead Economist, Health    SASHD          Health, Nutrition &
                                                                  Population
Zafrul Islman            Sr. Procurement Specialist SARPS         Procurement

Suraiya Zannath          Sr Financial Management
                         Specialist                SARFM          Financial Management

Mohammad Sayeed          Disbursement Officer      LOAG2          Disbursement
Supervision/ICR

Burhanuddin Ahmed        Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                SARFM          Financial Management

Md. Mahtab Alam          Program Assistant         SACBD          Team Assistant

Jayshree Balachander     Sr. Human Resources
                         Specialist                EASHD          Task Team Leader

Anisuzzaman Chowdhury    Consultant                SASHD          Procurement
Farzana Ishrat           Nutrition Specialist      SASHD          Nutrition
Shirin Jahangeer         Consultant                SASHD          Logistical Support
Iqbal A.F.M. Kabir       Sr. Nutrition Specialist  SASHD          Task Team Leader
Pradeep Kakkar           Consultant                SASHD          IEC

Cornelis P. Kostermans   Lead Public Health                       Health, Nutrition &
                         Specialist                SASHD          Population

Sandra Rosenhouse        Sr. Population & Health
                         Specialist                SASHD          Task Team Leader

E. V. Shantha            Consultant                AFTH3          Training
Meera Shekar             Sr. Nutrition Specialist  HDNHE          ICR/Nutrition/M&E
Harvinder Singh Suri     Consultant                SARPS          Procurement
Bina Valaydon            Health Specialist         AFTH1          Health

Suraiya Zannath          Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                SARFM          Financial Management

Michele Gragnolati       Senior Economist          SASHD          Task Team Leader
Sundararajan Srinivasa
Gopalan                  Sr. Health Specialist     SASHD          Co-Task Team Leader

Alejandro Welch          Information Assistant     SASHD          IA/Team Assistant




                                                  40

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.Date ISR Archived              DO                          IP            Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   11/14/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                      4.00
2   06/10/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                      4.06
3   12/12/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                      4.12
4   06/12/2002          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                                     4.23
5   11/08/2002          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                                     4.29
6   03/20/2003          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                                     6.81
7   06/15/2003          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                                     9.48
8   12/18/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                     14.01
9   06/28/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                     27.29
10 12/28/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                     40.41
11 03/18/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                     47.46
12 09/19/2005           Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                          63.65
13 03/20/2006           Moderately Unsatisfactory  Moderately Unsatisfactory                        73.26
14 10/26/2006           Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory                        79.46

(c) Staff Time and Cost



                                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

               Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                                          No. of staff weeks       travel and consultant
                                                                                           costs)
Lending
                       FY98                                                                         15.32
                       FY99                                                                        271.40
                       FY00                                                 118                    272.41
                       FY01                                                                          -3.62
                                                Total:                      118                    555.51
Supervision/ICR
                       FY98                                                                          0.00
                       FY99                                                                          0.38
                       FY00                                                                          -0.04
                       FY01                                                 75                      92.57
                       FY02                                                 49                     131.06
                       FY03                                                 34                     104.45
                       FY04                                                 51                     114.90
                       FY05                                                 46                      73.78
                       FY06                                                 34                      92.49
                       FY07                                                 21                      72.75
                                                Total:                      310                    682.34




                                                 41

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Findings of the World Bank ­ DMA NGO Report (Program Audit Report)

A study of NGO performance under NNP was undertaken jointly by Data Management Aid, Bangladesh
National Nutrition Project, the World Bank and NNP partner NGOs. Ten NGOs were contracted by NNP
to provide area-based community nutrition services and household food security services that included
home gardening and homestead poultry in 23,245 CNCs in 105 upazilas in the country. A statistically
selected representative sample of 396 CNCs in 32 upazilas was studied to observe the NGO operations in
the project. The major findings and recommendations are summarized below.

Manpower and Record Keeping
Adequate availability of trained staff is a key input for program success. Overall, upazilas were
adequately staffed.


                                                             Percent of                   Household
                              Upazilas                     required Field  Household        profile
                              Manager        Accountant     Supervisors   profile survey  information
                                posted         posted          (core       conducted      updated in
                                                             program)      during NNP    last 6 months
           NGOs and             (% of           (% of        posted per
          comparisons         upazilas)       upazilas)       upazilas    (% of CNCs)    (% of CNCs)

      All NGOs                  100.0           100.0           99.8           96.2           65.2

      New NNP upazilas          100.0           100.0           99.6           99.1           59.3

      Old BINP upazilas         100.0           100.0          100.0          100.0           78.3


Upazila managers and accountants were posted in all upazilas by all NGOs. The required number
of core program field supervisors was made available in all upazilas by nine NGOs and 98% of the
upazilas by the other NGO.

An initial activity to be undertaken in each CNC, in order to identify target populations and provide
regular outreach, was a household profile surveys in the catchment area of each NGO. With the
exception of one NGO, where household profile survey was only carried out in two-thirds of CNCs,
household profile surveys were carried out in the majority of CNCs. Surveys were conducted in 100% of
CNCs in seven NGOs and in 94 and 97% of the CNCs of two other NGOs. However, household profile
information was not updated regularly in CNCs of half of the NGOs; this was particularly the case in new
NNP upazilas. A failure to update surveys would likely reduce the timeliness of services to newly
pregnant women and to children that have recently become undernourished.

Maintaining updated registers of beneficiaries and program inputs and outputs are necessary to carry out
adequate beneficiary follow-up, monitor program activities and maintain inventory.




                                                   42

                                                                    Pregnant                   Monthly
                                                                       and                   honoraria to
                              Pregnant and                          lactating              CNPs were paid
                                lactating     Stock                  mothers     Stock      regularly (% of
                Under 2         mothers      register   Under 2      register   register        CNPs)
                children         register   available   children     updated    updated
                register        available                register                            GOB     NGO
 NGOs and     available (%                    (% of   updated (%      (% of      (% of       run      run
comparisons    of CNCs)       (% of CNCs)    CNCs)      of CNCs)     CNCs)       CNCs)     upazilas upazilas

All NGOs         100.0            99.7        93.4         91.4        92.9       82.8       17.7     56.1

New NNP
upazilas         100.0            99.5        93.1         89.8        89.4       81.9       35.6     66.7

Old BINP
upazilas         100.0            100.0       95.0         90.0       100.0       88.3        0.0      8.3


The majority of registers were generally available at CNCs, with child and mother's registers available in
close to 100% of all CNCs. Availability of stock registers was only around 80% in two NGOs. Updating
of registers was somewhat lower, at just over 90%, except in the case of stock registers which were
updated in 83% of the CNCs. Here again, new NNP upazilas did not do as well as the old BINP upazilas.

Maintaining staff motivation at a high level with timely payment of honoraria is important. Although
CNPs were supposed to receive their honoraria on a monthly basis, overall less than 40% did. Timely
payment was considerably lower in GOB-run Upazilas (at 18%) than NGO-run Upazilas (at 56%). There
was considerable variation, however, within NGO-run Upazilas, with 4 NGOs providing timely payment
to 100% of CNPs, and another as high as 94%. However, the other 5 NGOs reported timely payments
only to between 0 and 25% of CNPs. Delays in the disbursement of funds from NNP were cited as the
major reason for this irregular payment

Training
Training of CNPs is a key determinant of the quality and effectiveness of services at the CNC level. CNPs
were to receive a basic training for 24 days in new NNP upazilas, while CNPs in old BINP upazilas were
to receive a special training for one week after appointment in NNP. All CNPs were to receive refresher
training for one day every month. There was no provision for basic training for women group members
but they were supposed to receive refresher training for one day every month. It was the responsibility of
the NGOs to conduct the training.


                  Basic or                          CNPs
                  special        Refreshers    participated in Refreshers training
                  training      training held     refreshers      held for women    BBF newsletter
                received by      for CNPs in      training in    group members in    Mayer Dudh
                   CNPs        September 2005 September 2005     September 2005         received
  NGOs and
 comparisons (% of CNPs)        (% of CNCs)      (% of CNPs)       (% of CNCs)      (% of upazilas)

All NGOs            97.7             96.0            93.4               88.9              31.3

New NNP
upazilas            99.1             94.0            91.2               88.4              17.6

Old BINP
upazilas            98.3             98.3            98.3               98.3              60.0




                                                      43

    Overall, the coverage of training of CNPs, both in terms of basic or special training, and refresher
    training, was satisfactory. Average coverage was above 96% with the exception of refresher training for
    women group members where it declines slightly to 89%. However, the good showing of 9 NGOs is
    dampened by a considerably lower coverage by one NGO which held refresher training in 50-60% of
    CNCs. Although the quality of training was not assessed, data on nutrition knowledge and practices of
    beneficiaries, and on the competence of CNPs suggests the quality of training could be improved and
    reinforced through strengthened supervision.

    The performance audit also inquired whether upazilas had been receiving the monthly BBF newsletter
    Mayer Dudh which was to be used in the refresher training of CNPs. Less than a third of NGOs had
    received it.

    GMP Sessions and Nutrition Counseling
    GMP sessions were to be held in each CNC once per month where CNPs were to take anthropometric
    measurements of pregnant women and children and provide them with nutrition counseling. Each CNC
    was supposed to have three types of BCC materials, namely, posters, flash cards and flip charts to support
    nutrition counseling.

                                              All 3 types
                                               of BCC
                                              materials
                                              (posters,
              GMP                               flash
             sessions                         cards, flip                                               Percent of 3
            were held  Percent of Percent of   charts)                                        Height    randomly
              in the    pregnant    under 2     were                 Uniscales     Height      scales    collected
            CNCs in      women      children  available   Uniscales   were in      scales     were in      BMI
           September    attended   attended     in the      were     working        were     working    calculations
              2005       GMP         GMP        CNCs      available condition available condition       were correct
NGOs and               sessions in sessions in                                                           up to 0.1
compariso     (% of    September September      (% of      (% of       (% of       (% of       (% of    decimal per
    ns       CNCs)        2005       2005      CNCs)       CNCs)      CNCs)        CNCs)      CNCs)        CNC

All NGOs       99.2       85.4        85.5       93.7       93.9        85.9        97.7        75.8       35.5

New NNP
upazilas      100.0       81.9        83.0       91.2       94.0        88.4        98.6        75.0       31.2

Old BINP
upazilas       98.3       88.2        89.9      100.0       93.3        91.7        95.0        85.0       48.3


    Overall, the provision of GMP sessions and nutritional counseling were satisfactory with respect to
    coverage and the availability of the necessary inputs. The sessions were held regularly in all CNCs, and
    attendance was generally high, at 85%. All three types of BCC materials were also available in the
    majority of CNCs. Weight scales were available in 94% of the CNCs and 85% were in working order.
    Height scales were available in 98% of all CNCs although only 76% were functional. Only half of the
    height scales worked in CNCs of one NGO, and only two-thirds in two other NGOs.

    Overall, 85% of eligible children attended GMP sessions, with some variation between NNP and old
    BINP upazilas. However, only 36% of Body-Mass Index (BMI) calculations by CNPs that were
    randomly collected from existing records were correct up to one decimal point across the NGOs. The
    range across NGOs was not large, lying between 22 and 48%. BMI is the indicator used to identify target




                                                         44

beneficiaries of food supplements among pregnant women. A failure to accurately measure this index
will lead to mis-targeting of food supplements.

Four of the 396 sampled CNCs were found closed and inoperative and 14 non-sample CNCs were
reported closed and inoperative during the field survey.

Supplementary Feeding
Supplementary feeding was to be provided to the target beneficiaries six days a week except Fridays as
follows: four packets of supplementary foods to each low BMI pregnant and lactating woman from the
identification of low BMI to two months into the lactation, two packets of supplementary foods to each
severely malnourished child for three months, extendable for one month if the nutritional status did not
improve, one packet of supplementary food to each growth-faltered child for three months, extendable for
one month if the nutritional status did not improve, and one packet of supplementary food to each
relapsed child for three months, extendable for one month if the nutritional status did not improve.


                                                                         Mean                    Used
                Percent of   Percent of   Percent of                  number of       Mean     required
                  eligible     eligible   all eligible  Percent of   food packets number of     or more
                 pregnant     lactating     under 2      severely      required        food   number of
                  women        women        children   malnourished per CNC on       packets     food
                  received     received     received     children      the day of   used per    packets
   NGOs and food on the food on the food on the received food         survey for     CNC on
   compariso       day of       day of       day of    on the day of  all eligible  the day of   (% of
        ns         survey      survey        survey       survey     beneficiaries    survey    CNCs)

   All NGOs         76.3         71.2         34.5         24.2          30.2          14.8      12.9

   New NNP
   upazilas         72.8         67.1         35.8         29.2          29.3          14.1      14.4

   Old BINP
   upazilas         80.4         74.2         30.0         19.0          34.8          15.9       6.7


Results show that, on average, 76% of eligible pregnant women and 71% of eligible lactating women
received food supplements. These averages mask some important variations, as in one NGO only 38% of
eligible pregnant women received supplements, while the highest coverage was 95% in another NGO. In
the case of lactating women, the lowest coverage was 32 % compared with a high of 87% in another NGO.
Coverage of eligible children was considerably lower overall, with only 34% of eligible children under 2
receiving supplements, compared with only one-quarter of severely malnourished children. There was
wide variation across NGOs, with most reaching between 30 and 50 % of eligible children. One NGO
had a particularly poor performance, reaching less than 10 % of the eligible children and only one-third of
the eligible mothers. Overall, only 13% of the CNCs used the required number of food packets.

Supervision of ABCN Activities
Supervision ensures program inputs are in place and that outputs are delivered with quality and
effectively. Overall, the supervision of ABCN activities showed mixed results




                                                      45

                                   Field Supervisors (core CNPs performed     CNPs supervised the         CNCs
              CNC Management          program) visited      home visit on the last food preparation covering over
             Committees meetings    CNCs in September        day before the     by women group             250
             held in October 2005          2005                 survey              members             households
NGOs and
comparisons      (% of CNCs)            (% of CNCs)           (% of CNCs)         (% of CNCs)          (% of CNCs)

All NGOs             88.4                   75.0                  74.2                 93.4                36.9

New NNP
upazilas             85.2                   77.3                  72.7                 90.7                36.1

Old BINP
upazilas             96.7                   73.3                  70.0                 98.3                26.7


    CNC Management Committee meetings were held on the month of the survey in 88% of all CNCs, on
    average. CNCs at most NGOs scored over 90%. However in one NGO, less than half of CNCs held a
    meeting that month. CNPs supervised the supplementary food preparation by women group members on
    a regular basis in about 90% of all CNCs, and although not required, home visits to malnourished children
    took place in 74% of CNCs. Part of the reason for the lower than expected outreach visits may be that
    37% of CNCs were too large, covering more than 250 households which was considered as the optimal
    size of a CNC. However, although the upazilas core program field supervisors were supposed to visit
    every CNC monthly, on average, only 75% were visited the month of the survey, and only about half of
    CNCs were visited in three NGOs.

    Hygiene and Sanitation
    Maintaining appropriate hygiene and sanitation in CNCs and in food preparation and feeding ensures
    better health. Considering the importance of sanitation in maintaining good nutritional status, the
    performance in hygiene and sanitation was not satisfactory.

                                                      All cooking,
                                                       measuring                   Soap powder        Soap
                                                      and serving                  available for available for
                       Latrines were                 utensils were   Tube wells      cleaning        washing
                         in working  Latrines were       clean       were clean      utensils         hands
        NGOs and        condition (%   clean (% of
       comparisons        of CNCs)       CNCs)       (% of CNCs) (% of CNCs) (% of CNCs) (% of CNCs)

    All NGOs                 59.9         47.5            77.9           86.1          71.7            77.8

    New NNP
    upazilas                 56.7         43.3            72.7           85.0          67.1            69.4

    Old BINP upazilas        47.4         40.4            84.7           80.7          81.7            96.7


    Only 60 % of latrines were in working order, and only 47% were considered to be clean. The same two
    NGOs with the fewest functioning latrines, had the lowest scores in cleanliness. On average, 78% of
    CNCs had clean cooking utensils and pots, and 72% had soap to wash them. And 78% of CNCs had soap
    available for washing hands. The same NGO scored consistently lower than other NGOs on all tabled
    indicators.




                                                         46

Nutritional Performance: Knowledge and Practice
Nutritional performance in terms of knowledge and practice was mixed. Weight data on newborns was
collected within 48 hours as recommended by NNP in 78% of CNCs on average, with the average being
brought down by poor compliance by one NGO (48%).

                                                                                                           Percent
                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                           mothers
                                                                                                            knew
                                                                                                            that
               Percent of     ANC                                                                          washing
                  birth      sessions                                               Percent of             hands
                weights    held in the Percent of            Percent of              mothers    Percent of  with
                collected    satellite pregnant               mothers   Percent of knew that     mothers   soap or
                within 48   clinics in   women    Percent of knew that   mothers     exclusive   washed    ash and
                 hours     September    attended   mothers    3 or more exclusively breastfeedi hands with water
                 during       2005        ANC     practiced 3   ANC      breastfed   ng were     soap or    after
                  July-                sessions in or more    checkups   the last   necessary    ash and   defecati
NGOs and       September      (% of    September     ANC        were    child for 6    for 6   water after  on is
comparisons       2005       CNCs)        2005     checkups    needed    months      months     defecation hygienic

All NGOs          77.7        83.8        58.7        42.5      58.6       36.1        71.7        80.8     97.1

New NNP
upazilas          71.2        85.6        60.0        36.4      54.2       27.7        70.9        81.8     97.6

Old BINP
upazilas          88.8        86.7        56.2        43.3      56.0       37.2        72.3        86.9     98.6


With respect to ante-natal care (ANC), provision of ANC sessions was generally good, with 84 % of
CNCs having had access the month of the survey. The poor showing by one NGO (at 56%) is offset by
very good performance by 3 NGOs who provided ANC in more than 92% of CNCs. Attendance,
however, was poor overall with an average of 59% of interviewed women having attended. Only one
NGO had good performance (at 83%). Lack of attendance is reflected in low knowledge about ANC care
and even lower practices. Only 59% of women knew that 3 or more ANC check-ups were required and
only 42% had received at least 3 check-ups. With respect to knowledge and practices regarding exclusive
breastfeeding in the first 6 months of life, knowledge was higher at 71% but practices were very low at
36%. Mothers with better knowledge had better practices overall, although knowledge and practices were
less linked in the case of breastfeeding. Differences between knowledge and breastfeeding practices were
sometimes as high as 60%, suggesting little if any relationship between knowledge and practices. The
NGOs with lower performance tended to be the same ones across indicators. It is clear that knowledge
and practices need to be considerably strengthened.

In some CNCs ANC sessions, which were conducted by the GOB officials, and GMP sessions, which
were conducted by the NGO officials, were offered simultaneously to provide both services at one stop,
which was a significant improvement in NGO management

Home Gardening
A CNC was supposed to have 12 home gardens. The study planned to visit 5 home gardens in each
selected CNC chosen randomly from the list of gardens supplied by the CNPs to collect information on
home gardening. In practice, five home gardens were not available in some CNCs in which case all the
gardens available in the CNCs were visited. In all, 1865 home gardens were visited.




                                                     47

                      Percent
                          of                                                            Agricultura   Percent
                      required                               Home    Home     Percent of   l Field     of 12
           Agricultu Agricultu     Home      Foundation    gardens gardens    available  Supervisor  required
                ral   ral Field    garden      training    received received    home     visited the   home
            Extensio Supervis   beneficiarie received by     seeds  fertilizer gardens      home      gardens
            n Officer    ors      s owned       home         from     from      active   gardens in    active
  NGOs       posted    posted       <=80        garden      project  project  (producin  September   (produci
   and                            decimals beneficiarie                           g         2005        ng
comparis      (% of      per     land (% of    s (% of       (% of   (% of    vegetables             vegetable
   ons      upazilas) upazilas      HGs)        HGs)         HG)      HG)         )     (% of HGs)      s)

All NGOs      100.0     100.0        64.2        81.6        95.3      88.0     43.8        36.9       38.4

New NNP
upazilas      100.0     100.0        62.1        79.0        95.9      92.2     46.9        39.3       40.4

Old BINP
upazilas      100.0     100.0        66.0        87.0        93.7      89.0     40.7        18.0       37.5


Overall, home gardening activities had mixed results, although consistently better than Homestead
Poultry activities. Agricultural extension officer and required number of agricultural field supervisors
were posted in all upazilas. According to NNP design, beneficiaries were supposed to own a maximum of
80 decimals of cropland. However, on average, only 64% of beneficiaries did, and thus benefits did not
reach some of the poorest families. The provision of basic training for home garden beneficiaries was
generally good, with an average of 82% receiving training. Only one NGO performed poorly in this
respect, with coverage of only 53%. Two additional inputs, seeds and fertilizer, were also widely
provided (95%, and 88%, respectively).

Despite the relatively good availability of inputs, results, as measured by the percentage of required home
gardens active (each CNC was to have 12 home gardens) were poor as only 38% of the required home
gardens were found to be active. One NGO was found to have only 6% of required gardens. The highest
performance was 65%, suggesting there are important problems that need to be addressed. Although field
supervisors did not have fixed targets of number of home gardens to visit, the fact that only 37% of
beneficiaries were visited suggests this is one factor contributing to poor performance. Discussions with
NGO managers indicated that there were other factors affecting performance, including the inflexibility of
the model. In fact, during the survey, it was reported that the Kalikapur model that NNP promoted for
home gardening was unsuitable for year round vegetable production especially in low lying and char
areas which was subject to inundation by monsoon rain and flood waters.

Homestead Poultry
Poultry activities of NNP were organized in two models (improved scavenging model and commercial
model) in a ten-cadre poultry system (poultry health supervisor, feed seller, chick rearer, key rearer,
model rearer, egg seller and mini hatchery for improved scavenging model, and chick rearer, growing
stock rearer and laying hen rearer for commercial model) taking the upazilas as the unit of operation. Of
those cadres, poultry key rearers were the homestead poultry growers. There was no fixed target of the
number of poultry key rearers per CNC. The target was set for the upazilas as a whole. Key rearers
received Taka 1500 credit on a revolving basis.

The study planned to visit 5 poultry key rearers in each selected CNC chosen randomly from the list of
key rearers supplied by the CNPs to collect information on homestead poultry. In practice, five key
rearers were not available in some CNCs in which case all the key rearers available in the CNCs were
visited. In all 1624 poultry rearers were visited.



                                                      48

                                                                                                  Poultry
                                                                                                Technician
                                                                                                   cum
                        Percent of                                        Poultry     Poultry Supervisor    Percent of
            Upazila      required    Poultry                  Refresher      key        key      s visited   available
           Poultry In-   Poultry        key                   training    rearers     rearers     poultry    poultry
            Charge      Technician   rearers    Foundation    received    received   received       key        key
              cum          cum     owned <50      training    by poultry   credit     chicks     rearers in  rearers
            Training    Supervisor decimals     received by      key        from       from     September     active
            Officer      s posted      land     poultry key    rearers    project     project      2005      (having
NGOs and posted (%                                 rearers                                                    some
compariso       of         per        (% of                     (% of       (% of      (% of      (% of       hybrid
    ns      upazilas)    upazilas      KRs)     (% of KRs)      KRs)        KRs)       KRs)        KRs)       birds)

All NGOs      100.0        97.4        55.7         77.2         74.4        30.8       76.4        36.9       48.2

New NNP
upazilas      100.0        95.1        51.6         75.8         74.6        30.6       81.8        39.3       56.1

Old BINP
upazilas      100.0       100.0        59.5         80.2         84.8        52.9       77.4        19.5       38.7


    The performance of homestead poultry was mixed. Although Upazila poultry in-charge cum training
    officer was posted in all upazilas in all NGOs, the required numbers of poultry technician cum
    supervisors were insufficient in two NGOs, where 83% and 94% of the upazilas had the required
    supervisors. Targeting was poorer than in home gardening, with only 56% of key rearers having the
    required amount of land. Coverage of foundation training was a bit lower than in home gardening, at
    77%, although in one NGO only 50% received training. Refresher training was also received by 74% of
    poultry key rearers. A similar percentage of poultry key rearers received chicks (76%) but only 30%
    received credit. As in the case of home gardening, although to a lower extent, inputs were generally
    available, results were not good. Only 48% of poultry key rearers were found to be active (had some
    hybrid birds), with one NGO having only 18% of rearers active. Visits by supervisors were also
    infrequent, with only 37% of key rearers having received a visit. In the case of 2 NGOs, less than 10%
    had received visits. During the field survey it was reported that hybrid birds, sonali and fawmi, which
    NNP promoted for key rearing, did not survive the summer heat especially in high and hilly lands and
    were not suitable for those areas. As in the case of home gardening, the implementation of this component
    needs to be assessed in order to address inflexibilities in the model and its operational complexity.

    Recommendations
            · Except for home gardens and homestead poultry, the weaknesses in NGO performance were
                 more managerial than technical in nature, which could be improved by better monitoring and
                 supervision. The existing indicators and approach to monitoring and supervision by NNP
                 should be revisited and strengthened at all levels. Results also suggest the effectiveness of
                 training needs to be assessed.
            · Household food insecurity is an immediate cause of malnutrition and should be treated
                 carefully. Efforts to improve household food security through home gardening and homestead
                 poultry alone, as in the case of NNP, appear narrow. Further, the projects were not suitable
                 for application in all locations. Different, more appropriate projects to meet the livelihood
                 conditions in different locations, should be identified and implemented.
            · The existing household food security projects, particularly the poultry project, are
                 complicated and difficult to implement properly. The poultry project targets are set for
                 upazilas, not for CNCs, in which case some CNCs may be neglected. The designs of both the
                 projects should be revisited and made simpler. The fixed target of 12 beneficiaries per CNC,
                 as in the case of home gardening, is also restrictive. All food insecure households having


                                                          49

            pregnant women, or under two year old child, or adolescent girl or married women of child
            bearing age in each CNC should be supported with household food security project.
        · Oversized CNCs were likely to create problems in the delivery of growth monitoring,
            supplementary feeding, nutrition counseling and other CNP activities. The CNC size should
            be revisited and readjusted.
        · Weight scales and height scales in all CNCs should be examined and the faulty scales should
            be replaced. All CNPs should be given refresher training on anthropometric measurements
            and BMI calculations.
        · Staff recruitment formalities in GOB run upazilas often created discontinuation of NNP
            services in the CNCs. The formalities should be made simpler.
NNP upazilas were different in nature. Some had hilly lands, others had hard to reach char areas.
Some had too many large CNCs. All these factors were likely to influence the performance of the
NGOs. The reasons for the performance of each of the NGOs should be identified and specific
actions to address the gaps should be agreed upon to improve performance.


              Malnutrition rates among under-2 children (Data source: NNP Baseline Survey 2004)
                                                           Survey area
                             NNP                    BINP               Comparison                All

 Indicator               No.         %       No.          %           No.        %         No.       %

 LAZ

 <-3.00 SD               579       11.5      216         10.4         193       11.3       988       11.2

 -3.000 SD to -2.01     1,237      24.6      490         23.5         396       23.2     2,124       24.1
 SD
 -2.00 SD to -1.01      1,627      32.4      665         31.9         529        31      2,821       32
 SD
 -1.00 SD and           1,583      31.5      715         34.3         589       34.5     2,886       32.7
 above
 WAZ
 <-3.00 SD               589       11.7      220         10.5         194       11.4     1,003       11.4

 -3.000 SD to -2.01     1,454      28.9      631         30.2         499       29.3     2,584       29.3
 SD
 -2.00 SD to -1.01      1,602      31.9      597         28.6         487       28.5     2,687       30.5
 SD
 -1.00 SD and           1,381      27.5      638         30.6         526       30.8     2,545       28.9
 above
 WLZ
 <-3.00 SD                86        1.7       34          1.6         19         1.1       140       1.6

 -3.000 SD to -2.01      595       11.8      241         11.6         207       12.2      1044       11.8
 SD
 -2.00 SD to -1.01      1,678      33.4      666         31.9         576       33.7      2920       33.1
 SD
 -1.00 SD and           2,666        53      1145        54.9         905        53       4716       53.5
 above

        Total                5,026                  2,086                 1,707                 8,819

NNP vs BINP, p=0.02; NNP vs Comparison, p= 0.02, for LAZ -1.00 SD and above
NNP vs BINP and Comparison, p<0.001, for WAZ -1.00 SD and above



                                                   50

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                      51

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry

Project design:
National Nutrition Project (NNP), a multisectoral nutrition project, was implemented by the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) under the leadership of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) along
with the support of IDA and RNE. CIDA also provided parallel funds to support some of the project
activities. The other ministries involved are the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Fisheries &
Livestock and Ministry of Women & Children Affairs. It was a partnership effort between the
Government & Non-Government Organizations (NGO) to improve the nutritional status of women and
children of Bangladesh. The implementing NGOs are BRAC, SARD, VOSD, TMSS, UJMS, BEES, SGS,
SHED, VARD, HEED Bangladesh for field level activities and BBF for IYCF activities. UNICEF was
assigned for BCC, ICDDRB for baseline survey, IPHN, BRAC & NIPORT for training related activities
of the project.

NNP was the modified and updated version of Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Program (BINP) that was
implemented during 1995-2002. According to DCA original implementing period of NNP-1 was July
2000 to June 2004 and the expected coverage for the Area-Based Community Nutrition (ABCN)
component was 139 upazilas including 61 BINP upazilas.

Implementation was delayed by three years due to disagreement between GOB and World Bank. So the
activities were compromised and the number of upazilas was reduced to 105. Some activities like learning
component, operations research, and mid-term evaluation were not possible to implement. After June
2004, there were two extensions. But due to the short period of extensions, these programs could not be
implemented.

GO-NGO collaboration concept in implementing NNP was an effective effort of GOB. The scope of
services provided by the implementing NGOs under the supervision of NNP were social mobilization,
management at field level, training of field workers, field level supervision, keeping liaison with relevant
Govt. officials at sub-national level, supporting in implementation of ABCN components of NNP.

Community involvement and participation was satisfactory. The community people including the teachers,
leaders, elites, religious leaders etc. were included as the member of nutrition management committees at
different levels. They contributed a lot by providing the space for he community nutrition center (CNC)
where the ABCN services were provided, which is an example of community ownership of the project by
the community.

Due to multisectoral nature of NNP, it involved three other ministries to ensure Household Food Security
through Nutrition Garden (HFSNG) and Poultry For Nutrition (PFN). These two sub-components of NNP
provided technical assistance and credit to the target groups for homestead gardening and poultry rearing
to ensure additional consumption of vegetables, protein and extra income to target groups.

The principal objective of NNP was to achieve sustainable improvement in nutrition status through
adoption of nutrition related desired behavior. Thus Behavioral Change Communication (BCC) was one
of the main components of NNP. Different forums and interpersonal communication (IPC) for target
groups, advocacy workshops for different level of community people, display of posting & billboard, TV
spot, street theater were the major BCC activities. Training was another major component of NNP. A
good number of human resources were developed through training from national to field level. About



                                                      52

2.75 lakh managers & field workers were trained those who are now capable of bringing nutrition related
behavioral changes in community and thus to improve nutritional status. UNICEF was selected as a single
source for BCC activities and IPHN, BRAC & NIPORT for training activities. During implementation it
was found that single source contracting sometimes failed to produce the desired result.

The project also gave an opportunity of employment of women (2383 CNO, 23244 CNP, WG 2,50,000)
and their income provided substantial monetary support to their families and enabled them to participate
in family decision-making process. They are accepted by HH and community level due to their nature of
work & some of them were later elected as public representative. Timely implementation of original
design of the project could have made the project more successful and effective.

Objective of the project:
The objectives of the Nutrition Project were to reduce the malnutrition among children and women
through formulation and implementation of countrywide nutrition program for a long- term perspective of
ten to fifteen years in phases. NNP was the first phase of a projected 10-15 years nutrition program of
four-year duration. Some unavoidable circumstances and unforeseen constraints delayed the project
implementation by almost three years.

2.     Original Objective:

Purpose and Objectives of NNP

The purpose of Nutrition Project is to achieve sustainable improvements in birth weights and nutrition
status of vulnerable groups through adoption of new behaviors among individuals and HH to nutrition
services that are increasingly managed by local communities.

Specific objectives to be achieved through NNP were formulated as follows:

1.     Severe Protein-Energy Malnutrition (WAZ<-3) in children under two reduced to 5%.
2.     Moderate Protein Energy Malnutrition (>-3WAZ<-2) in children under two reduced to 30%.
3.     Weight gain during pregnancy increased to > 9 kg in 50% of pregnant women.
4.     Incidence of Low Birth Weight (<2500 gm) reduced to <30%.
5.     Prevalence of Anemia among adolescent girls and pregnant women reduced by one third.

6.     Prevalence of Night Blindness among children age 1 to <5 years sustained at 0.5% or less.

7.     Prevalence of Iodine deficiency (urinary iodine excretion <10 g/dl) reduced by 50%.

3.     Project Components:

NNP had three components:
    A. National level nutrition interventions
    B. Area-Based Community Nutrition Interventions
    C. Program Support and institutional Development.

A. National Level Nutrition Services:
    National-level nutrition activities include:
    (i) BCC for appropriate caring and feeding practices for nutrition intervention target groups
    (ii) Breastfeeding Protection, Promotion and Support
    (iii) Micro-nutrient supplementation and



                                                    53

     (iv) Fortification of appropriate foods with micronutrients.

B. Area-Based Community Nutrition Services:

a. Children's Services
   i.    Birth weight recording and immediate special care for newborn baby and especially for Low
         Birth Weight (LBW) babies.
  ii.    Awareness building for colostrum feeding, Exclusive Breastfeeding (EBF) for first 6 months, and
         continuation breast-feeding up to 2 years or more.
 iii.    Promotion of appropriate, timely introduced and adequate complementary feeding.
 iv.     Growth monitoring and promotion (including counseling on improved caring practices, targeted
         and demonstrated supplementary feeding);
  v.     Micro-nutrient supplementation;
 vi.     Care during illness and referral to health services; and
vii.     Awareness building for immunization etc.

b. Maternal Nutrition Services
   i.    Pregnancy weight gain monitoring and promotion;
  ii.    Counseling for improved self-care and importance of pre-pregnancy weight gain,
 iii.    Supplementary feeding for severely malnourished pregnant women and nursing mothers;
 iv.     Micro-nutrient supplementation (Iron Folate and Vitamin-A);
  v.     Awareness building for Family Planning (FP) services; and
 vi.     Referral to health services.

c. Newly Married Couples Nutrition Services
   i.    Registration of newly married couples
  ii.    Nutrition counseling;
 iii.    Counseling on delayed first pregnancy and awareness building for FP services;
 iv.     Counseling on importance of adequate weight gain in pregnancy and Home-based weighing for
         newly pregnant women.
  v.     Personal hygiene and sanitation,
 vi.     Iron Folate tablet supplementation.

d. Adolescent Girl's Nutrition Services (13 to 19 Years)
   i.    Monthly nutrition education forum;
  ii.    Micro-nutrient supplementation;
 iii.    Bi-annual De-worming;
 iv.     Awareness about age of marriage;
  v.     Awareness about safety, security, personal hygiene, sanitation etc and their rights;
 vi.     Awareness about delay in pregnancy

e. Food Security Interventions
   1.       HFSNG
   2.       PFN
   3.       Vulnerable Group Development (VGD) - NNP implementation Collaboration:

C. Program Support and Institutional Development

   1.Project Management Unit (PMU)
   2. Monitoring, Evaluation and Operations Research



                                                      54

4.      Achievement by Key Indicators: (based on Monthly Performance Report)


  Sl                                  Indicator                                        Achievement
                                                                           Sept. 2004             August 2006
 1.       Severe malnutrition in <2 children                                     24%                  16%
 2.       Moderate malnutrition in <2 children                                   26%                25.26%
 3.       <2 children receiving supplementary food                              23.5%                8.07%
          Pregnant Women receiving supplementary food                            33%                17.77%
          Lactating Mother receiving supplementary food                         21.3%                8.66%
 4.       Pregnant women received Ante Natal Care (ANC)                          60%                  80%
 5.       Pregnant Women gained desired weight                                   2.5%                3.17%
 6.       LBW babies                                                             18%                  10%
 7.       Colostrum feeding                                                    99.05%               99.69%
 8.       EBF for first 6 month                                                  46%                  52%
 9.       Vitamin A Cap. (VAC)Coverage in Post natal women                       45%                 100%
 10.      Coverage of Iron in pregnant women**                                 87.84%                 62%
 11.      Household use of iodized salt                                          74%                  87%
 12.      Families where children are consuming 2 eggs/week.                    27.8%               97.98%
 13.      Beneficiaries getting additional income from NG/Nurseries             25.2%               30.40%
 14.      Families under VGD-NNP received benefit from ABCN                     43.3%               42.98%
          activities
*61 Upazilas from BINP included in NNP and started functioning in November 2003. Newly included 44 Upazilas
started field level activities in September 2004. So total 105 Upazilas started their activities in September 2004.
** Supply of Iron tablet was insufficient because of delay in procurement process.

5. Achievement by Component:

a. Training, Orientation and Training Monitoring:

      Sl                      Category                          Target            Achievement              %
     1. TOT Through IPHN                                    979 persons           886 Persons             90.5
     i Orientation of Nutrition Management                  139 batches           139 batches             100
     Committee
     2. Through Implementing NGOs
     i       Community Nutrition Promoter (CNP)             23245 persons         23217 persons           99.9
     ii      Community Nutrition Organizer (CNO)             2383 persons          2376 persons           99.7
     iii     Women Group (WG)                               255695 persons        250000 persons          97.8
     3. Management Training Through BRAC                     590 persons            503 persons           85.3
     4. Training Monitoring by NIPORT                         84 batches            74 batches            88.0
     5. Foreign Training                                  Total 80 persons were trained abroad in 9 countries




                                                           55

b. BCC through UNICEF:

 Sl                         Category                                 Target                 Achievement
1.    Revision, production and distribution BCC                                      Review, Printing and
      materials of BINP including poster, brochure,        All BINP                  Distribution of 20 types
      folder, flashcard, leaflet, dangler, booklets etc.   BCC materials             BCC materials of BINP.
2.    Development of Logo, Slogan and Jingle for NNP.      Logo-1, Slogan-1, Jingle- Logo-1, Slogan-1, Jingle-1
                                                           1
3.    Documentary on NNP                                   1 Doc. film               1 Doc. film
4.    Future Search Conferences (FSC)                      National level ­2, Sub-   National level-2,
                                                           National-105              Sub-National - 68
5.    Gender Sensitization of Workshop                     National-2, Sub-National- National-0, Sub-National-
                                                           105                       105
6.    Training of Trainers on Inter Personal               TOT-320, CNP-23000        TOT-320, CNO/CNP not
      Communication (IPC) of 320 people in 17 batches.     CNO-2383                  done
7.    Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) survey.                                 Completed
8.    Formative Research.                                                            Completed
9.    Development and production new advocacy                                        15 minute video:1,
      materials                                                                      Brochure- Eng:1000 and

                                                           As per demand             Beng: 10,000, Folder-
                                                                                     5,000, Amader Pusti
                                                                                     Katha :30,000, advocacy
                                                                                     Brochure: 9000, Games:4
10.   Development, production and distribution of                                    Wall-Clock-1858,
      promotional materials including wall-clock, crest    As per demand             Crest-542
      and handbags.                                                                  Handbags-12,300
11.   Development of new IPC materials including Flip                                Flip Chart for IPC-30,000
      chart (produced and distributed);                    As per demand

12.   Development, approval and airing of audio-visual
      material for electronic media                        6 TV spots                4 TV spots

13.   Radio Spots on nutrition issues                      6 Radio spots             4 radio spots
14.   Staging of Street Theatres at the community level    105 upazilas              105 upazilas
15.   Special BCC strategy development for Adolescent
      Girls and Boys and piloting in two upazilas          4 Unions of 2 Upazilas    4 Unions of 2 Upazilas

16.   Installation of Bill Boards in 105 NNP Upazilas.
      (1 billboard/upz)                                    105 billboards            105 billboards

17.   Development of design and contents of NNP Web-
      Site (www.nnpbd.org).                                                          Launched

18.   Script for 13 episode of TV and Radio drama                                    Script developed and
      serial                                               TV drama serial- 1        shooting completed, but
                                                           Radio drama serial - 1    not aired due to time
                                                                                     constraints.

c. BCC through Bangladesh Breast Feeding Foundation (BBF):
BCC activities were also performed through BBF & it has adopted a lot of BCC methods to disseminate
information of breast feeding related activities; such as establishment of bill-board at upz, publish Mayer
dudh' bulletin, printing of poster, airing of TV spot & advertisement and TV drama, printing of booklet,
poster, leaflet and BFHI hand book, development of resource book etc. Organize seminar & workshop at
national and sub-national Level.




                                                         56

d. Breastfeeding Activities: Performance Report of BBF:
BBF as a single source performed the breast-feeding component of NNP. Training on BF management of
275 Doctors and Nurses, Imams have been completed. 486 Baby friendly hospitals have been established
138 Civil Surgeons were oriented on BMS code. Mother Support Group (MSG) formation activities at
community level have been started in 60 Upazilas. 12 Lactation Management Center LMC) have been
established. To disseminate information regarding BF, one billboards has been erected in each of the 105
NNP Upzalias, TV Spot, advertisement and a TV drama aired. A Mayer dudh' bulletin and a research
bulletin were published of quarterly.

e. Vitamin A Supplementation:
Vitamin A capsules have been distributed countrywide in coordination with the DGHS among 1-5 years
aged children through National Immunization Day (NID) / National Vitamin A+ Campaigns. All CNPs,
CNOs, FSs and Upazila Nutrition Managers of the 105 upazilas participated actively in NID along with
the health and family planning workers. Supplementation for the under 1 children through Expanded
Programme of Immunization (EPI). CNOs and CNPs contributed to the EPI by motivating people for
immunization and finding the drop out cases during their home visit. NNP is providing post-partum
vitamin A supplementation in project area within 48 hours of delivery.

f. HFSNG: (Progress up to December 2005)
i) NutritionGarden:
Out of 2,80,017 Nutrition Gardens 2,69,240 (96%) were established and out of 5833 Nurseries, 5421
(93%) were established. All Nurseries are operating well till date even through project support was
withdrawn when the food security component were put on hold in December 2005.

ii) Credit distribution and realization:

The target for the credit distribution was Tk. 874.95 lakh, of which 865.89 lakh was disbursed in the
project period and 100% was realised.

iii) Training:
       Sl.          Type of Training                                 No of Participants
       N                                           Target                  Achieved                Achieved (%)
       a)
        o
                Orientation for field               417                        417                     100%
       b)       Block Supervisor                    2545                      2475                     97%
       c)       Village Nursery owner               5833                      5804                     99%
       d)       Nutrition Garden owner             280017                    270705                    97%
       e)       Refresher Training for              5421                      5229                     96%
        f)      Foreign Training               53 Officers from Central office & field levelreceived Training

iv) Promotion of Perennial fruit trees: Out of 843048, 451255 (54%) seedlings of Papaya, out of
281232, 233552 (83%) seedlings of Guava and out of 281232, 229690 (82%) seedlings were distributed
among beneficiaries.




                                                     57

g. Poultry For Nutrition: (Progress up to December 2005)
      Sl.
      N                 Item                Target     Achievement                 Remarks
      o.
               Training
      1.       (a) Basic                    180625       180625                      100%
               (b) Refresher                180625       165193                      91.46%

      2.       Establishment of
               Unit                         180625       180625                      100%

               Micro Credit

               (a) Distribution of          1930.50                       46% (due to short project

      3.       Credit                        Lakh      881.85 Lakh        life and piecemeal
                                                                          extension contracts)

               (b) Realization               881.85
                                             Lakh      881.85 Lakh                   100%


h. VGD ­ NNP Collaboration:
About 9306 Children under 2 years, 3168 Pregnant women, 3040 Lactating mother, 12291 Adolescent
girls and 2615 Newly wed couples from VGD card holder families received ABCN services. IGA
Training under VGD-NNP collaboration were given in the following areas:

          Sl. No.                      Item                    Number of participants

         1           Poultry Rearing Management                         6712
         2           Livestock Rearing Management                      31830
         3           Vegetable Cultivation                             19937
         4           Small Enterprise Management                        882
         5           Pisciculture Management                            212


i. Status of Procurement of Goods (core program 2001-2006):


Sl. No.         Name of Item            Procured       Total Cost (BDT)            Procurement Time
1.       Iron and Folic Acid            671 million      9,22,48,820/-                 2004-2006.
   2.    Deworming tablets              7.27 million     2,060,4,400/-                 2004-2006
   3.    Vitamin A Capsule             194.1 million      35,34,724/-                  2003-2007
   4.    Uniscale                         21446           15,45,097/-                  2004-2005
   5.    Office Furniture                  Lot            21,13,000/-                  2001-2005
   6.    Office Equipment:                 Lot            30,04,600/-                  2003-2005
   7.    Print Materials                   Lot            59653343/-                   2004-2006
   8.    Stationeries                      Lot            3448166/-                    2003-2005
   9.    Vehicle                            11            18648646/-                     2004


6. Lessons Learned:

NNP was developed based on the design and experiences of BINP. The Project was supposed to be
implemented for a period of 2000 to 2004. But due to delay at approval of project proposal and delay in
signing of NGO contract, it was actually implemented from November 2003 to August 2006 with two
extensions. Therefore the smooth implementation of the project was hampered. It may be mentioned that
piecemeal extensions had to be done, because HNPSP was not fully operational to take over the activities




                                                     58

of the nutrition sub sector. The experiences gained during implementation of the project activities helped
much in planning the future activities under HNPSP. Experiences are as below:

(i) Growth Monitoring & Promotion helps in early detection of malnutrition and thus is effective to
prevent severe malnutrition in young children.
(ii) Female workers can substantially play an important role in improving child and maternal nutrition
status, if properly trained and supported.
(iii) Community ownership of nutrition activities can be generated through effective social mobilization
(iv) GO-NGO collaboration can be effective, efficient and responsive to run a program at community
level.
(v) Involvement of the community peoples with the program increases the ownership of the program in
the community.
(vi) Involvement and participation of male in the program is necessary for achieving the goal.
(vii) Advocacy among people leading to guidance so that community can improve the nutritional status in
their own areas without external help.
(viii) For sustainable improvement of nutritional status of the target people, effective food security
interventions are essential but this part was withheld during the last extension, which hampered
achievement.
(ix) The underprivileged children, pregnant & lactating women, adolescent girls and newly wed couples
are immensely benefited from these collaboration activities.

7. Bank Performance

Lending:

A Special Account (CONTASA A/C No.36002249) was established in the name of the project, which was
maintained in Bangladeshi Taka. The Initial Deposit into the Special Account was BDT 21,54,00,000.00
and the full authorization (total deposit) for the project was BDT 42,07,73,000.00 (equivalent to USD
70,80,000.00). For replenishment of eligible expenditures, normally W/A was submitted to the Bank at
monthly intervals including reconciled Bank Statements. Withdrawal Applications were made on the
basis of SOE (Statement of Expenditure). The World Bank replenished regularly in all the cases.
However, the whole replenishment procedure was time consuming. NNP had to send the W/A to the
World Bank, Chennai Office. Then Bank processed the W/A. Sometimes Bank had queries. So, the total
replenishment procedure took 30-45 days. This ultimate led to delayed payments to the NGOs. It would
be better if the replenishment was made from Dhaka Office, as was before.

Supervision:

1. Overall supervision: There were six Task managers in the project period. The task managers, except
two, operated the project activities from abroad. Frequent change of task managers slows down some
activities including supervision.
2. Review Mission: Total nine Review Missions visited NNP activities from July 2000 to August 2006.
3. WB official's visit: Mr. Sundararajan Gopalan, Ms Meera Shekar, Ms Jayshree Balachandar, Mr. Kees
Kostermans, Ms Julian Schweitzer visited NNP field at different time. Dr. Farzana Ishrat visited the field
several times and maintained regular communication with PMU. Regular meetings were held between
NNP and WB at NNP office. More field visits and interaction with the field workers by the WB officials
may help to improve the program activities.




                                                       59

Overall Bank Performance:

Bank's performance was mixed, at times very frustrating and obstructing project implementation. The
DCA was signed in 2000, but the PP was approved by ECNEC in 2003. This delay was due to Bank's
refusal to agree to ECNEC decisions. As a result there was delay in project implementation by 3 years of
a 4 years project when WB accepted the ECNEC decisions.

The review mission discussed in details the different implementation issues and their recommendations
helped NNP to improve its performance but sometimes the peevishness of WB created problem to some
activities. Due to the repeated negative recommendations on FSC, IPC training and adolescent related
BCC components and referral training could not be completed as per work plan. Procurement plan needed
prior review and clearance of WB. Most of the time, WB took too much time and gave many queries,
which delayed the initiation of the procurement process. The tendency to impose the decision by WB
obstructed the normal flow of the program activities. Otherwise WB was very much cooperative to
support NNP. Several bipartite and tripartite meetings were held to settle the audit objections against
some NGOs. The delay in accepting the NGO audit objection settlement delayed payment to NGOs,
which ultimately affected quality of services by the concerned NGO.

8. NNP Performance

Lending:

Financial Management (FM) involves broadly three distinct but interrelated elements like budgeting,
expenditure reporting and auditing. Fund allocation, release and disbursement are the starting point of FM
and it is critically important. Fund allocation involves timely submission of budget estimates to the line
Ministry with requisite details and relevant documents in support of the estimate. There are established
procedures for release and disbursement of funds for the development project. Expenditures reporting and
auditing are also being done on regular basis as specified in the Government orders and as per World
Bank guidelines.

All the expenditures of the project are being incurred as per schedule-1 of DCA. The Project has a Special
Account (CONTASA A/C No. 36002249) for IDA money. Payments out of the Special Account are made
from the GOB money following existing treasury systems as matching fund.

The overall FM is good enough for accounting, reporting, auditing and to prevent any misuse of funds.
NNP has been submitting quality Financial Monitoring Reports on a regular basis. The project has good
internal control arrangements in terms of splitting approval and payment functions to various departments.
There is a full unit with a director heading the unit.

Supervision:

1. National level: In early 2004 the project suffered from adequate leadership but the Govt. addressed this
in late 2004 and the same Executive director continues till end of the project.

Coordinated Field visit by PMU Officials with standard checklist were accomplished. Field supervision
were strengthened by National, regional, and upazilas level managers of the implementing NGOs.
Honorable Ministers, Whip, State Ministries, Member of Parliament (MP), local Government bodies and
officials were involved in NNP activities. Four Minister and Twenty One MPs have visited NNP field.




                                                      60

2. Field level: Committees- DNMC, UZNMC, UNMC & CNCMC meetings were held every month
where the Committee members reviewed NNP activities. Meeting of NNP management committee
headed by Honorable Secretary, MOHFW was held every 3 months where NNP activities were reviewed
and necessary instruction and direction for the program were given.

3. Performance review: Performance review of NGOs was done four times through committee
consisting of members from NNP, IMED, Planning Commission, NIPORT, MOHFW and DPs.

4. Coordination meetings with NGOs: Monthly coordination meetings were held at NNP with partner
NGOs and BBF in the meeting. Monthly Performance Report (MPR) was reviewed with necessary
instruction and direction for improvement of the project.

Overall NNP Performance:

Overall NNP Performance is appreciable. Although NNP started functioning 3 years after the actual date
of commencement, but NNP has achieved a commendable success in its program implementation,
monitoring, supervision at field level activities, financial achievement, baseline survey, training etc. The
achievement of administration and procurement was also satisfactory. Few specific examples as below
can show the efficiency of PMU, NNP:

     1.     Program Implementation: Program was successfully implemented in 105 upazilas with
effective progress in population coverage, growth monitoring activities, training and local level BCC
activities, community involvement through forums and meetings, creating awareness for health and
nutrition among people, income generation through food security program.
     2.  Monitoring and Evaluation: NNP has developed a good and strong monitoring and evaluation
system. A monthly monitoring report based on performance has been published each month. Checklists
were developed for regular field visit as well as NGO performance review. Monthly coordination
meetings were held regularly to review the monthly performance report.
     3.  Administration and Procurement: Recruitment of staff and selecting core officials for PMU was
done in 2003 after the Bank accepted ECNEC decision in January 2003. Selection of NGOs was
completed in 2003. Contract for training, BCC, Breastfeeding activities, IQUAG (BBS/HKI) were done
in time, except referral training, the proposal of which did not meet the requirement and IQUAG-INFS
due to budget and time constrain. WB did not clear these. Besides Procurement of all Goods as medicine,
printing materials, vehicles, office equipments etc done successfully.
     4.  Financial Management: Although the financial achievement of NNP in the first two years were
not satisfactory due to delay in start. Nonetheless the achievement in the current fiscal year is highly
satisfactory. In Financial Year 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 the financial progress is 89.29% and 97.60%
against the budget allocation respectively. The total financial progress of NNP up to August 2006 is 84%
and IDA and NLG it is 86% and respectively (considering exchange rate as of 03.10.2006 ­ WB
Connection).
     5.  Coordination: NNP has successfully organized several workshops in collaboration with WB,
UNICEF at National and Field level. Different experience sharing meetings were arranged in NNP with
Concern Bangladesh, Care Bangladesh, Plan Bangladesh, CIDA, HKI, Save the Children-USA,
Micronutrient Initiatives etc. PMU officials attended several meetings at Govt. and NGOs.

9. Sustainability:

i.   Behavior Change Communication
 · Advocacy and different BCC activities as IPC, forum, printing materials etc. have brought changes in
behavior of the community people regarding Health & Nutrition.



                                                      61

ii. Human Resource Development
· A good member of young girl/women got the opportunity of employment. About 2,3,83 women as
CNO and 23,2,44 women as CNPs were employed in the project.
· A number of people were developed who are capable of mobilizing communities to take action against
  malnutrition and skilled to bring changes in nutrition related behavior of the household members. CNO
  and CNPs were the key personnel visiting home and performing the job through IPC, forum.

iii. Women's Empowerment
· The work and income together support to the families and thus the women working as CNO/CNP/WG
  have gained some decision making power in the family.
· The work has made women socially empowered and respectable in the community.

iv. Awareness of nutrition through Gardening & Poultry rearing
People have developed interest in homestead Gardening and Poultry rearing which increases
consumption of vegetable, fruits, egg, meat etc. It also accepted as income generation activities.
v. Income generation

· The graduated women of the VGD-NNP program are participating in normal development activities of
  NGO and improving their economic status through trainers and income generation.

10. Financial Achievements:

                            Original Investment Cost of the Project (as per PP)
 Sl. No       Donor                BDT (in lakh)              Equivalent (USD million)               Grant/
    1          GOB                    7,034.90                            13.66                      Grant
    2          IDA                   37,380.00                            92.00                       Loan
    3          NLG                    6,437.50                            12.50                      Grant
    4          CIDA                   3,244.50                              6.30                     Grant
                    Total            64,096.90                            124.46                     Grant
Note 1: USD 1 = Tk. 51.50, I SDR = 1,343065 USD (as on May, 2000).
Note 2: The exchange rate has changed, but this has not been adjusted later on.
Note 3: The original allocation is SDR 68,500,000,00; later on Bank has cancelled SDR 17,136,140.00. Now, the
        amount stands at SDR 51,363,800.00 at mid-term review since the project had lost 3 yrs. of implementation
        and was unlikely to use all the fund.
Note 4: The original allocation of NLG is USD 1,25,00,000.00; later on USD 17,62,877.00 has been cancelled. Now,
        the amount stands at USD 1,24,72,877.00.
Note 5: There was a Memorandum of Understand (MOU) with UNICEF for BCC and Procurement of UNISCALEs
and Vitamin-A. The agreed amount for BCC is USD 5,999,999.00, for UNISCALEs is USD 3,063,905.00 and for
Vitamin A was USD 4,936,068.00. The MOU expired on 31 December 2005.




                                                        62

              Category wise expenditure of PMU up to August, 2006 (Amount in BDT)
    Category                 Category Description (up to August, 2006)                   Expenditure
        1          Goods                                                            25,868,141.72
        2          Consultant service (including NGOs)                              4,219,105,720.00
        3          Operating cost and Maintenance                                   91,346,005.20
                                                                            Total   4,336,319,866.92
Note: Considering estimated cost for July-August, 2006.

                       Allocations and Spending by UNICEF (Amount in USD)
 Sl. No     Line Items               Allocation                   Expenditure                   Balance
   1       UNISCALEs               3,063,905.00                   1,545,097.00                1,518,808.00
   2        Vitamin A              4,936,068.00                   3,534,724.00                2,920,151.00
               Sub-Total           7,999,973.00                   5,079,822.00                2,920,151.00
   3           BCC                 5,999,999.00                   2,776,268.00                3,223,731.00
             Grand Total          13,999,972.00                   7,856,090.00                6,143,882.00
Note: Exchange rate on 03.10.2006: 1 USD = 70.375 BDT.

Allocation for IDA is BDT 49518.14 lakh and allocation for NLG is BDT 8144.79 lakh (WB Client
Connection as on 03/10/2006). Total Allocation for IDA & NLG is BDT 57662.93. Total expenditure up
to August 2006 for IDA is BDT 42674.04 lakh (88%), for NLG is BDT 5819.19 lakh (12%) and
cumulative expenditure for IDA & NLG is BDT 48493.23 lakh. The financial progress for IDA is 86%
and for NLG is 75%. And the total financial progress is 84%. The money transferred to UNICEF for
procurement of Uniscale, Vit-A cap. and BCC activities was spent only 56% which hampers the financial
progress.

11. Conclusions:

The National Nutrition Project (NNP) aims at improving the nutritional status of children and women.
Program results indicate that nutrition services and social mobilization can bring changes in nutritional
behavior and in the nutritional status of children and women over a period of time. Though the pace has
been slow, the improvement in nutritional status has been observed among children under two. The
program will further contribute to improving nutritional status on a large scale through expansion,
redesigning, and strengthening of the system.

12. Recommendations:
    i.      Short contract period for GO-NGO partnership became a bottleneck in smooth
            implementation of the program. So the contract period should not be less than at least 2 yrs.
    ii.     Timely starting and smooth operation of a program can give a required impact and outcome
            of the program.
    iii.    Educational qualification of CNP should be at least Secondary School Certificate (SSC) level.
    iv.     An increased honorarium of CNO, CNP can improve their satisfaction and commitment to
            nutrition services.
    v.      Involvement and participation of male in the program is necessary for achieving the goal.
    vi.     Inclusion of nutrition in academic curriculum is essential
vii.    For sustainable improvement of nutritional status of the target people, Food security interventions
        are essential..




                                                       63

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Assessments from CIDA:

Overall comment: With the frequent turnover of the Director of NNP coupled with staff who have
limited knowledge/training/skills in this sector, trying to influence policy or program dialogue and
implementation has been a major challenge. To date, the so called integration of Nutrition in HNPSP has
been only on paper and not yet in practice. If the majority of DPs are in favour of establishing a separate
Directorate for Nutrition, it is puzzling as to why one still refers to Nutrition as a sub-sector which
conveys the impression that it will be led by the Directorate of Health. The GoB has yet to make any firm
commitment towards establishing/initiating a formal institutional arrangement for Nutrition. The Program
is still functioning as a Project.

CIDA Support: CIDA is currently providing support for the procurement of iron-folate tablets;
operational research: the baseline survey of NNP was funded under this component; funding to BBF (no
funds provided since August 2006); and more recently some support for the surveillance work of HKI.

Iron-folate procurement: The content of folate in the Fe-folate tablets is now as per international and
national guidelines i.e. 400 mcg vs. previous procurement of tablets with 250 mcg of folate. Further, the
use of blister packs and this has now been incorporated in the bidding documents.

In the context of the Health SWAp (which includes nutrition), procurement systems need strengthening.
Once Nutrition is truly integrated in HNPSP, and the GOB's Procurement Cell is strengthened,
procurement of Nutrition Commodities should be streamlined with this process and a separate/parallel
mechanism should not be used as is the case at present. In this context, it would be helpful for the
Nutrition Task Group (NTG) to liaise closely with the Procurement Task Group.

Anemia in the NNP target population cannot obviously be addressed through the provision of Fe-folate
alone. While there is mention in the document of some improvements in anemia related indictors for
women, it ought to be mentioned that the ongoing program does not adequately address the very high
rates of iron-deficiency anemia especially among 6-11 month old children. The IYCF strategy will likely
be endorsed soon and good implementation of this may help address this problem to a large extent. It is
equally important to emphasize linkages with and the need to scale up fortification activities at the
national level (not just the need to fortify supplementary food provided through NNP). Improving food
security activities based on lessons learned is equally important especially with regard to sustainability.

Support to BBF: CIDA funded the external audit and evaluation of BBF through NNP. Both audit
reports did reveal significant problems especially in relation to financial management. The project should
not have sole sourced this activity to one organization. In the future, the recommendation is that IYCF
activities should be integrated in community based nutrition activities implemented by NGOs
contracted/selected by the MSA.

Operations research: As mentioned earlier, the baseline survey of NNP was funded by CIDA through
funds allocated to this component. CIDA support to NNP ends in March 2007 and I doubt if there will be
another no-cost extension. CIDA would like to carry out another evaluation before their support to the
project ends. However this will likely be a mid-term evaluation rather than an end-line evaluation given
that base line was conducted very recently. This is only possible if, project activities can be carried out
after the agreement ends (subject to funds being disbursed prior to end of agreement). If not, since the
remainder of the money goes back to the GoB's Counterpart Fund pool (and not CIDA), the NTG may



                                                      64

advocate for the allocation of this money for Nutrition activities.
Support to HKI: There were significant delays getting approval from the Ministry. The Contract was
finally signed on January 14, 2007. It has 3 components:

A) Anemia study which is a follow-up of HKI-IPHN 2004 anemia study (only adolescent girls in NNP
areas will be included; cross sectional study involving comparisons between data for 2004 and 2006);

B) Reanalyses of NNP data from March 2004 to 2005 and comparison with data from 2005 to 2006;

C) Document case-studies of CNPs in relation to women's empowerment and other impacts on
beneficiaries (this component was included based on specific request from NNP Director. According to
HKI it is unlikely that this component will be completed by March 2007).

Comments from The Government of the Netherlands: The main goal of the NNP was to significantly
reduce malnutrition, especially among poor women and children. During the NNP years Bangladesh
indeed showed an overall decline in malnutrition. It now seems that Bangladesh is the only country in the
South Asia region that will achieve the nutrition MDG of halving under-weight rates between 1990 and
2015. Overall, the project was able to provide opportunities for women and adolescent girls to learn about
their nutritional and health needs, and bring about social change. Even though the NNP faced
programmatic, managerial and institutional challenges , it certainly is a commendable achievement that
nutrition is now integrated in HNPSP. We do hope that the lessons learned from NNP will be effectively
used in HNPSP, particularly those related to NGO contracting.

Considering the high levels of malnutrition in Bangladesh, nutrition will require sustained, effective and
efficient response by government in collaboration with the World Bank, donors, UN agencies and civil
society. The agreement reached with GoB on an improved nutrition package to be introduced in the next
phase of NNP is certainly an important step in this direction.
The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands supports the overall Assessments provided in the ICR.




                                                     65

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoire Identification Mission. July 1998.
Aide Memoire Preparation Mission. July 1999.
Aide Memoire Supervision Mission. December 2005.
------. Supervision Mission. August 2006.
------. Supervision Mission. February 2005.
------. Supervision Mission. May 2001.
------. Supervision Mission. May 2002.
------. Supervision Mission. October 2002.
------. Supervision Mission. February 2003.
------. Supervision Mission. December 2003.
Bangladesh Country Management Unit, South Asia Region; April 2006.
Bangladesh Health and Population Sector Program: Annual Program Review. April 2005.
Bangladesh, People's Republic of. 2005. Unlocking the Potential: National Strategy for
   Accelerated Poverty Reduction. Dhaka, Bangladesh: Government of the People's Republic
   of Bangladesh, General Economics Division, Planning Commission.
Bangladesh. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. 2006. Report of the Independent Quality
   Assurance Survey 2005 on National Nutrition Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh: Ministry of
   Health and Family Welfare, Demography and Health Wing, Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics,
   Planning Division.
Bhuiyan, R.H., S. Rahman, Q.M. Rahman, H. Kabir. 2005. Follow-up/Impact Evaluation Study
   on Poultry for Nutrition Training of the National Nutrition Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh:
   National Institute of Population Research and Training.
Choudhury, A.Y, A.B.M.M. Rahman, and K.K. Biswas. 2005. Training Follow-up/Impact
   Evaluation Study on Vulnerable Group Development under VG D-NNP Implementation
   Collaboration Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh: National Institute of Population Research and
   Training.
Development Credit Agreement. June 2000.
Haider, S.J., M.H. Alam, S. Ferdous, F. Begum, S. Giasuddin, D. Pervin. 2005. Follow-up Study
   to Evaluate Impact of Community Nutrition Organizer and Community Nutrition Promoter
   Training of the National Nutrition Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh: National Institute of
   Population Research and Training.
HKI (Hellen Keller International). 2006. Bangladesh in Facts and Figures: 2005 Annual Report
   of the National Surveillance Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh: Helen Keller International.
ICDDR,B (International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh), IPHN (Institute
   of Public Health Nutrition) and (NIPORT) National Institute of Population Research and
   Training. 2005. National Nutrition Programme Baseline Survey 2004. Dhaka, Bangladesh:
   ICDDR,B: Centre for Health and Population Research.
Karim, R., F.J. Levinson, M. Akhtaruzzaman, and S. Lamstein. 2002. Process and Impact Study
   of BINP Garden and Poultry Activities. Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, University of
   Dhaka and The Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University. Dhaka,
   Bangladesh: ICDDR,B (International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh).
Karim, R., M.H. Bhuiyan, and N. Alam. 2006. NGO Operations in Bangladesh National
   Nutrition Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh: Data Management Aid.
Khan, M.S.H., N. Chakraborty, A.P.M.S. Rahman, T. Nasrin. 2005. Follow-up/Impact
   Evaluation Study on Nutrition Gardening Training of the National Nutrition Project. Dhaka,


                                               66

   Bangladesh: National Institute of Population Research and Training.
OED (Operations Evaluation Department). 2005. Maintaining Momentum to 2015? An Impact
   Evaluation of Interventions to Improve Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition in
   Bangladesh. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
Pelletier, D., M. Shekar, L. Du, and C. Kostermans. Bangladesh Development Series Paper No.
   8: The Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project Effectiveness and Lessons. Washington, D.C:
   South Asia Human Development Unit, World Bank.
Progress Report on Mainstreaming Nutrition in Maternal and Child Health Programs. FY06
   World Bank Direct Grant Facility, ICDDR,B; July 2006
Progress Report to the Joint Review Mission (13-17 August 2006); Project Management Unit,
   National Nutrition Project
Progress Report: Household Food Security through Nutrition Gardening under NNP. Department
   of Agricultural Extension, Ministry of Agriculture (GOB); December 2005
Project Concept Note, (September 1998)
Project Information Document (March 2000) Report No. PID 6957.
Project Supervision Report (PSR) Numbers 1-14.
World Bank. 2000. Project Appraisal Document: Report No. 20333-BD. Washington, D.C:
   World Bank.
------. 2002. Report No. 25183: Implementation Completion Report of the Bangladesh
   Integrated Nutrition Project. Washington, D.C: World Bank.
------. 2005. Bangladesh Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Washington, D.C.: Poverty
   Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank.
------. 2005. Project Appraisal Document: Health Nutrition and Population Sector Program -
   Report No. 31144-B. Washington, D.C: World Bank.
------. 2006. Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy 2006-2009. Washington, D.C.: World
   Bank.
------. 2006. Implementation Completion Report: ICR Mission, September 17-27, 2006.
   Washington, D.C.: Project Management Unit, National Nutrition Project, World Bank
------. 2006. Towards a Strategy for Achieving the Millennium Development Outcomes in
   Bangladesh. Washington, D.C.: Human Development Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank.




                                              67

