Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20333-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.5 MILLION
(US$92 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FORA
NATIONAL NUTRITION PROJECT
April 25, 2000
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 3, 2000)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (TK)
Crore Taka = 10 million Taka
Lakh Taka = 100,000 taka
TK51.0=US$ 1.0
US$ 0.0194 = TK. 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
List of Abbreviations
ABCN          - Area Based Community Nutrition
ATFPO         - Assistant Thana Family Planning Officer
BBF           - Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation
BCC           - Behavior Change Communication
BINP          - Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
CHT           - Chittagong Hill Tracts
CNC           - Community Nutrition Center
CNO           - Community Nutrition Organizer
CNP           - Community Nutrition Promoter
HPSP          - Health and Population Sector Program
ICDDR,B       - International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh
ICMH          - Institute of Child and Mother Health
INFS          - Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, Dhaka University
IPHN          - Institute of Public Health Nutrition
IQUAG         - Independent Quality Assurance Group
MOHFW         - Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NIPORT        - National Institute of Population Research and Training
OED           - Operations Evaluation Department
PMU           - Project Management Unit
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Director:    Richard Lee Skolnik
Social Sector Team Leader:    Wm. Bradford Herbert
Task Team Leader    A. F. M. Igbal Kabir



BANGLADESH
NATIONAL NUTRITION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Sununary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           14
4. Institutional                                                                       15
5. Social                                                                              16
6. Environment                                                                         17
7. Participatory Approach                                                              17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     18
2. Critical risks                                                                      19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           20
2. Other                                                                             21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        42
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis Summary                                        44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or                     48
Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           63
Annex 11: Implementation Schedule                                                       65
MAP(S)



BANGLADESH
National Nutrition Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHP
Date: April 25, 2000                             Team Leader: A. F. M. Iqbal Kabir
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple   Sector Manager/Director: Richard Lee Skolnik
Project ID: P050751                              Sector(s): HH - Population, Health & Nutrition Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
F Loan         Z Credit        F] Grant       F] Guarantee    D Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 92,000,000
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                Service charge: 0.75%
Government                                                   13.66           0.00         13.66
IBRD
IDA                                                          78.00          14.00         92.00
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                     6.30           0.00          6.30
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                                 4.80           7.70         12.50
Total:                                                      102.76          21.70        124.46
Borrower: GOB
Responsible agency: MOHFW
Mnistry of Health & Family Welfare
Contact Person: Secretary, MOHFW
Estimated disbur ements Bank FYUS$M:
091- .  .: :-   - I;E 9
Annual     5.6         20.8        29.8        35.8
Cumulative     5.6         26.4        56.2       92.0
Project implementation period: 4
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD R, P-. M.e h 2M0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The National Nutrition Project (NNP) will be the first of a series of investments which will support the
Government's 15 year vision to extend community nutrition services to the entire country. This vision is
outlined in the Government's National Nutrition Program and is further developed in the National Plan of
Action. The goal of the national program is to improve nutritional status to the extent that malnutrition will
no longer be a public health problem.
NNP will build on experiences and lessons learned from the recently completed sector work and the
on-going IDA supported Bangladesh Integrated Nutritional Project (BINP). The development objective of
NNP is to significantly reduce malnutrition, especially among poor women and children. This will be
achieved through the adoption of new changes in behavior and appropriate use of nutrition services which
will be increasingly managed by local communities. NNP will establish important links with the Ministry
of Education by incorporating general nutrition knowledge in the school curricula, and increasing the
coverage of the Ministry of Women and Children's Affairs' Vulnerable Group Development Program to
the poorest households in the country.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key outcome indicators for measuring and monitoring progress will be: reduced prevalence of severe and
moderate child malnutrition, reduced prevalence of vitamin-A deficiency and iron deficiency anemia,
increased use of iodized salt, increased pre-pregnancy and pregnancy weight gains, reduced low birth
weight, and increased practice of exclusive breastfeeding followed by timely introduction of complementary
food.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17453-BD                Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/03/98
(Progress Report discussed on 07/20/99) Despite some recent positive changes, levels of malnutrition in
Bangladesh remain the highest in the world: 58% of under five children are underweight and 51% are
stunted; nearly 50% of women suffer from chronic energy deficiency; low birthweight incidence is
estimated at 45%, perhaps the highest in the world; and micronutrient deficiencies are rampant resulting in
over 70% of pregnant women being anemic. In economic terms, the costs of malnutrition are high for
Bangladesh due to lost productivity, reduced intellectual and learning capacity, and an overburdened
primary health care system. In human terms the costs are even higher as a result of childhood and maternal
illness and death, and heart disease and diabetes later in life. For Bangladesh to position itself to meet the
challenges of promoting sustainable economic and human development, it must invest in the reduction of
malnutrition and the improvement of the nutritional status of the people.
The World Bank's strategic mission in Bangladesh is to help reduce poverty by promoting rapid,
job-creating economic-growth and interventions that directly assist the poor. Strategic priorities adopted
for World Bank operations, including NNP, include the promotion of rapid progress in human development
to reduce poverty and complement rapid economic growth.
Besides directly improving nutrition status, as aimed for under the CAS vision, NNP activities would also
improve health, increase demand for family planning, and improve children's ability to learn and would,
therefore, contribute indirectly to the health, population and education sector objectives of the CAS.
Benefits from the project would disproportionately accrue to the poor. Project interventions would,
- 2 -



moreover, contribute significantly to the achievement of the gender equity and social development goals of
the CAS. Also, by expanding the role of local communities, the private sector and NGOs, the Project
would improve overall governance in the sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
During the preparation of the recently completed sector report on malnutrition, a number of sector issues
were identified. One of the main findings of the sector report indicates that availability of food is not
always the chief cause of malnutrition. For example, in Bangladesh about 50% of malnourished children
live in households which have sufficient food. The underlining causes of malnutrition, therefore, tend to be
associated not just with food security but with behavior, social attitudes, and a lack of understanding and
knowledge of nutritional needs. The sector report also highlights a number of sector issues associated with
weak institutional and management capacity.
The main structural and institutional issues of the nutrition sector have been recognized by policy makers
and decisions have been taken to address them. For example, in areas such as behaviour change, the
Government's policy is to be a purchaser of services rather than attempting to deliver those services
through its own structure. In this respect, most activities under NNP will be contracted out to qualified
NGOs and managed by local communities which will be guided by inputs from beneficiaries. Some of
these services will include introducing proper child and matemal self caring practices, promoting and
protecting breastfeeding practices, and providing counseling to women and adolescent girls. In respect to
distributing micronutrients to the population at large, the Government's strategy is to rely on the Ministry
of Health for contracting and monitoring distribution. The Government's strategy to purchase services
from NGOs at the community level and using the Ministry of Health to meet the needs of delivering
micronutirents is sound.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Government's commitment to the 15-year National Nutrition Program will require a meaningful
increase in spending. NNP will provide about US$124.5 million during the planned four years of
implementation. This is more than two and one-half times the current level of spending. In addition to
providing financial resources, NNP will address many of the sector issues identified in the nutrition sector
report. Specifically it will:
*   focus on behavioral aspects of nutrition to the nutrition sector as well as to related sectors like
agriculture and health;
*   incorporate household food security activities, but with the important addition of linkage to the GOB's
Vulnerable Group Development Program (VGD) that targets the 'ultra-poor" who cannot participate in
agro-based subsistence activities;
*   target populations that, although at nutritional risk, have not been covered in the past (such as
adolescent girls, residents in the Chittagong Hill Tracts [CHT], and in urban slum areas);
*   provide micronutrient interventions including: (i) weekly iron/foliate supplementation prior to
pregnancy, (ii) fortifying staple foods; and (iii) develop and strengthen management capacity through
the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU), which will work closely with the Line
Directors of the MOHFW under the Health and Population Sector Project (HPSP). Later in the series
of NNP Projects, the PMU's functions will be integrated into the mainstream Health and Population
Sector Program (an appraisal of the management capacity within MOHFW indicated that there is
limited capacity to introduce the PMU functions at this time). Capacity building for NGOs contracted
for field implementation will include the adoption of innovative procedures for contract management
and performance monitoring, including NGO-to-NGO capacity building and mentoring.
-3 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project consists of two components: A Service Component and the Project Support and Institutional
Development Component. The Service Component is comprised of two sub-components: (i)Area-Based
Community Nutrition; and (ii) National Level Nutrition Services. The Project Support and Institutional
Development Component is comprised of three sub-components: (i) Project Management and Institutional
Development; (ii) Monitoring, Evaluation, and Operations Research; and (iii) Training and Behavioral
Change Communications.
(a)    Services Component
i.    Area-Based Community Nutrition (ABCN) Services Sub-Component: There are three main causes
of malnutrition in Bangladesh: behavior, poor health and poverty. This sub-component, which focuses at
the community level, will: (i) improve behavior practices in critical areas such as breastfeeding, timely
introduction of solid foods, and increase food intake during pregnancy; (ii) increase awareness and
treatment of malnutrition in the primary health care system; and (iii) provide food security and income
generating activities to the poorest households in the community. ABCN will be implemented by NGOs.
ii.    National Level Nutrition Services Sub-Component: Through aggressive marketing, many poor and
uneducated women believe breast milk substitutes are healthier and more nutritious than breastmilk. As a
result they often prefer these substitutes and thus lose the natural benefits of mother's milk. In addition,
because of their poverty level, they often dilute the mixture to a point where any possible nutritional value
is minimized. The result is increased malnutrition and water-bome diseases among infants. The National
Level Nutrition Services sub-component addresses this concem by funding the Bangladesh Breastfeeding
Foundation which promotes and protects breastfeeding.
Another contributing factor to malnutrition in Bangladesh is micronutrient deficiency (vitamin A, iron, and
folic acid). This sub-component will provide funding for national micronutrient supplements.
Additionally, the sub-component will provide technical assistance to draft legislation on fortification and
food quality standards, determine the feasibility of fortifying key foods, and assess the viability of social
marketing as a means of distributing micronutrient supplements. The sub-component will be implemented
by the Ministry of Health in partnership with other agencies such as UNICEF.
(b)    Project Support and Institutional Development Component
i.    Project Management and Development Sub-Component: Program Management and Development
activities for the effective implementation of NNP will include: (i) the establishment, within the MOHFW,
of an NNP Program Management Unit (PMU), (ii) an NGO contract management system, (iii) effective
linkages between NNP service delivery and management systems, and those under the Health and
Population Sector Program (HPSP); and (iv) strengthened management capacities of communities and
NGOs.
ii.    Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Component: The Monitoring, Evaluation, and Operations
Research sub-component will: (i) support an efficient project MIS system under the PMU to provide
service delivery and nutritional status data required for management decision-making; (ii) establish an
Independent Quality Assurance Group (IQUAG) for ensuring quality of project service data, conducting
research investigation of extracted service records, executing special studies, and contracting monitoring of
nutrition-related behaviors and social assessments; (iii) contract baseline, mid-term and final evaluations
- 4 -



under the oversight of the IQUAG; and iv) contract project-based operations research. A Technical Support
Unit will oversee monitoring and implementation of learning activities for testing of supplementation
strategies and piloting of CHT and urban slum area interventions.
iii.    Training and Behavioral Change Communications Sub-Component: Training and Behavioral
Change Communications (BCC) will be integrated under NNP, with coordination and management for both
carried out by the PMU through a Communication and Training group, headed by a portfolio manager
under the Coordination and Technical Unit.
Training activities will develop a core group of: (i) nutrition managers; (ii) nutrition experts at the national
level familiar with the realities of field operations; (iii) clinical nutritionists at secondary and tertiary level
hospitals; and (iv) front-line nutrition workers capable of social mobilization, skilled in behavior change
communication, assessment of nutrition situation and analysis of underlying causes, and capable of taking
appropriate action based on such analyses. Operating at the national and field levels, BCC activities will:
(i) foster positive changes in maternal infant and child caring practices; (ii) increase the demand for and the
utilization of available health nutrition and food security services in the community; (iii) help develop the
capacity of the community to assess, analyze and address the malnutrition problem; (iv) strengthen union-
and upazila- level capability to train, supervise and support community workers in their BCC tasks during
project implementation; and v) advocate for policy support to provide and improve nutrition services.
Additional support will be provided by a BCC-Training Advisory Group (see Annex 2 for duties) and
technical BCC and Training networks for nutrition will assist with the review and ongoing refinement of
nutrition-related BCC and Training activities.
Component --                Setr   -       ts       % of    f      . t"
A. Services Component:                                             0.0                  0.0
a. Area-Based Community Nutrition    Population,      71.60       57.5     64.41      70.0
(ABCN) Services                    Health &
Nutrition
Adjustment
b. National Level Nutrition Services    Population,   11.70        9.4      6.44        7.0
Health &
Nutrition
Adjustment
B. Project Support and Institutional                               0.0                  0.0
Development Component:
a. Project Management and          Population,         8.70        7.0      4.51        4.9
Development                        Health &
Nutrition
Adjustment
b. Monitoring and Evaluation       Population,         8.00        6.4      3.22        3.5
Health &
Nutrition
Adjustment
- 5 -



c. Training and Behavior Change   Population,        24.46       19.7     13.42       14.6
Communication                     Health &
Nutrition
Adjustment
Total Project Costs                  124.46     100.0     92.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                  124.46      100.0     92.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
NNP will support policy reforms in accordance with the recommendations of the 1999 Nutrition Sector
Review carried out as part of IDA's sector work. This includes the private-sector provision of
community-based nutrition services, micronutrient fortification, expanded coverage of food-based transfer
programs, and consumption and nutrition aspects of agricultural policies:
*  Targeted investment in the nutrition sector will increase.
*  Private-sector roles will be strengthened through GOB contracting for nutrition services with NGOs
and through the utilization of social marketing channels for the promotion and sale of micronutrient
supplements.
* Micronutrient fortification policy will be developed through systematic exploration of food-based
approaches and feasibility studies for fortification.
*  NNP will re-target food-based income transfer programs, such as Vulnerable Group Development, to
achieve household-level convergence with community nutrition services.
3. Benefits and target population:
There will be more than 5 million children who will participate in the growth monitoring and nutritional
promotion programs, and over 1 million pregnant and lactating women will benefit from weight monitoring
and counseling. Although NNP does not target through "means testing", based on experiences from sirnilar
projects, most beneficiaries will come from the poorest households within the community. In addition, the
entire population will benefit from the interventions of the National-level services component. Project
benefits include:
* Direct nutritional and health benefits to malnourished children and pregnant and lactating women
including steep reductions in severe child malnutrition and deaths, reduction of stunting, increased
numbers of children growing normally, improved pre-pregnancy nutrition status, increased pregnancy
weight gains, lowered incidence of low birthweight, and reduced incidence of cretinism, vitamin A
deficiency, and anemia;
*  Direct future nutritional and health benefits through improved woman and child survival, improved
birthweights, improved child- and self-care practices, increased utilization of preventive and curative
health services, improved mental development through proper iodine nutriture, and reduced population
growth through delayed marriage and contraceptive use; and
*  Indirect benefits including enhanced educational performance (proper iron nutriture in infancy and
childhood), reduced anemia-related matemal mortality (proper iron nutriture during pregnancy),
improved intellectual performance and labor productivity (proper iodine nutriture), and job creation
and elevated women's awareness and status through participation and work in project activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a)    Coordination and oversight
The executive responsibility for the implementation of project activities will lie with a newly-created
Project Management Unit under the MOHFW with adequate authority, high-caliber staffing and flexible
- 6 -



operations. Activities in the community will be implemented through "lead" NGOs under contractual
arrangement with the PMU. Lead NGOs may, in turn, sub-contract with smaller "partner" NGOs for field
implementation, assisting them in capacity building. The PMU will maintain close linkages with the content
and delivery strategy for the HPSP Essential Services Package as described in Annex 2. At the upazila
level and below, linkages will be established through the participation of the MOHFW's designated Upazila
Nutrition Coordinators, Family Welfare Visitors, and Field Workers. The functions of the PMU eventually
will be integrated into the MOHFW.
Communities play an important role in coordination and oversight through "Nutrition Management
Committees" at the village, upazila, and district levels. Each committee will consist of community leaders
(especially women at the village level), local government officials, project staff, and representatives of the
implementing NGOs.
Collaborative arrangements will exist for Behavioral Change Communications materials development and
activities (HPSP Behavioral Communications unit), breastfeeding promotion and protection (Bangladesh
Breastfeeding Foundation), micronutrient fortification (the Institute of Public Health Nutrition and the
Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation), operations research (ICDDR,B), independent
quality assurance for field data (Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, the Institute of Nutrition and Food
Science at Dhaka University, and Helen Keller International), and training (the IPHN and the National
Institute for Population Research and Training, the Institute of Child and Mother Health, and BRAC).
UNICEF will provide important collaboration for BCC, operations research, salt iodization, and general
technical assistance.
(b)    Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements (see Annex 6 for detail)
The PMU will be staffed by adequate numbers of suitably-qualified and experienced staff conversant with
relevant aecounting concepts and IDA regulations, and will gather required information from other
implementing agencies/organizations to prepare consolidated financial statements for the project and
maintain consolidated accounts for all project expenditures. A computerized financial reporting system will
be established which will provide quarterly financial management reports according to a standardized
financial reporting format. Depending upon the computerization process and timeliness of report
generation by the computerized system, a decision will be taken concerning switching over to Project
Monitoring Report (PMR) based disbursement by FY 2002. In the interim period, the PMU will submit
manual reports.
For statutory purposes, the Comptroller and Auditor General, through the Directorate of Audit-
Foreign-Aided Projects, carries out audits of foreign-aided projects. The project financial statements and
Statements of Expenditure will be audited annually in accordance with International Organization of
Supreme Audit Institutions standards, and the audit report will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, two operational audits will be carried out by
independent auditor (C&AG), one prior to mid-term review and the other one prior to NNP closing. IDA
will review the termns of reference of these operational audits. C&AG may hire external auditors to assist
in conducting of operational audits for which project funds can be used.
(c)    Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Monitoring and evaluation under NNP will be coordinated in two ways: project MIS under the Field
Implementation Cell of the PMU, and independent monitoring, with responsibility to coordinate evaluation
surveys and ensure comparability, under an independent monitoring function. Project MIS will operate
similarly to the BINP monitoring system, which reports monthly a set of key operational indicators of
service delivery performance and nutritional status. The IQUAG, led by the Bangladesh Bureau of
- 7 -



Statistics and associated with the Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, Dhaka University and Helen
Keller International, will conduct (i) routine quality assessments to ensure accuracy of project MIS data,
(ii) research studies of extracted MIS field records, (iii) independent nutritional surveillance (funded
separately by USAID), and (iv) special studies as needed. The IQUAG will contract ongoing monitoring
studies of nutrition-related behaviors and social assessments.
The project will be evaluated through a combination of: (i) baseline surveys as the project expands, (ii)
monitoring of activities, outputs, and outcomes during implementation, and (iii) follow-up surveys. Formal
evaluations will be conducted during the mid-term review and at the end of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Implementation of a narrower range of community nutrition interventions as a sub-component of the
Essential Services Package delivered in the context of the MOHFW's HPSP. Given the magnitude of the
malnutrition problem in Bangladesh, this alternative did not offer adequate impact and could not adequately
support the required convergence of core nutrition services with household food security interventions, nor
ensure adequate attention to required high-impact national-level nutrition interventions. In view of the
successful implementation experience with BINP, basic design pararneters of the community nutrition
services under BINP are retained under NNP.
Limiting community-based nutrition services to rural areas. The more complex institutional framework
and the absence of geographically-circumscribed "communities" in urban areas will make the
implementation of community-based nutrition services there more difficult. The alternative of not including
urban areas nevertheless was rejected because by the year 2010 half of the population is expected to live in
urban areas, where about 50 percent of the population are poor and the nutrition and health status of
children living in urban slums has been shown to be worse than that of rural children.
Limiting micronutrient interventions to area-based services only. This alternative was rejected because it
is essential that micronutrient malnutrition is addressed from a national level to ensure the entire population
is covered. In addition, there are economies of scale realized through bulk procurement.
Addressing majorfood security issues (e.g. production policies, import policies, price controls) under
NWP. This alternative was rejected in order to keep the project focused on direct benefits to vulnerable
groups that are within the mandate of the MOHFW. Locally-managed household food security
interventions directly benefiting the poor will be part of the area-based nutrition component of NNP, but no
centrally-managed food security activities are planned. It is expected rather that such interventions will be
undertaken directly by appropriate line ministries in response to the actions recommended by the ongoing
food security sector work under the RD Section and agreed recommendations of the 1999 Nutrition Sector
Review.
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) Financing. In view of the scope of malnutrition in Bangladesh, and the
long-terrn commitment needed to eliminate it, serious consideration was given to implementation of a single
program financed by an APL. This option was rejected because implementation through a series of
discrete projects will allow each phased project to plan expansion according to developing management
capacity.
-8 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 1 (P$R) Ratings
.___ ___ ___ ____ __  ._ _: _ _._ _ ._ _ (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Completed
Primary Health Care/Population  Population and Health IV         S            S
Control                         (FPHP)
2. Ongoing
Maternal and Child Malnutrition  BINP                           S             S
Primary Health Care/Population  Health and Pop Program          U             S
Control                         Project
Other development agencies
1. Completed
Food and Nutrition Policy Development UNDP/FAO National Plan of
Action for Nutrition Support
ADB/UNICEF Regional
Technical Assistance for
Nutrition Policy
2. Ongoing
Maternal and Child Malnutrition  UNICEF community Nutr.
Micronutrient Deficiency Control  Program
UNICEF Nutr. Blindness
Prevention (with IPH1N) and
Control of Iodine Defic.
Disorders (with BSCIC)
Programs
Micronutrient Initiative
Technical Support Projects
USAID MOST Food
Fortification Project
Nutrition Capacity building      USAID-supported HKI
Nutritional
Surveillance and IFPRI Food
Mg't and Research Support
Project
Household Food Security          WFP & bilateral donors:
Vulnerable Group Development
Programme
FAO Community-based
self-help farmers groups
-9-



UNDP & ADB/FAO
Horticulture Res &
Development for Fruit,
Vegetable and Spice Crop
Cultivation
Belgium & Denrnark/FAO
Private-sector participation in
Vegetable Seed
Production and Distribution
3. Planned                        UNDP/FAO Integrated
Horticulture and Nutrition
Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
NNP will build on the design and satisfactory performance of BINP, which was in turn based on
experience from other countries, including India (Tainil Nadu), Indonesia, Guinea-Bissau and Colombia.
Lessons learned in this manner that are reflected in the proposed project design include:
- Universal growth monitoring and promotion of young children, along with supplementary feeding, is
feasible in a large-scale program and significantly reduces severe child malnutrition within a short
period of time.
-   Locally selected female part-time workers, supervised by an all-female supervisory staff, can
substantially improve children's and maternal nutrition status if properly trained and supported.
*   Village women can reliably manage the preparation and distribution of a nutritionally complete,
hygienically prepared, low-cost supplement, using locally available ingredients.
-   Community ownership of nutrition services can be generated through a carefully executed social
mobilization process that empowers local communities to take effective action on their malnutrition
problems.
*   The unique GOB-NGO partnership model for BINP community-based nutrition services showed
services delivered through such partnerships to be highly effective, efficient and responsive to local
communities. For the larger number of NGO partners required for the scope of NNP (and later
projects) implementation, the project will institute NGO capacity-building on an NGO-to-NGO basis.
*   The contracting process for GOB-NGO partnerships proved to be a major bottleneck to BINP
expansion. NNP will circumvent this problem by contracting "packages" of working areas for lead
NGOs, allowing a single contract for each over the duration of the project.
*   Lead time is required for training selected NGOs on BCC interventions. NNP accordingly has planned
for less disbursement during Year 1.
*   Ad-hoc strengthening of ongoing national micronutrient interventions is inadequate to the technical
character and magnitude of micronutrient deficiency problems in Bangladesh. This approach will be
replaced by incorporating financing for nation-wide supplement procurement and new fortification
initiatives.
*   Targeting of household food security interventions, based on combined criteria of household food
insecurity and nutrition vulnerability, will address the poverty-related underlying causes of
malnutrition.
- 10-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Nutrition enjoys strong support from the current Government; the Prime Minister has made her
Government's vision for malnutrition reduction one of the major topics of development policy dialogue with
the World Bank. Actions on nutrition taken by the current Government include the approval of the
National Food and Nutrition Policy, the development and approval of the National Plan of Action on
Nutrition, re-activation of the Bangladesh National Nutrition Council, the reflection of nutrition in the
GOB's current Fifth Plan, and inauguration of the annual National Nutrition Week. The GOB also
requested and obtained World Bank clearance for expanding BINP coverage to 20 additional thanas.
Preparation of the MOHFW's NNP Concept Paper, on which the proposed project is based, was led by the
MOHFW and involved a broad-based participatory process executed by several Working Groups
constituted by the MOHFW. From August 1998, preparation of the NNP by the GOB was carried out by
a full-time MOHFW Project Preparation Team, reporting to a Steering Committee chaired by the
Secretary, MOHFW. The MOHFW also has committed to designate staff, before NNP negotiation, for a
high-caliber NNP Project Management Unit with adequate authority for effective implementation of NNP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Identification, preparation and appraisal of NNP have benefited from extensive technical support and
analytical work from the World Bank and UNICEF. This includes: (i) a 1999 Nutrition Sector
Review to identify gaps in ongoing sectoral activities and key issues for nutrition policy reform; (ii)
operational support and technical guidance to several consultant studies undertaken for NNP
preparation, and (iii) sectoral specialist technical assistance by World Bank and UNICEF staff and
consultants.
* Based on their large-scale operational involvement and institutional strength in the nutrition sector, the
World Bank and UNICEF are able to assist Bangladesh to access international experience and "best
practices" from other major nutrition projects.
= The GOB would neither be able to finance a program as large as the National Nutrition Program on its
own, nor would any other donor be able to assist GOB on the necessary scale. The World Bank has,
moreover, already expressed its readiness to assist GOB with the coordination of donor and domestic
fimding for NNP.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Demand, economic evaluation, detailed costing, cost simulations, and flow of funds analysis.
Justification: The role of the government was analyzed using standard public finance criteria. Public
investments in some interventions, especially those related to information dissemination and community
mobilization, are justified on the basis of a public good that would not otherwise be provided by the market.
Other investments, such as food supplementation, are primarily private goods but address market failures
resulting from asymmetric information and a low demand due to poverty. There is evidence (McGuire
1996) of quantifiable externalities to nutrition interventions. The nature of the interventions financed by
this project will lead to targeting of resources at the most vulnerable segments of society, and interventions
targeted at pregnant women help improve gender specific health outcomes in Bangladesh. Moreover, these
interventions help break the vicious cycle of anemic and malnourished mothers giving birth to stunted and
- 11 -



weakened children. It is important to note that while the role of the government is justified for financing the
interventions, market analysis, capacity and sustainability concerns indicated that contracting out service
delivery is preferable to direct public provision.
Economic Evaluation: The starting point for economic evaluations was an independent assessment of the
real costs of community-based activities under the pilot project (BINP). It was important to learn from the
pilot in designing the expansion of community-based activities countrywide and for adding activities under
the same delivery strategy. A survey of five of the first six pilot upazilas, using random samples within
each upazila, collected real cost information including community-donated contributions. Findings from
this exercise provided the basis for cost-minimization analysis and the development of simulation models
for national expansion of conmmunity-based activities, both informing NNP design. Even though NNP is
only one stage in national expansion of community-based activities, the basic design will continue for the
national program. Cost simulations enabled better understanding of the long-term financial implications to
the program and communities (see financial analysis).
The use of cost data in simulation exercises led to design changes relating to the size of NNP, the phasing
strategy for new upazilas, the creation of an exit strategy for relatively expensive community-based
interventions, changes in food supplementation strategy, and options in operational research strategies.
Equity: While many investments in the health sector tend to favor the better-off, nutrition interventions,
especially community-based services, are highly targeted at the poor; nutritionally-based targeting favors
poorer households , which are more likely to suffer from malnutrition. NNP agro-based food security
interventions directly focus service delivery on poorer households based on land-ownership and income
criteria. The VGD/NNP linkage further targets only the poorest of the poor households.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project preparation was informed by an assessment of the flow of funds for nutrition for Bangladesh
(including donor assistance) and an analysis of the long-term financial implications to country-wide
expansion of community-based nutrition services. An assessment of the capacity for financial monitoring
and management provided the information needed to design and identify staffing needs for a fmancial
management system.
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal Impact: Due to the nature of the largest component of the proposed project, nationwide expansion
of community-based services, a careful assessment of the fiscal impact beyond the life of the project was
undertaken. There are long-term fiscal legacy implications of expansion of services. By the fourth year of
NNP, only 30 percent of eligible rural upazilas will receive community-based services, but design decisions
will carry forward to the following phases of the national program. Using lessons leamed from BlNP, two
design issues were addressed:
i)     Using a cost-simulation model, different strategies were compared to determine the orders of
magnitude and frequency for a set of activities. The main conclusion was to reduce the duration of food
supplementation for lactating women (from 6 months to 2 months);
ii)    Given the poverty-group targeting, it is not realistic to expect cost-recovery or community sharing
to play a large role in financing. Cost studies of the pilot show that the community can share up to eight
percent of the cost of the project, mostly through in-kind contributions. An assessment under BINP of
- 12 -



beneficiary costs and willingness to pay found a low opportunity cost for the beneficiaries and clear
satisfaction with the quality of services, but, with the exception of services for growth faltering children, a
limited willingness and ability to pay for services. This low willingness and ability to pay, along with
limited capacity to manage cost-recovery arrangements at the village level, restrict NNP community
sharing and cost-recovery to in-kind arrangements that allow for re-distribution and increase community
ownership.
Another fiscal issue of concern is the ability of the sector to absorb new spending given the experience of
the slow start-up of the pilot The BINP management assessment addressed most of the implementation
bottlenecks associated with the pilot, including slow disbursements, and proposed capacity irnprovements
that will streamline contracting with NGOs for service delivery. The planned Project Management Unit,
which will be mainstreamed into the MOHFW following a review after three years of implementation,
adopts the recommendations of the BINP management assessment, such as organization into functional
cells and enlistment of personnel recruited from the open market at market rates, and thus is expected to
perform more efficiently than has the BINP Project Office. Additionally, a moderate rate of expansion
under NNP, similar to that achieved under the BINP pilot, will allow management capacity development
among GOB and NGO implementers in anticipation of more ambitious expansion under later projects.
Incrementality: Since funds are fungible, it is important to ensure that IDA funds do not substitute for
GOB funds allocated for nutrition. The flow-of-funds analysis establishes a baseline for current spending
practices by the government and all bilateral and multilateral partners and allows future project supervision
to determine if GOB funds for nutrition continue to increase over the life of the project. Vulnerability of
GOB nutrition spending to budget cuts represents a source of concern since, unlike other health services,
almost all (98 percent) nutrition spending originates from the development budget.
3. Technical:
Community-based nutrition projects, like the Bank-fnanced Tamil Nadu Integrated Project and BINP, have
proven conclusively that rapid and large reductions in severe child malnutrition are possible on a large
scale. Given the high prevalence of severe malnutrition in Bangladesh, the success of BINP alone provides
sufficient justification to undertake a national program. However, substantial reductions in moderate
protein-energy malnutrition in children and low birthweight have not yet been achieved in any large-scale
program. For this reason, a "learning by doing" approach will be at the core of NNP. Operations research
to achieve effective reductions in moderate child malnutrition and low birthweight already has been initiated
under the Operations Research (OR) sub-project of BINP and will be addressed on the basis of further OR
under NNP. Four upazilas will test alternative strategies for addressing moderate malnutrition, low
birthweight, and other sustainability issues.
Technical features of the community-based nutrition services under NNP will be largely based on BINP
project practices, which compare well with the best nutrition projects worldwide. However, as mentioned
above, no large-scale nutrition program has achieved conclusive success in reducing moderate malnutrition
among children or in increasing birthweight, and the substantial expenditures required for food
supplementation, especially for women, represent a possible constraint for nation-wide expansion of the
BINP model. Leaming activities under NNP will explore alternative strategies for addressing moderate
malnutrition and low birthweight, including focus on nutritional status of adolescent girls to improve
pre-pregnancy nutritional status, and a shorter feeding regimen for women (8 weeks post-partum instead of
6 months as practiced under BINP) will minimize food expenditures.
Technical issues for micronutrient deficiency control arise because of the need to provide a more balanced
food supplement. An OR project under BINP has determined a suitable method for village-level
- 13 -



fortification, and logistical considerations for fortificant procurement, women's group training, ensuring
food safety, and packaging being pilot tested under BINP. NNP also will systematically explore new
possibilities for fortification of staple foods at the national level and feasibility of private sector
involvement in mnicronutrient supplement provision.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
NNP will be administered by the MOHFW, a ministry of the GOB currently undergoing major reform as
part of the Bank-assisted HPSP. The MOHFW provides health and family planning services through a
large bureaucracy. The MOHFW, through HPSP has taken significant steps to reduce redundancy, but the
addition of an NNP Project Management Unit at the present time, during the early phases of HPSP, would
sidetrack the widespread reforms underway and overwhelm Line Director management capacity. The NNP
PMU thus will be situated within the MOHFW yet independent and possessing sufficient authority to
achieve effective and flexible project management.
Field implementation of NNP will be conducted by NGOs, both large and small, with experience in health
and/or nutrition, and capacity for at least upazila-wide coverage. Bangladesh is unique in possessing a
wealth of capable NGOs with proven success in community organization and mobilization, and
health/nutrition service delivery. The successful GOB-NGO partnership model refined under BINP will
continue for NNP, but the eventual scope of nation-wide implementation will exceed the capacity of even
the largest NGOs. The PMU will contract large NGOs to enlist smaller NGOs, pre-selected by the PMU,
to conduct field activities. This arrangement will ensure community involvement and effective field
implementation, and will free the GOB from the need for a new cadre of field workers.
Iodized salt activities will require increased emphasis on monitoring of salt iodization and cooperation from
private industry in the adaptation of new technologies (for crude salt production and reducing moisture in
refined salt) and in sharing potassiumn iodate costs. The MOHFW has agreed that UNICEF will provide the
necessary inputs for these activities, and has stated this in the NNP PIP, but adequate resource allocation,
both human and physical, by UNICEF will be essential for achieving NNP goals to reduce iodine
deficiency disorders through salt iodization.
b. Project management:
The NNP Project Management Unit will, as mentioned above, be situated within the MOHFW. The PMU
will possess sufficient authority, with an Executive Director at the Additional Secretary level, for flexible
and timely decision-making, and the bulk of PMU staff will be hired from the market at market rates.
Financial authority to the maximum extent possible will be delegated to PMU. A separate cell will exist
within the PMU for executing NGO contracts. To streamline project expansion, contracts will be awarded
in "packages" of working areas for the duration of the project. Annex 2 further describes the management
functions of the PMU.
NNP will finance small sub-project management units in the Departnent of Agricultural Extension,
Ministry of Women and Children's Affairs, and in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries to plan and
budget, monitor and supervise food security activities implemented by NGO partners. Tripartite contracts
between NNP, the concerned Ministry, and the implementing NGO will ensure accountability by all
counterparts.
- 14 -



5. Social:
During preparation of NNP, a number of social assessments were carried out in close consultation with
communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders. Based on these assessments several socio-cultural, economic
and structural factors were identified as contributing factors of malnutrition. These included taboos,
prejudices and traditional values that interact with and reinforce each other. In addition, it was determined
that detrimental traditional diet patterns, and cooking and food allocation practices stemming from
unquestioned acceptance of traditional values, norms, practices and customs often restrict nutritious foods
for pregnant and breastfeeding women and adolescent girls. In the same way, social beliefs underlie many
detrimental caring practices for children that lead to malnutrition, e.g., feeding newborns pre-lacteal honey
or sugar water and other inappropriate food other than colostrum and breast milk, and not giving solid food
till the children are a one-year-old.
Based on the knowledge and lessons learned from the social assessments and experiences from BINP,
NNP will focus intense individual counseling to address the social constraints to better nutrition among
women. For example, field staff will routinely advise pregnant and lactating women on appropriate,
affordable foods, especially those high in energy and micronutrients. Monthly weight monitoring for
pregnant women, coupled with counseling on the nutritional needs of pregnancy, will concentrate attention
on weight gain and the dietary and energy expenditure changes necessary to achieve it; and counseling
during lactation will encourage appropriate dietary practices to avoid the nutritional depletion commonly
experienced during lactation.
Similarly, intensive counseling for mothers will help overcome the social factors and beliefs underlying the
practices leading to child malnutrition. During pregnancy mothers will leam that colostrum is the
appropriate food for a healthy newborn, and they will receive routine counseling on the importance of
exclusive breastfeeding and the introduction of complementary food at 6 months. Additionally, the food
supplement for children demonstrates the beneficial effects of feeding a small, affordable amount of solid
food and thus serves as an educational tool to reinforce counseling for timely introduction of
complementary food.
Gender Bias: Generally, male domination and female subordination are the basic tenets of social order in
Bangladesh. Unequal familial allocation of food and other resources (including care/attention) are
significant ways to accustom young girls to acquire patience, passivity and self sacrifice, which are deemed
by their parents to be essential for their future role as house manager and mother. Gender-bias in the
policy and implementation of health and population sector activities is reflected in the way that most female
field workers focus exclusively on women, and are reluctant to address mixed gatherings. Furthermore,
the relevant messages about health, nutrition and family planning are targeted nearly exclusively to women,
so men usually do not receive them. This gender bias is identified as a major weakness in the IEC and
motivation campaign on health, family planning and nutrition. Such pattern of gender-segregated
communication reflects the desire not to stir up the hostility of reactionary male traditionalist groups,
especially in the rural areas.
NNP takes steps toward addressing these gender biases through activities that bring women out of their
homes to monthly educational meetings with their peers, and through the prominent role of the Community
Nutrition Promoter (the "Pushti Appa", or "Nutrition Sister", as she is referred to by the communities in
BINP). Furthermore, men's involvement in village nutrition management committees and, in some cases,"
husband's groups" extends the value of BINP counseling by sharing it with men, who in most cases control
household food purchases.
- 15 -



Nonetheless, in the different components as described by the PIP, women still remain the major focus of
attaining the nutrition goal, creating the impression that women bear the primary responsibility for
achieving it, even though men usually are the main decision-makers in the household. The Project needs
special measures to induce men to share equal responsibility for attaining nutrition security for the family,
e.g., participation in all nutrition related activities, especially in awareness/BCC and social mobilization.
NNP BCC activities also will focus on fostering partnership between women and men, and family and
community, to increase ownership over nutritional solvency within the community. Community ownership
is essential to reduce the gap between knowledge and practice of food habit resulting from existing
superstitions and taboos, lack of interest in following nutritional guidelines and gender-based
discrimination.
Tribal Strategy: Bangladesh has a tribal population of 1.2 million (1% of the population) consisting of 22
tribal groups, each having their own language, culture and tradition. About 40 percent of the tribal
population resides in the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT); and others live mostly in the hilly areas in the
north. The recent agreement between the GOB and CHT tribal groups to end the long-standing insurgency
makes it possible for NNP to cover this area. The GOB, with UNICEF support, has begun a social
development program to provide primary education and health care services through trained tribal
community workers. Social assessment was carried out in CHT to identify needs and constraints for the
tribal group in accessing health and nutrition services and develop tribal strategies for implementation,
identifying access and a language barrier as critical issues. NNP will pilot test an implementation model
utilizing additional numbers of centers in partnership with the ongoing GOB-UNICEF project, improved
infrastructure, and additional tribal community workers and providers. Issues relating to the lower literacy
and awareness, and poor health conditions of tribal groups will be addressed through need-based enhanced
training, provision of culturally-relevant educational materials, and attention to local health needs.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C
No detrimental environmental impacts are expected to occur during the proposed project. Higher ages at
childbearing and practice of contraception, both of which will be advocated for by the behavior change
communications sub-component of NNP, should contribute to lower population growth and thus benefit the
environment. The hygiene and sanitation lessons provided to beneficiaries will promote the use of
improved sanitary latrines and safe water supply, also resulting in environmental benefits. Intersectoral
linkages to sanitation programs planned for later NNP projects will further multiply these benefits.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Given the significant role of BCC in NNP and its importance in reducing malnutrition, it is essential that
there is a strong participatory approach in implementation. The project design includes activities which
will be carried out directly by the local community. The community will be involved in evaluating and
monitoring activities and provide essential feedback to ensure that the project is having the desired impact.
For the core nutrition services, primary beneficiaries will be children under two years of age, pregnant and
breast-feeding women, and adolescent girls. Primary beneficiaries for the household food security
interventions will be food insecure households having a couple where the wife is a member of the core
nutrition services target group, and reproductive age women with under two children. For the
communications interventions, primary beneficiaries will be the population as a whole. The beneficiaries of
micronutrient interventions will include: (i) children under the age of six and postpartum women (vitamin
- 16 -



A capsule procurement, and distribution to women); (ii) pregnant/lactating girls/women and non-married
adolescent girls (iron/folate supplement procurement and distribution); and (iii) the entire population (salt
iodization). Participatory process and stakeholder analysis were conducted to get feedback from different
stakeholders groups and identify participatory strategies for implementation.
NNP has benefited from the social assessments carried out during the development of BINP and NNP. The
BINP design also incorporated the findings of a series of studies on community acceptance of services,
social and physical infrastructure for service delivery, and community involvement in food supplement
preparation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other identified key stakeholders for NNP are service providers for the community-based nutrition services
and related health and family planning services, officials from ministries and departments concemed with
the food security activities, NGOs, women's organizations, professional associations, civic groups
(including scouts and girl guides), local community leaders, religious leaders, the media, and the donor
community. In addition to their involvement in the BINP design process, these groups have been active in
project preparation through numerous discussions conducted by the NNP Project Preparation Team and
through numerous workshops for developing consensus on GOB and NGO roles and involvement.
Importantly, early national-level consultations included stakeholder participation in a MOHFW Technical
Conmmittee, presided over by the MOHFW Secretary, for preparation of the Concept Paper for NNP, and
in a series of LogFrame workshops, held in conjunction with the NNP Identification Mission, which
afforded an opportunity to directly influence the design of the proposed project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*   Sustainable Political Commitment: Intemational experience has shown that, where malnutrition rates
are very high, a sustainable impact on protein-energy malnutrition requires commitment to intense
program activity for a period of 8-10 years. Political commitment to a National Nutrition Program
thus will be necessary for at least eight years after reaching full national coverage, or a total of twenty
years from the initiation of NNP, assuming national coverage is achieved by the end of NNPII
(expected for 2008-2012). Based on the success of BINP the present government's conmnitmnent to
reducing malnutrition is high. Also, due to the political popularity of this type of intervention and its
focus on the poor, it is likely that any future government will be equally supportive.
*   Managerial Sustainability: Given the current absorptive capacity of the MOH, a separate Project
Management Unit is necessary for the medium tenn. However, the functions and responsibilities of the
PMU will be fully integrated into MOHFW as soon as capacity allows, which is expected to take about
three years. Additionally, the project will (i) adopt the agreed GOB-NGO contract system for service
delivery that a) combines the government's ability to mobilize resources with NGOs' ability to mobilize
communities, and b) eliminates the need for GOB to install a new cadre of permanent field workers; (ii)
create effective linkages and coordination at the national level between NNP service delivery and
management systems with those under HPSP; and (iii) strengthen capacities of communities, NGOs
and local government units to progressively take over management responsibilities and ownership
essential for project sustainability.
*   Institutional Sustainability: As the phased NNP projects develop, it is expected that institutional
arrangements will evolve. Possible institutional arrangements that may emerge include (i) progressive
integration, while maintaining strong nutrition identity, into the integrated management arrangements of
Health and Family Welfare system, and (ii) contracting of a flexible, semi-autonomous body, linked to
- 17-



the MOHFW, to coordinate area-based activities and perhaps attract a broader range of project
financiers.
*   Ownership and Sustainability of Benefits: Since NNP interventions will be time-bound, sustainability
of benefits will depend importantly on the communities' understanding of their nutrition problems, their
ability to articulate their demands for project assistance, and their involvement in appropriate action for
improvement. As in BINP, activities will be directed at improving capacity for community assessment,
analysis and action, building on interest created and fostered at the community and household levels.
Additionally, activities initiated by CNPs in rural Bangladesh will provide a unique opportunity for
women to interact on a broad array of social issues at the village level. Moreover, since CNPs are
drawn from the community, they are more likely to continue to provide an active locus of social
mobilization beyond the project period.
*   Financial Sustainability: Because NNP intervention is highly focused on the poor, total cost-recovery
from community-based services is limited. Thus, longer-term financial sustainability may only be
achieved if the community takes on more direct responsibilities for operating and management of
activities by providing "in kind" services. However, Govemment will still need to commit itself to
incorporating core nutrition services into its primary health care system. The community mobilization
efforts of NGOs, along with the GOB's stated plans for decentralization, provide concrete steps for
placing management of later NNP projects into community hands.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Ri      0  f0  sk 0  :  ; f70 t RiskWt R t   0 d Risk Mini*mizatin Measura  it  n--
From Outputs to Objective
National/Global
Political instability during the next       S        Maintaining close linkages with communities
18-month election period may delay                   and NGO stakeholders to ensure support.
project implementation.
IDA funds may substitute for, rather than  N         Flow-of-funds analysis completed to establish
supplement, GOB spending for nutrition.              current GOB and donor spending as baseline for
comparison.
Operational
Community-based and managed nutrition      M         Separate contract management unit in PMU,
services may not be expanded as                      working with independent contracting agency,
scheduled.                                           having sufficient authority.
Referral and other linkages with health     S        Functional linkages at national and field levels
services for treating severely                       with HPSP ESP; pilot testing of referral
malnourished children may not be                     schemes in BINP; incorporation of referral
sufficient.                                          services; procurement of necessary protocol.
Local level food security activities may   M         VNMC selection of target beneficiaries through
fail to reach the intended target                    transparent processes and simple and effective
beneficiaries.                                       monitoring; NGO participation.
GOB salary and recruitment system may       H        PMU created and staff designated prior to
impede hiring of PMU staff with required             negotiations; augmented by competent
capabilities.                                        consultants.
Concurrent finctioning of the BINP         M          Steps taken during the NNP appraisal mission
Project Office and the NNP PMU may                   have increased BINP PMO involvement in and
lead to conflict and hamper                           contribution to NNP planning and
implementation.                                      implementation scheduling.
- 18 -



Sectoral human resources development        M         NNP planning and implementation scheduling.
plan may not be effective due to selection            Institutions hired on contractual basis with
of weak training institutions and lack of             provision for functional capacity building
coordination among training insitutitions.            among selected institutions; rigorous
perfornance evaluation.
Technical
The project's operations research           H         Operations research is being carried out to
component may not generate                            develop strategies for reducing moderate
programmatically feasible solutions to                malnutrition under BINP, and will be continued
moderate malnutrition among children.                 under NNP; learning component activities under
NNP will field-test alternative supplementation
strategies targeting moderate malnutrition.
Income generated by the activities may in   M         Contracting of NGOs with proven success in
some cases be inadequate to fully address             food security activities; VGD linkage for the
food security constraints.                            poorest of the poor.
Linkages to water and sanitation activities  M        Coordination, through UNICEF, of access to a
may not function adequately, resulting in             variety of GOB services including Water and
failture to control this cause of                     Sanitation
malnutrition
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                         s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social: Although many NNP activities encourage new social patterns for women and girls (monthly
meetings; travel outside the home for newly married girls/women; discussion about reproductive health;
encouragement to delay marriage through adolescent forums), results from BINP show that NGO attention
to community mobilization has minimized and, in nearly all cases, eliminated any controversy resulting
from them. NNP will employ the same risk minimization strategy.
Management: The NNP PMU, in order to effectively manage such a large-scale project, requires high
caliber staff who make frequent visits to observe field activities. To recruit staff with requisite skills, the
PMU will offer market-rate salaries and recruit from the open market. The inequality of salaries offered at
the PMU and other government positions, and the hiring of personnel from outside the government may be
controversial but can be minimized by only recruiting staff who have essential skills.
Governance: There is a risk that such large food-supplementing programs could be abused. NNP will
have in place key indicators and monitoring systems to ensure this does not happen.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None (other than standard)
Negotiation Conditions
- 19-






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Key 06omac
-     - :i:              Gyfn~~~~~ilica  -.                                            .
Hwchy QI Qbjvct  i                   caor   -- _Monitorlng & EvaIuation ;iM pas ,
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:            Sector! country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promoting faster and more
equitable human development on
the basis of a long-term vision of
education, health and nutrition,
and population and by
coordinating donor and domestic
funding to help attain that vision
e
Project Development          Outcome / Impact             Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Sustainable improvements in    Impact Indicators          Combination of-                Improved nutrition alone will
birthweights and in nutrition  1. Severe protein-energy     National-level and         be sufficient for greater
status of vulnerable groups will  malnutrition in children <2  project-area-specific nutrition    productivity, better health and
have been achieved through   reduced to 5%                surveys.                     better educational performance.-
adoption of new behaviors and   2. Moderate protein-energy  Survey-based Independent   The economy will be capable of
through appropriate use by   malnutrition in children <2  monitoring and evaluation    absorbing increased productivity
individuals and households of   reduced to 30%            (baseline and follow-up).    for development gains.- Increases
nutrition services that are  3. Weight gain during pregnancy   Special studies.        in children's active learning
increasingly managed by local   increased to 9 kg in 50% of                            capacity resulting from improved
communities.                 pregnant women                                            nutrition will be matched by the
4. Incidence of low birth weight                          perfornance of the education
(<2500g) reduced to                                       system.
30 %                                                      ' Shortcomings in overall health
5. Prevalence of anemia among                             status and care will not
adolescent girls and pregnant                             overwhelm improvements
women reduced by 1/3.                                     resulting from improved
National-level impact                                     nutrition.
indicator
6. Prevalence of night blindness
among children age I to < 5 years
sustained at 0.5%.7.
Prevalence of iodine deficiency
(urinary iodine excretion < 30
g/dl) reduced to 50%.
Population-based intermediate
impact/behavioral indicators:
Individuals and households:
1. 25 % of all infants are
exclusively breastfed for first 6
months.
2. Appropriate (quantity/
quality/frequency) complementary
feeding initiated for 75% of all
infants by 6 months of age and
maintained until age 2
3. 95% of children in NNP-I areas
age 12-59 months have received
VAC within last six months.
- 21 -



4. 90% of newly delivered
women receive post-partum VAC
5. Food consumption by women
and children in households
increasing income by 10% due to
household food security
interventions increased by 50%.
Communities and local
Governments:
6.90% of VNMC in NNP-1
project areas are appropriately
targeting household food security
interventions.
7. 50% of communities monitor
the coverage and quality of
ABCN services in their area
under clear terms of reference for
Nutrition Management
Committees and with the help of
a set of simple monitoring
indicators.
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Details in Project
Implementation Plan and
Project Files
Project Components I          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                  Outputs)
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
The National Nutrition Project (NNP) is the first phase of a national expansion of the community nutrition
services model successfully implemented under the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project (BINP). During
NNP up to 139 upazilas (including 2 urban areas), representing 30 percent of the rural population of the
country, will receive NGO- provided community-based nutritional services. In addition to the expansion of
the community level services, national activities financed by the project include behavior change
communication interventions and micro-nutrient supplementation. The project will total US$124.46 million
and will be financed by the Government of Bangladesh, IDA, Canadian CIDA, and the Netherlands. The
Project has two components: a Service Component and a Project Support and Institutional Development
Component.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$83.30 million
I. Service Component
A. Area-Based Community Nutrition (ABCN) Sub-Component (US$ 71.60 million)
The Service Component provides nutritional services of two types: community-based services for
individuals to combat malnutrition among population groups at highest risk, and centrally-administered
services addressing nutritional problems most effectively dealt with through public health measures.
Community-based services are provided under the Area-Based Community Nutrition Sub-Component;
Centrally-administered public health measures for nutrition are provided under the National-Level Nutrition
Services Sub-Component.
1. Overview
The overall purpose of the ABCN under NNP is to develop and strengthen communities capacity to assess
and analyze the causes of their malnutrition problems and to make better use of family, community and
external resources to improve the nutritional status of vulnerable groups. Behavioral change, motivated
through individual counseling for mothers linked to growth monitoring and demonstrative supplementary
feeding for their children, and supplementary feeding for themselves if they are malnourished, is the key to
developing individual and, by extension, community capacity to combat nutrition.
This sub-component will involve a core community nutrition services package, similar to the BINP
Community-based Nutrition Component (with enhanced attention to tiicronutrient supplementation and
referral of severely malnourished children, and addition of a focus on female adolescents) under which
part-time female community nutrition promoters, from a community-managed nutrition center provided by
a local individual, will: (i) perform monthly growth monitoring for children younger than two years, (ii)
provide to mothers nutrition education and individual counseling concerning healthy child growth and
development, (iii) provide to mothers individual counseling for self-care, well-being, and healthy
foetus/babies, and (iv) furnish growth faltering and severely malnourished children with demonstrative
supplementary food prepared by community women's groups. Malnourished pregnant and lactating mothers
also will receive daily food supplementation from the time they are identified as pregnant through eight
weeks after delivery.
In areas which have demonstrated capacity with the core ABCN package, food insecure households with a
reproductive age woman will be enabled to access a community-determined package of household food
- 23 -



security interventions. These will include but not be limited to; i) nutrition gardening supported by
micro-credit, ii) poultry supported by micro-credit, and iii) in later projects, fish ponds supported by
micro-credit. Similarly, in areas where there are ongoing, well-implemented food security interventions yet
community-based nutrition services are lacking, ABCN will be introduced against the backdrop of and the
ongoing food security intervention with the addition of referral services to the VGD program.
a. Building on the lessons of BINP
ABCN services will build on the experience of BINP, which has been providing highly targeted services to
children under two years of age and pregnant and lactating women, with particular attention to caring
practices and behavioral change. Recognizing that malnutrition results from a combination of household
food insecurity, inadequate caring practices and health problems, NNP will, like BINP, address household
food insecurity in nutritionally vulnerable households through poultry rearing and nutrition gardening, with
the important addition of linkage to the GOB's WFP-assisted Vulnerable Group Development Program for
"ultra-poor" households unable to participate in other food security activities.
While both BINP and NNP adopt a community-based approach, NNP offers an expanded package of
services, selected and managed in a different way from the Community-based Nutrition Component
(CBNC) under BINP.
b. Similarities between NNP ABCN services and BINP CBNC
  Use of a Community Nutrition Promoter and Community Nutrition Centers;
*  Emphasis on child growth and pregnancy weight gain monitoring and promotion, interpersonal
counseling and demonstrative targeted supplementation as the core package of services;
*  Benefit from NGO support in recruiting, supervising and training workers, managing logistics, the
preparation of food supplements, and in monitoring; and
*  Involvement of local conununities through the formation of women's groups, and through village and
union nutrition management committees.
c. Differences between NNP ABCN and CBNC
*  The core community nutrition services package within ABNC services, as explained in detail below,
will include micronutrient supplementation for all NNP target groups as well as nutrition counseling
for adolescent girls through adolescent forums.
*  The food supplement for women and children will include micronutrients.
*  In areas without established food security programs, communities will only be allowed to "graduate" to
a more complex package of services including food security interventions, once they have demonstrated
success with implementing the core package.
*  The choice of food security activities will be driven by community demand, based on local needs and
priorities, rather than supply-driven, by national ministries, based on the amount of funds they have
available.
*  In addition the food security activities extended under BINP (Poultry for Nutrition, Nutrition
Gardening, and women's Groups earning income preparing project food supplements), NNP will also
enable reproductive-age women from "ultra-poor" households to access food-based income transfers
and skill development under the World Food Program-assisted Vulnerable Group Development (VGD)
Program.
*  NNP will finance the upgrading of health services capabilities for the management of severely
malnourished children requiring referral for protocolized care.
2. Core Community Nutrition Services
-24 -



The target groups for core community nutrition services provided under NNP will be nutritionally
vulnerable groups children under two, adolescent girls, and pregnant and lactating women. Core community
nutrition services are designed to reduce severe and moderate protein-energy malnutrition in children under
two, to improve pre-pregnancy weights and pregnancy weight gains, thereby reducing the incidence of low
birth weight, and to reduce the prevalence of vitamin-A deficiency and iron-deficiency anemia. Services
include growth/weight gain monitoring and promotion, behavior change communication to improve feeding,
eating and caring practices, and targeted, short-term food supplementation, complemented by linkages with
various levels of health care facilities for services and referral. NNP also will, within the proposed "
roll-out" of core community nutrition services to a total of 139 upazilas (60 BINP and 79 new upazilas),
incorporate upazila-level field tests of altemative forms of supplementation, and adaptations of services to
serve populations in urban areas and the Chittagong Hill Tracts.
a. Social Mobilization and Infrastructure Development
Community Assessments. Analsis and Action.-Community assessment, analysis and action is a process
whereby community members assess their local nutrition situation, discuss its causes, and decide on
remedial actions. Inputs for this process are provided by the initial household census and nutritional
screening of NNP target groups, and monthly data on growth monitoring and promotion (GMP) of children
under two, and on pregnancy weight gains, birth weights, and adolescent girls weights and heights. Results
are prominently displayed on Community Growth Charts at the Community Nutrition Centers (CNCs) to
raise the community's awareness of its nutrition situation and generate discussion on the causes and ways to
deal with it. This is a potentially important means for generating community ownership of nutrition actions
and their longer-term sustainability. NNP will place increased emphasis on supporting community
assessment, analysis and action through training of upazila-level personnel, and improved facilitation of the
process.
Village Nutrition Management Committees will be formed in all villages where ABCN services are
extended. Village Nutrition Management Committees (VNMCs) composed of decision makers in the village
including representatives of the local government, other government personnel NGOs and local community
organizations, will be responsible for representing the entire community in all matters pertaining to the
program. Their specific responsibilities will include the final selection of the Community Nutrition
Promoters, participation in the process of assessing, analyzing, and taking action on the community
nutrition situation, providing facilities that can serve as Community Nutrition Center, and helping to
monitor the community nutrition activities in ways that are transparent to the community. The VNMC as
representatives of the community, will also assist in selecting the beneficiaries for the household food
security activities.
Community Nutrition Promoters. Community Nutrition Organizers and Community Nutrition Centers.-
The female Community Nutrition Promoters (CNPs) have a key role in implementation of the community
based nutrition services. CNPs as well as their supervisors, the Comnmunity Nutrition Organizers (CNOs),
are recruited from women residing in the village on the basis of established criteria. Being recruited by
VNMCs and NGOs, CNPs and CNOs will not be government employees. The responsibilities of CNPs will
be growth monitoring and promotion of pregnant women and very young children, nutritional counseling
through group meetings and home visits, record keeping and organization of supplementary feeding, and
conduct of adolescent girl forums. They will also be responsible for follow-up of households involved in the
household food security activities. Experience from BINP suggests that one CNP can adequately cover a
rural population of 1,000 to 1,500 persons, depending on the specifics of each community and its
geographical features. Based on the selection criteria successfully applied in BINP, CNPs will be women
from the village they are serving with a minimum of eight years of education, and having the willingness
and time to serve the whole community. Being part-time workers, CNPs will be provided a modest
-25 -



honorarium for their work. Community Nutrition Organizers will supervise them at a ratio of 1:1 0.
Specifically, CNOs will be responsible for performance reviews of CNPs, problem-solving, and on-the-job
training for identified areas of deficiencies found during their supervisory visits.
Women's Groups.-Within each village, CNC operations and the work of the CNP are facilitated by a
Women's Group. This is a group of nine to eleven poor women who are chosen based on their interest in
health and nutrition, their willingness to spend a few hours a week in helping the program, their
representation of different social and geographic sections of the community, and their need of additional
income as determined by the initial household census. The group members are trained primarily to assume
responsibility for the village-level preparation of nutrition supplements from locally purchased ingredients.
The supplements are sold at a small profit for use at CNCs, thus providing a small income to Women's
Group members. They assist the CNP in health and nutrition education, organizing the GMP sessions,
handling the day to day management of the CNC, making home visits, encouraging families to access the
nutrition services, and also participate in the process of assessment, analysis and action on nutrition
problems in the village.
Adolescent Girl Forums.-In each CNC, adolescent girls will form an "Adolescent Forum" which will
meet regularly to: (i) have their weights and heights measured and charted, (ii) participate in learning
activities on nutrition, personal hygiene and reproductive health, and (iii) receive micronutrient (iron/folate
or multiple micronutrient) supplements and deworming. Both school attending and non-attending unmarried
adolescent girls will participate in the adolescent forum. Parents of the adolescent girls will also be
encouraged to join the meeting for specific events.
b. Core Nutrition Activities: Addressing Caring Practices
Growth Monitoring and Promotion.-Newboms will be weighed in their homes within 48 hours after birth.
Children with normal birth weight will thereafter be brought to the CNCs once a month for weighing and
for charting their growth, providing a forum for the assessment of their growth and counseling based on the
outcome of the weighing and charting. GMP also identifies severely malnourished and/or growth faltering
children (age 6 -24 months) for daily supervised food supplementation at the CNC. Data from GMP
sessions, aggregated at the village level on a regular basis, will also be used as a basis for discussion and
action in community forums.
Low-Birthweight (LBW) Babies.-Mothers whose newboms are identified as low-birthweight (<2500 g)
will receive special education and counseling on feeding, particularly exclusive breastfeeding, and care of
their low-birthweight baby. CNP and members of the women's group will make weekly home visits to
ensure that their advice is followed and to provide special help as required. The growth of LBW babies will
be measured every two weeks for the first six months. LBW babies failing to respond will be referred to a
health facility.
Behavior Change Communication, including Individual Counseling.-Behavior change communication and
counseling for mothers are key activities within the core community nutrition services under NNP. The key
behaviors and messages to be conveyed will be based on formative research conducted during the
preparation and implementation of BINP. Where necessary, further formative research will be conducted to
identify barriers to the adoption of key behaviors. To make optimal use of 30 contacts during pregnancy
and the first 24 months of life, appropriate customized sequences of messages will be prepared and
conveyed during each of the three "blocks" of contacts-the ante-natal period, the first six months after
delivery and 6-24 months period for the baby. Particular attention will be focused on the "Nutritional
Negotiation" process between CNPs and mothers, tlrough which mothers participate in decisions about
their own behavior changes. Nutritional Negotiation requires that workers tailor recommendations to the
- 26 -



needs of a particular child in her/his own family's situation, enabling a mother to formulate her own
response to identified problems. Nutritional Negotiation has three key steps: (i) mothers and nutrition
workers explore the problem together, suggest possible solutions, and discuss constraints; (ii) mothers
choose one or two new practices they are willing to try at home. These practices are proposed by the
worker, based on the growth chart; and (iii) at their next encounter, the mother and worker jointly assess
the success of the selected actions. Monthly child weighing during GMP sessions provides evidence for
success or failure.
Targeted Supplementation of Children under Two.-Severely malnourished and growth faltering children
(weight-for-age < 60% NCHS median), identified as those whose weight gain is lower than 500 g over two
months (three weighings) within the first year and those with less than 300 g weight gain over a similar
period in the second year of life, will receive a daily multiple micronutrient-fortified food supplement at the
CNC. The purpose of such supplementation is to demonstrate to parents, through growth charting, that
substantial and rapid gains in the child's nutritional status are feasible through regular feeding of
appropriate complementary food (provided the child is otherwise healthy and free of heavy parasite
infestation). Admission to the supplementation program will go hand-in-hand with focused attention on the
child, including home visits by the CNP, to discuss potential causes of malnutrition and parental counseling
to improve household allocation of resources.
The supplement used by NNP will be a village-prepared cereal-pulse mixture with molasses and oil
providing about 150 Kcal per ration. It will be fortified with multiple micronutrients. All children receiving
the supplement will, moreover, also receive a daily dose of elemental iron (after 15 days of feeding to avoid
promoting infection), while a single high dose of vitamin A will only be provided to the severely
malnourished children. This will assist in improving their hemoglobin and vitamin-A status and accelerate
recovery from malnutrition.
Nutrition Services for Pregnant and Lactating Women.-Services for women will include pregnancy weight
gain monitoring and nutrition support, including targeted supplementation and micronutrient
supplementation. Because the incidence of low birth weight in Bangladesh is among the highest in the
world, and, since studies also show a deterioration of women's own nutritional status with each subsequent
birth, NNP aims to increase weight gains during pregnancy to at least 9 kg or more. This will be done
through early identification of pregnancies, monthly weighing and nutrition counseling of pregnant women,
appropriate referral to health services, and through targeted supplementation of pregnant and lactating girls
and women identified as malnourished through their BMI. Pregnant girls and women will receive iron folate
(or multiple micronutrient) tablets from the identification of pregnancy through 8 weeks post-partum.
Targeting of food supplementation under NNP will be based on women's/girls' weights. Women with BMI
less than 18.5 will be supplemented from early pregnancy through 8 weeks post partum. Additionally,
pregnancy growth faltering entrance criteria will be introduced: pregnant women, failing to gain a minimum
of 1 kg per month, automatically will be included in the feeding program.
Matemal supplements will consist of four rations, providing 600 Kcal/day, which should be consumed as a
snack that is additional to the normal daily diet. Pregnant and lactating women will receive a
multiple-micronutrient supplement to cover a wide range of nutritional needs rather than the daily
iron-folate tablets as in BINP. Pregnant women will also be encouraged to utilize ante-natal and postnatal
care services, as described below. Nutritional services for newly-married couples. CNPs will visit the
homes of newly-married couples to register them and take anthropometric measurements of the wife. The
results of anthropometric screening will provide a counseling opportunity whereby the CNP can motivate
the wife, her husband, and her mother-in-law to focus on improved nutritional status pre-pregnancy. At this
-27 -



initial meeting, CNPs will invite wives to attend monthly weighing sessions but, to keep their workload
manageable, they will not conduct follow-up visits for newly-married wives who do not attend.
Micronutrient supplementation of adolescent girls.-Adolescent girls participating in the adolescent forums
will receive micronutrient (iron/folate or multiple micronutrient) supplements and deworming. Girls will
receive a one-month supply of tablets at each forum, to be taken weekly as 120mg elemental iron and 250g
folic acid.
Alternative Supplementation Strategies.-Altemative supplementation regimes will be tested and refined in
four upazilas for possible larger-scale application in the future. Alternatives to be explored are: (i)
Supplementation of beneficiary children and malnourished pregnant and lactating women (PLWs) as under
BINP. In addition all adolescent girls from the. age of 13 until marriage, and all newly wed women from the
day of wedding registration until their first pregnancy (after which they receive normal PLW services), will
be supplemented irrespective of their nutritional status. This activity will be initiated in year 2. (ii)
Supplementation of beneficiary children as under BINP, but the supplementation of PLWs replaced by
intensive behavioral change efforts, largely through home visits. This activity will be initiated in year 2. (iii)
A "complementary feeding regimen", to be initiated in Year 2, which provides daily on-site feeding to all 6
through 11 month old infants to address a key behavior change objective of NNP, namely the universal
introduction of complementary food by six months of age, while also providing much needed micronutrients
to these children (through the planned micronutrient enrichment of the food supplement). This activity will
be initiated in year 3. (iv) Counseling for mothers on self- and child-care and feeding without providing
supplementation. This will be through intensive behavioral change efforts carried out in the absence of food
and largely through home visits both for the pregnant and lactating women and children under two. This
activity will be initiated in year 3.
3. Linkages to Health Services
Linkages with HPSP Outreach Services and Referral Care.-Under NNP, linkages with health and family
planning services will be strengthened at both primary and secondary levels and will be monitored for their
effectiveness. The Community Nutrition Center is the nodal point for ABCN services. For primary-level
care, linkages will be established with the following facilities: EPI outreach centers and Satellite Clinics for
immunization, birth spacing and post partum contraception, pregnancy-related care, and treatment of
pneumonia and diarrhea. Initially, the CNC will provide these services from a "merged" EPI center and
Satellite Clinic, wherever possible. Services will converge at the Community Clinics once these are made
operational under the HPSP, and the CNCs will have established linkage with them. Where available, NGO
service facilities could also be utilized. As in BINP, in those CNCs without nearby Satellite Clinics, CNOs
will be trained to provide basic ante-natal and post-natal services until access to care from a trained
provider in government service can be ensured.
Referral for pregnancy-related complications and emergencies, reproductive tract infections, and childhood
illnesses will be made to the appropriate facilities in the public sector such as the FWC, Upazila Health
Complex, MCWC, NGO clinics, as well as to the private health practitioners providing services within the
community.
Referral of Severely Malnourished Children.-Nutrition is usually associated with infection, which is either
the cause or effect of malnutrition and contributes significantly to the prolonged morbidity and high
mortality of severely malnourished children. Adequate health care and referral in the form of immediate
hospitalization, special nursing care, medical and dietary management is necessary to reduce the morbidity
and mortality of severely malnourished children.
- 28 -



Currently in the BINP upazilas approximately 14-15 percent of the severely malnourished children are
referred to the Upazila Health Complexes, Sadar Hospitals or private clinics. But these facilities are not
equipped with the protocol, logistics support, and personnel with the appropriate skills and knowledge to
manage severe malnutrition with associated complications. Thus a referral system with a standardized case
management protocol for severely malnourished children will be developed to fit the context of rural
Bangladesh. The Directorate of DGHS will be fully involved from the initial stages of development of the
system. The referral system for severe case management as described above, will be complemented by
provider training and by related upgrading of pediatric care, laboratory facilities and necessary logistics at
referral points.
4. Household Food Security Activities
a. Rationale for Inclusion of Food Security Activities in ABNC
Malnutrition is caused by a number of factors that can be grouped together as being related to food, health
and behavior. Consequently, efforts to reduce malnutrition through the delivery of health and nutrition
services alone cannot be as effective as those that also address the other important factors. Both chronic
and transitory household food insecurity is serious in Bangladesh. Available data suggest that a quarter of
the population consume fewer than 1,800 kcal per day, with about 15 percent getting fewer than 1,600 kcal
per day. To improve this situation BINP has been promoting food security at the household level by giving
support for poultry raising and nutrition gardening activities with reasonable success. The experience of
BINP has informed the design of the NNP food security component. Like BINP, NNP will empower
communities to access household food security activities found appropriate to the needs of nutritionally
vulnerable households. In addition to the income generation opportunities provided to the women's group
that prepares food supplements, the ABCN component will offer (i) agro-based income generating
activities, i.e., poultry rearing with a micro-credit facility, and nutrition gardening, and (ii) food-based
income transfer cum skills development under the WFP-assisted Vulnerable Group Development (VGD)
program.
Food security activities will commence once certain agreed criteria have been met. These include (i)
infrastructure availability and social mobilization advanced, including a functioning Village Management
Committee and Women's Group, (ii) a viable number of CNCs with demonstrated success in the
implementation of the core nutrition services such as high coverage achieved for monitoring the growth of
children and weight gain in pregnancy, and (iii) a competent NGO identified for implementation of the
household food security activities. After the recommendation of the participating NGO and verification by
the NNP Project Management Unit (see below), food security activities may then commence.
The selection of households eligible for these food security activities will be unambiguous and transparent,
using procedures established under BINP. Services will be targeted specifically to poor, food insecure
households with reproductive age women. Those households identified as "Poor" from the initial household
census will be brought under one of the above-mentioned agro-based food security interventions suitable
for the family. Reproductive-age women designated as "very poor" who are unable to participate in other
food security activities, but are considered trainable will be eligible for inclusion in the VGD program.
b. Agro-based Food Security Services
As in BINP, the delivery of the agro-based food security services will be facilitated by a local NGO.
Tripartite contracts will be drawn up among (1) the NGOs, (2) the Project Management Unit, and (3) the
Department of Agricultural Extension of the Ministry of Agriculture (in the case of nutrition gardening)
and the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (in the case of poultry). Where possible preference for
- 29 -



conducting the food security activities will be given to the NGO which is involved in the provision of core
nutrition services in each particular upazila.
Overall responsibility for the household food security activities will be with the NNP Project Management
Unit and one of the designated officers will be given the specific task of managing this component.
Technical support will be available from the specialized United Nations (UN) agencies for food security
matters, e.g., the Food and Agricultural Organization, and the NGO implemented programs of poultry
rearing and nutrition gardening. In contrast to the supply-led approach adopted in BINP, the selection of
either poultry or nutrition gardening under NNP will be a demand-driven process. Eligible households will
choose between the two, or both, based on local conditions. Concerned line ministries or contracted NGO
will thereupon be responsible for aggregating the demand and responding in an appropriate manner.
c. Food-based Income Transfer and Skill Development
In the Government of Bangladesh's VGD program, food serves as an incentive for very poor women to
participate in training programs for which their daily struggle for food and survival would otherwise leave
them no time. The VGD 18-month cycle of food support and "development package" services (including
income-generating skills training, awareness raising on social, legal and other issues, and savings and
credit) lifts women to a less-severe level of poverty from which participation in other interventions then
becomes possible. The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) provides food to and pays for
development package services for VGD participants, although 25% of participants do not receive
development package services due to resource constraints. NNP and VGD activities can work in a
complementary way to improve the nutritional status of very poor women and their children. Food support
under the VGD program can serve as an entry point for the NNP to reach people who lack the minimal
assets or skills required to participate in other food security activities like poultry rearing or nutrition
gardening. Conversely, NNP nutritional counseling services can improve the nutritional impact of VGD by
improving diets and intra-household food distribution.
In NNP upazilas, the VGD will enroll "NNP/VGD" participants who meet both NNP and VGD eligibility
criteria, resulting in a significant expansion in the total number of participants served by VGD. In NNP
upazilas, the project will fund two VGD cycles (36 months) of development package services (excluding
credit) for these additional NNP/VGD" participants, and development package services for the 25% of
VGD participants who currently do not receive this benefit. WFP and bilateral donors will provide the food
support for all NNP/VGD eligible women and continue to fund development package services for 75% of
current VGD cardholders. Because this number of additional participants resulting from joint VGD and
NNP eligibility criteria is too large for VGD to absorb in one cycle, VGD will enroll all eligible NNP
participants in phases but within three 18-month cycles.
B. National-Level Nutrition Services Sub-Component (US$ 11.70 million)
1. Overview
National-level nutrition services will include cost-effective, high impact priority interventions that will be
implemented on a national scale. Some, like breast-feeding promotion and protection and ricronutrient
supplementation, focus on the nutritional problems of pregnant and lactating women and young children,
who are also the target groups for ABCN services under NNP. Since NNP will achieve countrywide
coverage only in phases, the national-level interventions provide the most effective means available for
meeting some of the immediate nutritional needs of beneficiaries in areas not initially covered by NNP.
Additionally, they address nutritional problems among other populations that are most efficiently dealt with
through HPSP and other ministries. Outside of the NNP project areas, such activities will be monitored
independently of the ABCN activities. National-level nutrition activities include (i) breastfeeding protection
- 30 -



and promotion, (ii) micro-nutrient supplementation, including procurement, and (iii) fortification of
appropriate foods with micronutrients.
2. Breastfeeding Protection and Promotion
Breastfeeding activities cut across both area-based and national level nutrition services. Interpersonal
counseling and behavior change communication within ABCN services will include promotion of optimum
breastfeeding, exclusive breastfeeding up to six months, followed by introduction of appropriate
complementary feeding at six months. As of now the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) has
successfully covered about 70 percent of the matemity beds of major hospitals and maternity clinics
through the work of BBF. Consequently, the priority under NNP will be to establish an effective
monitoring mechanism, and sustain BFHI status of these hospitals. In addition NNP will, through BBF, (i)
support activities for enforcement of the law on the marketing and distribution of breast milk substitutes,
(ii) promote and campaign for breastfeeding intensively on a national scale; and (iii) ensure the proper
adaptation and dissemination of UNAIDS/WHO/UNICEF Guidelines on Breast feeding and HIV.
3. Micronutrient Supplements
Vitamin A capsules (VACs) are distributed, under the direction of IPHN, (i) twice yearly to all children age
one to five in conjunction with "National Immunization Day" and "National Vitamin A Week", (ii)
therapeutically to all children suffering from severe malnutrition, pneumonia, measles and diarrhea, or
xerophthalmia (clinically diagnosed vitamin A deficiency), (iii) to post-partum women (one high dose
[200,000 IU] vitamin A capsule within two weeks of delivery), and (iv) to all under five children following
flood or cyclone catastrophes. Additionally, children under 1 year receive 100,000 IU liquid vitamin A at
nine months at EPI outreach centers. While in recent years VAC coverage of children under-five has
increased impressively, post-partum vitamin A supplementation (for which there is a national policy) is not
yet implemented to an appreciable extent except in BINP upazilas due to the low coverage of post-partum
care.
Universal iron/folate or multi-micronutrient supplementation for pregnant and lactating women is
recommended in any population where the prevalence of anemia is greater than 30 percent the situation
obtaining in Bangladesh. Under BINP, PLW receive iron/folate from the CNP at the CNC, but women in
non-BINP areas must rely on the primary health care system of HPSP to obtain tablets. Estimated coverage
of ante-natal iron and folate supplementation is also low.
Although the HPSP has made budgetary provision to purchase micronutrient supplements for pregnant and
lactating women (iron/folate) and children age one to six years (mass-dose vitamin A capsules), supplement
procurement is seriously underfimded. Therefore, to ensure that alleviation of micronutrient deficiencies is
not constrained by inadequate availability of supplements, NNP will procure all supplements for national
programs.
Iron/folate tablets provided by HPSP occasionally appear in the marketplace, indicating leakage from the
primary health care delivery system. to reduce this leakage, UNICEF, which procures the supplements, will
investigate the possibility of stamping iron/folate tablets for easy identification of those tablets provided at
no cost by the government of Bangladesh.
4. Iodine Fortification of Salt
UNICEF has taken the lead in addressing iodine deficiency disorders in Bangladesh through its support of
- 31 -



the "Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders" (CIDD) project implemented by the Bangladesh Small and
Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC) of the Ministry of Industry. UNICEF thus will coordinate, with
BSCIC, IPHN and other partners, the activities required to achieve the NNP development objective for
reducing iodine deficiency disorders. During NNP, BSCIC, under UNICEF support, will undertake new
initiatives for: (i) introduction of appropriate technology for crude salt production, (ii) repairing, upgrading
and improving the salt iodization plants currently in use and appropriate technology development for
demoisturizing and magnesium removal, (iii) improving compliance with the universal salt iodization law.
Introduction of appropriate technology for crude salt production. Indigenous raw salt in Bangladesh has a
high impurity content due to primitive salt bed construction and inefficient methods for gathering
solar-dried raw salt. This low quality hinders proper salt iodization and precludes efforts to double-fortify
salt with iodine and iron. BSCIC and UNICEF will organize producers and provide funding to line
production beds with a low cost material that will create a barrier between dried salt and the soil below.
Additionally, BSCIC and UNICEF will introduce improved salt gathering methods by bringing four
workers from the Indian salt industry to Bangladesh to demonstrate modernized practices over an entire salt
producing season.
Improving salt iodization plants maintenance and appropriate technology development for demoisturizing
and magnesium removal. Salt mills iodize salt by using a "Salt lodization Plant" (SIP) provided by
UNICEF in 1996, but current salt milling practices result in salt with a high moisture content which is
difficult to iodize properly. UNICEF will support a nation-wide assessment, repair and re-calibration of all
SIPs used by licensed producers and design and test a centrifuge drying system for reducing salt moisture
content. Once a successful design is available, BSCIC and UNICEF will motivate producers to add the
centrifuge system to the current SIP.
To assist salt mill owners in their efforts to produce adequately iodized salt, BSCIC and UNICEF will
organize and motivate them to create "group laboratories" at which several salt mills can test the iodine
content of salt they produce while sharing costs.
Improving compliance with the universal salt iodization law. UNICEF has funded BSCIC salt testing
laboratories for each production zone covered by the CIDD project. Overly-centralized laboratory
management, however, has hampered efficient monitoring and reporting of salt iodine content. Thus
UNICEF will provide each BSCIC laboratory with all required equipment for efficient salt testing. BSCIC
and UNICEF additionally will develop an improved rapid testing kit for household-level use and increase
behavioral change communications efforts to increase consumer demand for iodized salt.
Provision of Potassium Iodate (KI03).-Salt producers currently receive potassium iodate for iodization
from the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC), which in turn receives K103
from UNICEF. UNICEF/BSCIC and the Salt Mill Owners Association currently are discussing a
cost-sharing scheme by which industry itself will eventually bear the costs of potassium iodate
procurement. UNICEF will provide potassium iodate for the duration of the NNP project period, but NNP
may fund its purchase if UNICEF is unable to provide it.
5. Micronutrient Fortification of Centrally-processed Foods
Food fortification has been cited in the National Plan of Action for Nutrition as a key strategy for
overcoming micronutrient malnutrition. In itself, the impact of food fortification on micronutrient
malnutrition will be limited because the general population consumes few centrally processed foods, and
consumption of the few centrally processed foods that exist varies widely according to socio-economic
- 32 -



status. Nonetheless, edible oil (soybean and palm) and wheat flour are centrally processed foods consumed
by large segments of the population that hold promise for fortification. Other possible fortification vehicles
may exist, and research leading to selection of appropriate foods for fortification is underway.
Other than the selection of appropriate food vehicles for fortification, the primary constraint to fortification
is the lack of an enabling legislative guideline: food purity laws prevent addition of any substance to a pure
food, and, in the absence of legislative "permission" and specifications for fortificant level, the food
industry has been reluctant to pursue fortification under their own initiative. Under NNP, a legislative
guideline allowing fortification will be written and provided to lawmakers so that, once proper legislation is
passed, improved standards testing and quality management can be pursued under NNP. The draft
legislation will not specify technical guidelines but refer to specifications to be produced by the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare so that subsequent changes in policy will not require legislative change.
6. Social Marketing of Micronutrients
Bangladesh has an efficient, internationally competitive pharmaceutical industry and has been
outstandingly successful with the social marketing of donated imported contraceptives and domestically
produced oral rehydration salts, which are readily available at numerous pharmacies and drug shops
throughout urban and rural Bangladesh. There is, in addition, considerable consumer awareness of the
benefits of micronutrient supplements. It is therefore being considered to use social marketing as an
additional distribution channel that will complement iron/folate distribution through the MOHFW's
primary health care delivery system. As a first step, NNP will finance a feasibility study to explore
domestic and international sources of micronutrient supplements, pricing, consumer demand and potential
social marketing channels. Portions of this study may be done in collaboration with, and with partial
financing from, domestic private sector micronutrient distributors that may be expected to benefit from the
results.
Project Component 2 - US$41.20 million
lI. Project Support and Institutional Development Component (US$41.2 million)
The Project Support and Institutional Development Component provides a foundation for the delivery of
high-impact nutritional services through the Service Component. The Project Management and
Development Sub-Component will ensure supervision of project activities, contract NGO partners, and
manage disbursement of funds and procurement of goods and services. Monitoring, Evaluation and
Operations Research activities will keep administration inforned concerning the adequacy of service
delivery and its effectiveness, thereby enabling timely remedial management actions, provide technical
solutions to nutritional problems identified through implementation, and assess the project's success in
achieving its goals. The Training and Behavioral Change Communications Sub-Component will develop
the human resources needed for effective field and management operations and provide the vision for
attitudes and behaviors leading to better nutrition among target groups, project staff, policy makers
industry, and the population at large.
A. Project Management and Development Sub-Component (US$ 8.7 million)
1. Overview
Under NNP, Project management arrangements will be developed to: (i) ensure linkages between and within
the concerned government departments and with civil society that are appropriate to NNP's multi-sectoral
- 33 -



nature; (ii) give nutrition the prominence within MOHFW which is merited by its key importance to the
reduction of mortality and disease; (iii) link the management of the nutrition project with the management
of the broader Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP); (iv) ensure a high degree of transparency
and accountability for technical and financial performance; and (v) ensure a smooth transition from BINP
to NNP, and from the NNP management arrangements to a longer-term institutional framework that will
be sustainable in the long run.
Key processes and activities to this end will include (i) the establishment, within the MOHFW, of an NNP
Project Management Unit (PMU), (ii) adoption of a revised NGO contract management system, (iii)
effective linkages between NNP service delivery and management systems with those under the IHPSP, (iv)
effective linkages between PMU and the management units under various line department for managing
household food security services: and (v) strengthened management capacities of communities and NGOs.
2. Establishment of an NNP Project Management Unit
Although NNP will include substantial food security-related activities, the NNP Project Management Unit
(PMU) will be located in the MOHFW, since it is expected that NNP's primary benefits will come from the
community-based core services for nutrition monitoring and promotion and their synergisms with health
and family welfare interventions and complementary national-level high-impact nutrition interventions
implemented by the MOHFW, such as micro-nutrient deficiency control and nutrition-related behavior
change communications.
Reflecting its special status within the MOHFW, NNP will have a Project Steering Committee, chaired by
the Minister, MOHFW. The NNP Steering Committee will be responsible for providing policy guidelines
and coordination directives, for approving annual plans and budgets, and for reviewing overall project
performance. Linkages with other Government departments will be ensured by including as members the
Secretaries of Agriculture; Fisheries and Livestock; Women and Children's Affairs; Education; Industry;
Information; Local Government Division; Finance and Extemal Resources Department; and
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division; as well as the relevant Member, Planning
Commission.
The NNP Steering Committee will be supported by an Advisory Panel, which will consist of the Chairman
of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health, the Chairman of the Standing Technical Committee of
BNNC and prominent representatives of the NGO community and of civil society. This Panel will give the
Steering Committee guidance on how the project can best serve the interests of the people. It will also serve
as a channel through which the NNP can inform key leaders and opinion-makers about the project.
Irrespective of the long-term home of NNP, it is recognized that close cooperation between NNP and HPSP
is of the utmost importance. In the field, this will be facilitated by the fact that NNP will be managed as
part of the health and family welfare program at the District and Upazila levels (see below). Within
MOHFW headquarters, an NNP Management Committee for Health and Family Welfare will be created to
oversee NNP/HPSP coordination. It will be chaired by the Secretary, MOHFW, and its members will
include the Directors-General of Health and Family Planning; the Line Directors for Nutrition and the
Essential Services Program; and the Joint Secretary, MOHFW and focal point for nutrition, Joint
Secretary, Local Government Division (LGD) Unlike BINP, NNP will be implemented in urban as well as
rural areas, and the inclusion of a representative of the LGD will facilitate the planning and coordination of
NNP activities in urban areas, where health services are delivered by municipal authorities for which LGD
has oversight, as well as the Executive Director of the PMU. A staff member of the NNP Management Unit
will also work as a full time point person for coordination with HPSP.
- 34 -



The main functions of the PMU will be to plan and budget for NNP; contract with NGOs and other line
ministries to deliver the NNP outputs; coordinate project implementation; monitor physical and financial
performance and take corrective action; propose and organize extemal monitoring and operations research;
initiate re-design of project strategies and institutional structures and processes as needed; procure goods
and services; and report on all of the above to the NNP Steering Committee, implementing institutions, and
the development partners.
Reflecting these functions, the PMU will consist of five units (Project Operations, NGO Selection and
Contracting, Coordination and Technical, Finance, and Administration and Procurement) and will have a
core staff of about 30 professionals, which will be augmented as necessary by the contracting of short-term
consultants. To attract staff of the highest possible caliber into the NNP PMU, PMU professional staff will
be paid salaries at market, rather than civil service rates and will be hired on two-year contracts, renewable
every two years depending on performance. Exceptions to this are the positions of Executive Director,
Director, Finance, and Director, Administration and Procurement, which will be filled by government
officers.
The PMU will operate on defined procedures for financial management, procurement (including contracting
with NGOs-see below), field supervision and quality assurance, and monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
These will include financial management arrangements that are compliant with IDA's new loan
administration requirements. For this purpose, the following manuals will be developed and introduced-
preferably before the initiation of NNP: (i) Financial Management and Accounting System Manual; (ii)
Procurement Procedures Manual, (iii) Operational Procedures Manual (administrative matters; NGO
selection and contracting; reporting), and (iv) a Field Operations Manual. PMU functions will,
furthermore, be supported by adequate premises and the use of modem office technology.
3. NGO Contract Management System
As under BINP, NGOs will be major partners with the Government in NNP implementation. However, the
eventual scale of NNP field operations and the anticipated number of NGO partners will preclude the
possibility of the PMU contracting directly with all partner NGOs. It is therefore planned for the PMU to
contract with a small number of "Lead" NGOs who may, in some upazilas or parts of upazilas, in turn
involve smaller "partner" NGOs to deliver ABCN services. To further reduce the number of contracts, it is
planned that core nutrition and food security services will be contracted to lead NGOs as a single package,
and that NNP upazilas will be contracted out to lead NGOs in packages of five or six. New model
contracts and a revised lead NGO selection procedure have been developed to reflect the new approach to
NGO involvement under NNP.
To reflect the increased scale of operation under NNP, a precondition for lead NGO short-listing will be
that they have at least two year's experience in Comnmunity Health and Nutrition activities covering 50% of
the population in at least 10 upazilas. Interested NGOs who meet this precondition will be competitively
evaluated for each package of upazilas, on the basis of the following selection criteria: (i) past record of
implementing successful community nutrition activities; (ii) past record of working cooperatively with
government and other NGOs; (iii) adequacy of human resources and human resource development system;
(iv) adequacy of management and financial systems; and (v) current presence in the proposed area and
acceptability to the local community.
4. NNP Services Delivery and Management System Linkages with TIPSP
- 35 -



Although the community nutrition services of NNP will be functionally converged with the HPSP delivery
system at the upazila level and below, NNP will be budgeted and managed separately from HPSP, although
in close coordination with it, reflecting the fact that NNP and HPSP have different time frames and that
NNP involves activities outside the health and family welfare sector. The NNP Health and Family Welfare
Management Committee (see a. above) will facilitate NNP/HPSP coordination at the central level.
The main unit of management for ABCN services will remain the upazila. Because the BINP experience
demonstrated that part time involvement of the Assistant Upazila Family Planning Officer (ATFPO) was
insufficient for project needs, for NNP upazilas the ATFPO post has been re-designated as full-time"
Upazila Nutrition Coordinator" (UZNC). The UZNC will be responsible for coordinating all NNP
activities in the upazila on a day to day basis, with support as needed from the Upazila Health and Family
Planning Officer (for health and family planning services), and the Upazila Nirbahi Officer and the upazila
level officers of the Food and Livestock and Agricultural Extension Departments (for food security
activities).
Field linkages between nutrition and health/family planning activities will be facilitated by the fact that the
UZNC will be part of the staff of the Upazila Health and Family Planning Office. Under BINP, a high
degree of convergence has already emerged betveen health and family planning workers in the field, as
field staff have realized the mutual benefit of working together. Under NNP, Community Nutrition Centers
will continue to be established in connection with the EPI Centers and Satellite Clinics of the Health and
Family Welfare System, thus providing a "one stop shop" for clients.
5. Management of Food Security Services
BINP financed small sub-project management units in the Department of Agricultural Extension and in the
Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries to plan and budget, monitor and supervise food security activities
implemented by NGO partners. NNP will continue the financing of these management units, and also
finance a similar unit in the Department of Women's and Children's Affairs, to oversee the vulnerable
group development activities to be financed under NNP.
6. Capacity Development for Management of Area-based Community Nutrition Services by
Communities, NGOs, and Local-Government Units
By the end of the series of NNP projects, and in line with the overall institutional development strategy for
NNP, it is expected that management of the area-based community nutrition services-core community
nutrition services and household food security interventions-will have been handed over to local
government units, working in close cooperation with client communities, NGOs, and central government
agencies. To this end, communities will, in the course of NNP, be made capable of monitoring the
performance of NNP in their area and of collaborating with implementers to improve coverage and quality
of services. This will be achieved by defining clear terms of reference for Nutrition Management
Committees at each level and by developing a set of simple monitoring indicators by which community
leaders on the committees can monitor progress. Under the recent legislation on decentralization, it is the
intention of GOB to transfer the management of family planning, primary health and nutrition services to
local governments. However, by the time of appraisal of NNP, the Government had not decided the extent
of the transfer of financial resources, the degree of local government managerial autonomy, or the timetable
for capacity-building and decentralization. It was therefore not possible, during the preparation of NNP, to
design steps to build the capacity of local governments to take over NNP, or to plan for the transition. This
will be done in the course of NNP, as decentralization progresses, using funds allocated for this purpose.
- 36 -



B. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Operations Research Sub-Component (US$ 8 million)
1. Overview
By the end of NNP, a monitoring, research and evaluation capacity will have been developed which will: (i)
provide rapid, useful feedback to project clients, and to implementing staff and managers; (ii) enable NNP
to test new strategies on a continuous basis as part of its learning activities and incorporate the results of
successful findings into the mainstream project in a timely manner; (iii) ensure objective, high quality
evaluation of project performance, with special attention to studying outcomes and impact relating to policy
and strategy decisions; and (iv) integrate monitoring, O.R. and evaluation, so that they form an
interdependent learning process for the project.
Activities included under NNP to this end are (i) the development and use of a performance
improvement-oriented management information system (MIS), in view of the desired integration of
management information, independent monitoring, operations research and evaluation, the MIS for NNP is
described under the "Learning System sub-component of NNP, even though it will be in its entirety
administered and run by the NNP Project Management Unit described under the NNP Project Management
System sub-component, (ii) independent monitoring of NNP performance, (iii) capacity development for
and conduct of operations research, and (iv) impact evaluations of NNP.
2. Development and Use of a Performance Improvement-oriented MIS System
As under BINP, an internal management information system (MIS) based on service records and reports
for the area-based community nutrition services will enable the NNP management to: (i) appraise project
coverage for weighing, counseling, feeding, and micronutrient supplementation; (ii) ensure that each CNC
is fully equipped and functional; (iii) assess trends in nutritional status; and, to some extent; and (iv)
evaluate achievements in reducing malnutrition.
Some modifications to the BINP MIS model, however, can improve the use of monitoring information at
the level where it is generated: (i) Greater involvement of the Village Nutrition Management Conunittee in
monitoring project activity is possible, as has been suggested for BINP. BINP has instituted written VNMC
agreements based on monthly review of monitoring data, but CNPs/CNOs require additional skills in the
presentation of data to the VNMC for analysis. (ii Specific attention will be given to the integrated
monitoring of food security activities through the ABNC component, ensuring that NNP management and
stakeholders for ABNC are able to assess progress in food security. (iii) Community involvement in the
collection of monitoring data will be improved. This may be especially useful in the monitoring of food
security activities like nutrition gardening and poultry for nutrition, so as to improve NGO accountability
to the Village Nutrition Management Committee for input distribution and community awareness of food
security needs.
3. Independent Quality Assurance of NNP Performance
The Independent Quality Assurance Group (IQUAG) has five major responsibilities at the field level: (i)
quality checking of project service data (ii) special analyses of service records specially extracted in
support of special queries, (iii) independent nutritional surveillance, (iv) assessment of nutrition-related
behaviors among participants, of social mobilization efforts, and of participant perceptions, and (v)
execution of special studies to augment service monitoring data.
The GOB has designated the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), the Institute of Nutrition and Food
- 37 -



Science, Dhaka University (INFS), and Helen Keller International (HKI) as lead agencies for support and
capacity building for independent monitoring under BINP, and these institutions will serve NNP in the
samne capacity. BBS will undertake data quality assessments in NNP upazilas. INFS will design the
behavioral surveys, conduct analysis of extracted service records, and undertake special studies as called
for by the PMU. HKI will modify its ongoing nutritional surveillance progran to include a subset of NNP
upazilas (funded externally) as well as provide technical assistance to NNP monitoring and evaluation. The
assessment of nutrition-related behaviors, of social mobilization efforts and of participant perceptions will
be contracted but supervised by the IQUAG.
At least one of the "special studies" conducted by the independent monitoring team will focus on
longitudinal data collection on selected individuals to document the impact of the entire range of NNP
services.
4. Capacity Development for Learning Activities and Conduct of Operations Research
While NNP has benefited considerably from the experiences of BINP and other nutrition and health-related
interventions in Bangladesh and neighboring Asian countries, there continue to be important gaps in
knowledge and program experience which inhibit effective programming. These include (i) testing of
sustainable and acceptable supplementation and other strategies intended to reduce moderate child
malnutrition and low birthweight incidence, (ii) adapting the NNP delivery system to the Chittagong Hill
Tracts (CHT), and low-income urban areas, and (iii) investigating the coverage and efficiency of
alternative inputs and delivery systems for nutritional services for adolescent girls. NNP will seek to fill
these gaps by implementing pilot upazilas (Urban areas and the CHT), learning activities, and operations
research. Pilot interventions and learning activities (described above in Section I.A. Alternative
supplementation strategies") will be conducted on a upazila scale through contracts with lead NGOs for
implementation. A technical support unit (TSU) working with the PMU will ensure timely implementation,
adequate monitoring and evaluation, and appropriate analysis of these activities. The TSU also will report
results and produce recommendations to the PMU for incorporation of findings into NNP management and
planning. Finally, the TSU will take responsibility for coordinating the overall work of the MIS, the
IQUAG and its own learning activities.
Operations research under NNP will be contracted to a suitable organization for conduct and capacity
building. Because BINP OR already has resolved many high-priority operational issues, a smaller or
component is planned than that executed under BINP. Also unlike BINP, which focused on capacity
building through a large number of small OR studies, individual NNP operations research projects will be
funded up to US$ 100,000 each , and the organization contracted to manage these research projects will
focus on the conduct of research rather than on capacity building.
Separate learning activities on low birth weight reduction through multiple micronutrient supplementation,
and caring practice for cognitive development of children will be carried out in BINP and carried into NNP
with support of UNICEF.
5. Impact Evaluations of NNP
NNP will be evaluated after two years of field activity (after year 3 of the project) and at the end of the
project. Both internal evaluations, involving all key actors in reviewing processes at village, union, upazila
and district levels, as well as extemal evaluations, using standard procedures, will be conducted. The
external evaluations will be carried out through a single contract (with a well-drafted non-performance
clause) covering baseline surveys, mid-term and final evaluations to assure comparability and full, ongoing
- 38 -



utilization of the project monitoring informnation. MIS officials within the PMU, with assistance from the
IQUAG will be responsible for management and institutional arrangements for evaluations.
NNP evaluation will be linked with the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey series executed by the BBS under
UNICEF support. In addition to providing comparison data, this linkage will allow assessment of the
national-level effects of NNP (and, eventually, the entire series of NNP projects).
C. Training and Behavioral Change Communications Sub-Component (US$ 24.5 million)
1. Overview
Training and Behavioral Change Communications are integrated under NNP to focus behavioral change for
service providers in addition to beneficiaries, and to strengthen the required linkage between project
activities and the behavioral changes they are designed to achieve. An integrated approach will be in-built
in all training, with BCC included in all training modules. Coordination and management of Training-BCC
will be carried out by the PMU through a Communication and Training group, headed by a Portfolio
Manager, under the Coordination and Technical Unit.
2. Training
A solid human resource base is essential for the long-term sustainability of a national nutrition program.
The Training and Behavioral Change Communications sub-component will develop a core group of
frontline nutrition workers who are capable to mobilize communities for action against malnutrition (based
on assessment of the nutrition situation and analysis of underlying causes), skilled in negotiating with
household members to change key behaviors affecting nutrition, and able to manage demonstration feeding
activities and other interventions to improve nutrition. In addition, the sub-component will develop nutrition
managers, particularly mid-level managers, strengthen the capacity of national institutions to provide
program-oriented training, and ensure that clinical staff have the necessary skills to manage referred cases
of severe malnutrition with medical complications and complicated pregnancy based on standardized
protocols. The sub-component will strengthen links with HPSP at the upazila level through joint training of
HPSP functionalies.
Training for field level workers (CNP and CNOs) will be the responsibility of the lead NGOs contracted to
deliver services at the upazila level. A upazila training team, consisting of NGO trainers and key
upazila-level functionaries will provide initial training and refresher courses to CNP and CNOs at upazila
level. They will also conduct joint training for field level HPSP functionaries and will be responsible for the
orientation of management committees at upazila, union and village level.
As in BINP, the training of trainers will be conducted by a core training team, drawn from the lead NGOs
and relevant national nutrition institutions. Management training for upazila level functionaries will be
provided by IPHN and BRAC.
In place of the proposed training task force, the government will set up a national BCC and training
advisory group (BCC-TAG) under the project. In regard to training, the BBC-TAG will: (i) ensure
consistency between NNP and HPSP training programs, and avoid duplication or overlap-particularly
among those or food security training programs; (ii) review the training master plan and annual plans of
action for NNP training to ensure that the training and capacity building needs of all service providers and
other stakeholders are systematically met; and (iii) facilitate smooth and effective institutional arrangements
for training and capacity building.
- 39 -



In addition to the BCC-TAG, a national training networking group (TNG) will be established to assist in:
(i) review of existing NNP-related training curricula, based on analysis of tasks to be performed; (ii)
revision of training material; (iii) development of and quality assurance for reproduction of training
materials; and (iv) preparation of a national master plan for NNP-related training and for training
monitoring and evaluation.
Arrangements for training management and implementation will be reviewed at mid term. If indicated, an in
depth needs assessment for long term capacity strengthening of the training institutions will be undertaken
at that time, to inform the preparation of NNP.
2. Behavior Change Communications
Without changes in behavior related to eating, feeding and other caring practices, improved food security is
not sufficient to improve nutritional status. In view of this fact, behavior change communication is the core
strategy for achieving the NNP objectives. The specific objectives of behavior change communications
(BCC) under NNP will be to: (i) foster positive changes in maternal, infant and child caring practices
focusing on the basic behaviors clearly impacting on PEM and micronutrient malnutrition; (ii) increase the
demand for and the utilization of available health, nutrition and food security services in the community;
(iii) help develop the capacity of the community to assess, analyze and address the malnutrition problem in
the target groups; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the union and upazila-level staff to train, supervise and
support community workers in their BCC tasks during project implementation; and (v) advocate for policy
support to provide and improve nutrition services by persuading and motivating policy makers and opinion
leaders about the need for concerted action in the field of nutrition and about the most effective ways to go
about it.
In close collaboration with HPSP, NNP will implement an integrated behavior change communication
strategy that will include policy communication and advocacy, and social mobilization and interpersonal
communication in the area based program. The BCC activities will also include an intensive program of
advocacy, social mobilization and interpersonal communication focusing on the special needs of adolescent
girls. Under a co-financing agreement, UNICEF will provide technical support to the NNP, to develop a
program strategy and operational plan for a national advocacy and policy development campaign. NNP
will provide inputs for materials development, media exposure and other communication events during year
2, 3 and 4 of the project.
For the Area-based Component, the approach to social mobilization will be strengthened through the
development of a standard methodology and materials development and reproduction. In addition, the
available package of inter-personal communications materials developed under BINP will be field tested,
revised as necessary, and reproduced in sufficient numbers of use during the first two years of the project.
After review at midterm, further inter-personal communications packages will be developed and
disseminated. The adolescent strategy will include formative research, development, production and
implementation of media, and communication packages and advocacy activities.
The BCC-TAG will provide overall guidance on BCC strategy and ensure consistency between NNP and
HPSP communication activities, avoiding duplication of communication activities undertaken through the
BCC unit in HPSP. The Group will review the BCC strategy and annual plans of action for NNP BCC
activities to ensure that key messages regarding behavior change are consistently disseminated and that
public awareness of and support for the NNP is sustained, and facilitate smooth and effective institutional
arrangements for behavior change communication on nutrition.
-40 -



In addition to the BCC-TAG, a technical BCC network for nutrition will be established to assist in: (i)
review and ongoing refinement of nutrition-related BCC activities, including inter-personal communications
materials development and application; (ii) develop a strategy and operational plan for national level
advocacy and policy communication activities; (iii) develop a standardized methodology on social
mobilization in the area based program; develop and implement a focused BCC strategy for adolescents;
and (iv) monitor and evaluate BCC activities.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Component/Sub-Component                          Total Cost Total Cost    % of                 Fund Source
(Lac Taka)  (Mil US$)  Expenses  GOB   IDA            Other Donors
I           Netherlands |CIDA
Service Component
Area Based Community Nutrition Services           34,892.64      67.75       54.4   4.34  63.41
Human Resources at Thana Level                 7,408.35      14.39       11.6   0.84  13.55
Thana Level Government Officials                430.56        0.84       0.7   0.84
TA/DA for CNO and CNP                          1,371.60       2.66       2.1           2.66
Office Rent and Utilities for Thana office      294.01        0.57       0.5           0.57
Surveys for Thana Level                         801.03        1.56       1.3           1.561
Stationery for Thana Level                      668.38        1.30        1.0          1.30
Transport, Furniture, Office Equipment for Thana    1,816.71  3.53       2.8           3.53
Level
Vehicle Maintenance at Thana Level              142.02        0.28       0.2   0.28
Utensils and Other Logistics for CNC Level per  979.20        1.90        1.5          1.90
Thana
Forms, Cards, Register Books etc. for Thana    1,227.30       2.38        1.9          2.38
Level
Supplementary Feeding to the Beneficiaries     6,211.80      12.06       9.7          12.06
Food Security Intervention to the Beneficiaries  9,430.48    18.31       14.7   0.85  17.46
Referral                                        758.36        1.47        1.2          1.47
Water and Sanitation at Thana Level             328.50        0.64       0.5   0.61   0.03
CNC Maintenance                                1,382.40       2.68       2.2   0.93   1.75
NGO Management Cost (10%)                      1,641.95       3.19       2.6           3.19
National Level Nutrition Services                  5,710.91      11.12        8.9          6.34                      4.78
Micronutrient Supplementation at Thana Level    955.97        1.86        1.5          1.86
Protection and Promotion of Breast Feeding      500.00        1.00       0.8                                     1.00
Activities
National Level Micronutrient Activities        4,254.94       8.26       6.6           4.48                      3.78
Sub-total: Service Component                  T  40,603.55       78.871     63.31  4.341 69.751                      4.78
- 42 -



Project Management and Institutional Development
Comnonent
Project Management and Development                   4,248.19       8.25        6.6   3.69   4.44                        0.12
Human Resources at PMU                          1,883.54        3.66        2.9   0.06    3.49                      0.12
TA DA for PMU level staff                         114.06        0.22        0.2   0.01    0.21
PMU Office Expenses                               136.35        0.26        0.2   0.26
PMU Level Assets/Equipment                        441.58        0.86        0.7   0.12    0.74
Vehicle Maintenance                                22.85        0.04        0.0   0.04
PMU Stationery                                     23.02        0.04        0.0   0.04
VAT                                             1,626.79        3.16        2.5   3.16
Monitoring & Evaluation and OR                       3,876.94        7.53       6.0            3.17                      1.4
Audit                                              15.60        0.03        0.0           0.03
Surveys/Studies                                 2,139.67        4.15        3.3           3.14
Operational Research                              720.00        1.40        1.1                                     1.40
Monitoring: Learning Component and Technical    1,001.68        1.95        1.6
Sutmort, including TSU                                   _
Training and BCC                                   11,965.57       23.23       18.7   0.46   13.23
Training at Central Level                         851.35        1.65        1.3
Training at Thana and Below Level               6,813.97       13.23       10.6          13.23
Behavior Change Communication                   4,300.25 X      8.35        6.71
Sub-total:                                       | 20,090.701      39.011      31.3|4.15  20.84            12.50         1.52
Proj Sunnort and Inst. Dev. COmDOnent            [                                                              I l  I
Total Cost                                       | 60,708.051    117.88[       94.7   8.49  90.59          12.50         6.30
Contingency                                 |   3,383.551       6.571       5.3   5.171  1.40
Total NNP Cost                                   | 64,091.751    124.461      100.0  13.661 92.00          12.50         6.30
Project Component                                   Local               Foreign           Total
-----------------US $ million----------------
Service Component                                       67.93               10.90             78.81
Project Support and Institutional                       33.62                 5.39            39.01
Development
Total                                                  101.56               16.29           117.85
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                4.42                0.00              4.42
Price                                                 2.22                0.00              2.22
Contingencies                                             6.64                0.00             6.64
Total
Total Project Cost                                     108.20               16.29            124.46
- 43 -



Annex 4
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Economic and Financial Analysis Summary
I.    Introduction. NNP funds are highly targeted at the most vulnerable citizens of Bangladesh for a
most basic human need of adequate nutritional status. Moreover, the returns to this investment go beyond
important nutritional objectives because the magnitude of malnutrition in Bangladesh is also at the heart of
the economic development. As will be quantified in this annex, low nutritional status increases the burden
of disease, limits the educational attainment of the children, and lowers the labor productivity of the labor
force.
II.    Linkages to Country Assistance Strategy and Economic and Sector Work. The Project and the
CAS: An important component of the World Bank's strategic vision for country strategy is a commitment
towards substantial reductions in malnutrition as a step in promoting human development and reducing
poverty. Besides directly improving nutrition status, NNP interventions would also improve health,
increase demand for family planning, and improve children's ability to learn and would, therefore,
contribute indirectly to the health, population and education sector objectives of the CAS. Benefits from
the project would disproportionately accrue to the poor. An improvement in the nutritional status of
women also would be expected to reduce gender inequality.
The Project and HNP Sector Strategy Paper(HNP SSP): The HNP SSP describes the objectives of HNP as
(i) improve the health, nutrition, and population outcomes of the poor; (ii) enhance the performance of
health care systems; and (iii) secure sustainable health care financing. NNP is designed to achieve the first
objective and provides some building blocks for the second objective. Community-based nutritional
services and an aggressive behavior change communication strategy will ensure that the poor receive the
bulk of the interventions and that the impact is lasting.
The Project and Nutrition Sector Work in Bangladesh: NNP design benefited from a recently completed
World Bank sector review on Nutrition in Bangladesh "Bangladesh: Breaking the Malnutrition Barrier -
Key to Development." The sector review identified nation-wide expansion of community-based nutrition,
reducing maternal malnutrition, reducing urban malnutrition, reducing moderate malnutrition in children,
and improving food security as five critical second generation nutrition problems that should be addressed
in the next ten years.
III.   Economic Justification. The role of the government was analyzed using standard public finance
criteria. Public investments in some interventions, especially those related to information dissemination and
community mobilization, are justified on the basis of a public good that would not be otherwise provided by
the market. NNP design recognized that Behavior Change Communication is at the heart of sustainable
improvements in the nutritional status for the majority of the population. As such, Behavior Change
Communication Interventions are built into both national and community level activities on the project.
Without public involvement in this area, markets would not produce or disseminate essential information.
Other investments, such as micronutrient and food supplementation, are primarily private goods. Markets
in Bangladesh have failed to produce and consume socially optimal levels of these interventions because of
sizable social externalities, asymmetric information, and a low demand due to poverty. There is
considerable empirical evidence of quantifiable extemalities to nutrition interventions (see McGuire 1996
for a summary of the empirical evidence). For Bangladesh, analysis of the social and economic cost of
malnutrition was first compiled in 1992 to aide in the development on the IDA-financed BINP project. To
- 44 -



assist in the development of NNP an update of the 1992 analysis was commissioned. The analysis
calculates the projections of malnutrition consequences in three areas: (i) The effects of malnutrition on
morbidity and mortality. (ii) The effects of malnutrition on intelligence and school performance. (iii) The
effects of malnutrition on labor productivity in manual labor.
Using recent survey data on nutritional status and labor productivity measures, the PROFILES Program
estimates include ( a complete set of estimates of the social cost of malnutrition and the expected returns to
NNP are included in Project Files):
*   Stillbirths caused in large part by malnutrition, assuming no change
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = 392,000 stillbirths
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = 1.07 million stillbirths
*  Deaths in children from 0 month through 59 months, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = 3.15 million deaths
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = 8.72 million deaths
*  Morbidity measures, assuming no change:
Diarrhea days in 0-59 month olds for 12 years (2001-2012) = 748.1 million days
Diarrhea days in 0-59 month olds for 30 years (2001-2030) = 1,504 million days
ARI'days in 0-11 month olds for 12 years (2001-3012) = 164.6 million days
ARI days in 0-11 month olds for 30 years (2001-2030) = 232.1 million days
*   Discounted lost potential productivity due to stunting in children, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = US $3.3 billion
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = US $9.5 billion
*  Discounted lost potential productivity due to Iodine deficiency in children, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = US $4.9 billion
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = US $12.8 billion
*  Discounted lost potential productivity due to Iron deficiency in children, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = US $1.1 billion
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = US $3.1 billion
*  Number of children repeating grade I due to malnutrition, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = 319,400 children
Over 30 years (2001-2030) = 952,800 children
* Cumulative IQ points lost in newborns due to malnutrition, assuming no change:
Over 12 years (2001-2012) = 235 million IQ points
Over 30 years (2001-2030) - 624 million IQ points
The nature of the interventions financed by this project will lead to targeting of resources at the most
vulnerable segments of society. Moreover, these interventions help break the vicious cycle of anemic and
mal-nourished mothers giving birth to low birth weignt babies. Interventions targeted at pregnant women
help improve gender specific health outcomes in Bangladesh. It is important to note that while the role of
the government is justified for financing the interventions, market analysis and sustainability concerns
indicated that contracting out service delivery to NGOs is preferable to direct public provision.
IV.   Economic Evaluation. The starting point for economic evaluations was an independent assessment
of the real costs of community-based activities under the pilot project (BINP). Two studies focused on
detailed costing (including community) the existing program in a subset of BINP upazilas. Findings from
this exercise provided the basis for cost-minimization analysis and the development of simulation models
for national expansion of community-based activities, both informing program design for NNP. The study
produced a number of relevant findings:
- 45 -



*   Food costs dominated all other line items, including community-donated resources. Food
supplementation costs accounted to 74 percent of total real costs, including community donated
resources, or 81 percent of total programmatic costs (excluding community donated resources). An
operational implication of these cost numbers is that most costs are variable and dependent on the
coverage of targeted populations.
*   Communities covered by BINP contribute in kind to the real cost of running the program. Estimates of
the market price equivalent of these in-kind contributions accounted for 8 percent of the total real cost
of the community based activities.
*   Almost all expenditures on community based services are procured locally (97 percent).
*   An assessment of beneficiary costs and willingness to pay found a low opportunity cost for the
beneficiaries under BINP, clear satisfaction with the quality of services, but a limited willingness to
pay for services with the exception of payment for services for growth faltering children.
*   Even though NNP is only one stage in national expansion of community-based activities, the basic
design has a legacy effect to the national program. Cost simulations were used to better understand the
long-term financial implications to the program and communities (see financial analysis).
From a Pilot to Nation- Wide, Cost Implications. Simulation models were developed and used to model
the expansion of activities in order to understand better the resource requirements and to provide input into
policy decisions. It is important to note here that at the early stages of expansion, the strategy is primarily
determined by the capacity in the country to mobilize, but important design decisions on the target
population, the amount of assistance, and the exit strategy have strong implications to the total cost picture
when the whole country is covered. Results from the cost simulation models include:
e If no exit or graduation strategy is defined, the ten year cost of community based services can be in
excess of US$766 million, with 78 percent of that used for food supplementation, 14 percent for other
programmatic costs and 8 percent community donated.
9 Of the food supplementation costs, supplementation for children represents 12 percent of the food
costs, while food for pregnant women and lactating mothers will cost 44 percent each.
e Defining a graduation, or exit, strategy from upazilas or from specific activities within upazilas will
have important long-term cost implications. Simulations showed significant cost savings from timed
phasing out of the more expensive food supplementation activities.
*   The speed of phasing in new upazilas, especially after training capacity has been developed, have
important implications to cost, and therefore, resource needs in the future. Given the limited amount of
domestic resources and external aid, having a time plan for resource needs can help resource
mobilization efforts.
*   Simulations of varying the content of supplementary feeding (lower caloric content and cost) show that
it is less significant in changing total costs than changing the duration of feeding and upazila coverage.
The use of cost data in simulation exercises led to design changes relating to the size of NNP, the
phasing strategy for new upazilas, the creation of an exit strategy for relatively expensive
community-based interventions, changes in food supplementation strategy, and options in operational
research strategies.
V.    Equity. As table 1 shows, health status measures in Bangladesh, including nutritional status, are
skewed against the poorest segments of the population. The poor have significantly higher mortality and
malnutrition statistics. While the inequity in-health measures is consistent with global data, it does point to
the need to better understand the relationship between poverty and malnutrition and to improve targeting of
important interventions.
-46 -



Table 1: Nutritional and Health Status b Wealth
Poorest 20%                                           - Richest 20%
Infant Mortality      96.3          98.7          97.0          88.7          56.6
per thousand births
Child Mortality      141.1         146.9         135.2         122.3          76.0
Per thousand births
Children Stunted      50.5          50.8          41.9          34.8          23.5
(%) Heieht for age
Children              60.3          53.5          49.2          41.8          28.1
Underweight (%1                                           I
Low Mother's          64.4          57.4          53.3          48.3          32.6
BMI f%)
Source: Demographic and Health Survey 1996/97
A household and community approach for understanding how best to improve the equity performance of
programs in health and nutrition is to consider the effect of poverty on the determinants of health and
nutritional outcomes (detailes in Project Files). The critical issue in this approach is how poverty limits the
ability of households to improve the nutritional status. Consumer consultations and other qualitative data
collections methods were used in Bangladesh to shed light on the constraints faced by poor and vulnerable
households. Project design was influenced by the use of qualitative data and the application of the
household perspective. Specifically, a recognition of the need for a more informed household led to an even
stronger focus on Behavior Change communication than the project pilot. Such investments will not only
improve equity in nutritional outcomes, but will increase the likelihood of sustainable results.
In addition to a focus on the needs of the poor and vulnerable by strengthening Behavior Change activities,
direct targeting is used to improve equity. While many investments in the health sector tend to favor the
rich, nutrition interventions, especially community-based services, are highly targeted at the poor. Two
types of targeting are used in NNP. First, by using nutritional criteria for eligibility for supplementation,
the poorest households, which are most likely to suffer from malnutrition, will be the main beneficiaries.
Direct targeting is also used in a sub-component of NNP, VGD, where services flow directly to extremely
poor households. The VGD/NNP component will use a two-level targeting mechanism. At the first level,
only the poorest of the poor households are selected based on land-ownership and income generation
criteria. The second level of targeting focuses on nutritional criteria for pregnant or lactating women and
children within the poorest households.
VI.   Finance Project preparation was informed by an assessment of the flow of funds for nutrition for
Bangladesh (including donor assistance) and an analysis of the long-term financial implications to country
wide expansion of community-based nutrition services. An assessment of the capacity for financial
monitoring and management provided the information needed to design and identify staffing needs for a
financial management system.
Project Cost Structure. As discussed earlier, targeting of project resources played an important role in
design. The cost structure reflects the project priority of reaching the most vulnerable in sustainable ways.
In resource terms, this is reflected with an emphasis on community-based services and on behavior change.
Of total project costs, 54 percent are earmarked for community based services delivered by NGOs.
Expenditures on Behavior Change and training will account for 19 percent of project costs.
Flow of Funds. Given the number of activities relating to Nutrition in Bangladesh, it was important to
understand the main sources and uses of funds. A flow of funds analysis looked at all nutrition related
activities regardless of funding source. In 1997/98, total expenditure in the Bangladesh nutrition sector
-47 -



amounted to Tk. 670 million or the equivalent of 0.03 percent of GDP (detailes in Project Files).
Absorptive Capacity. Another fiscal issue of concern is the ability of the sector to absorb new spending
given the experience of the slow start up of the pilot. The management assessment addressed most of the
implementation bottlenecks associated with the pilot, including slow disbursements, and proposed capacity
improvements that will increase the ability to contract with NGOs for service delivery. It is important to
note, however, that the absorptive capacity of the government and NGO implementers, especially in the
later phases of the national program, will be tested by the proposed expansion plan.
Incrementality: Since funds are fungible, it is important to ensure that IDA funds do not substitute for
GOB funds allocated for nutrition. The flow of funds analysis establishes a baseline for current spending
practices by the government and all bilateral and multilateral partners and allows future project supervision
to determine if GOB funds for nutrition continue increase over the life of the project. A source of concem
is that, unlike other health services, almost all GOB spending on nutrition, 98 percent, is from the
development budget and are therefore vulnerable to budget cuts.
* Annex 4 and the Economic Analysis in the PAD text follow guidelines provided in: (i) "Economic
Analysis in the Population, Health and Nutrition Sectors: A Conceptual Framework for Task Managers"
Alexander Preker, January 2, 1996, (ii) "Note: Basic Checklist for the Economic Analysis of Projects"
Robert Drysdale, February 22, 1996, (iii) "Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations," The World
Bank Operational Manual, OP/BP 10.04, September 1994, (iv) "Handbook on Economic Analysis of
Investment Operations," Pedro Belli, Jock Anderson, Howard Bamum, John Dixon, and Jee-Peng Tan,
LLC, May 1996, and (v) "Quality at Entry Guidance Questionnaire Summary Assessment Sheet."
-48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Years Ending (FY)
(US$ Million, base year 2001)
Implementation Period                       Operational Period
2001    2002    2003    2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs                        5.0    18.5    26.5    31.9
Recurrent Costs                         0.6      2.3     3.3      3.9
Total                                5.6    20.8    29.8    35.8
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                               73.9    73.9    73.9    73.9
Co-financiers                          15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1
Government                             11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
Central                              11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
Local
Total                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0 I
- 49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Procurement
For procurement of goods, financed in part or whole from IDA funds, the procedures outlined in the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. There will be no civil works under this project.
Consultants' services financed in part or in whole from IDA funds will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1977, revised
September 1997 and January 1999. The Netherlands has agreed to provide grant funds for co-financing the
Project, and IDA will act as the Administrator for the Grant Funds. For procurement of goods and services
financed under Trust Funds administered by the Bank, the Bank's Guidelines shall also apply. Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed to provide Grant Funds for specific activities through
parallel financing, which will be procured following CIDA's Guidelines. Table A summarizes the project items,
the related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Amounts in parenthesis show the amounts
financed by IDA. Table B summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and prior review.
Procurement Methods
Goods (US$13.20 million equivalent): Cross-country vehicles (US$0.37 million equivalent), multimix supplement
(US$0.24 million equivalent), medicines (US$1.26 million equivalent), iodine testing kits (US$0.35 million) and
training materials (US$ 1.39 million equivalent) will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures. Other goods, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.34 million will be procured following national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA.
These items include a limited number of vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, audiovisual and office equipment for
the PMU. Urgently required items estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract, in aggregate not to exceed
US$0.1 million, will be procured following national shopping procedures (i.e., by obtaining at least three price
quotations from qualified suppliers). UNISCALE [UNICEF-Electronic Scale] (US$3.2 million equivalent), and
micro-nutrients [Vitamin A Capsules, Vitamin A Liquid with Dispenser and Potassium lodate] (US$ 6.4 million
equivalent) will be procured directly from UNICEF under the provision of Clause 3.9 of the Procurement
Guidelines.
Services (US$88.7 million equivalent):
- Implementation of the project will be carried out by the Government in partnership with the
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Lead NGOs will be contracted for implementation of Area Based
Community Nutrition (ABCN) services. Such NGOs will be selected following Fixed Budget method
excepting the Financial Proposal in accordance with selection procedures described in the Project
Implementation Plan and copied in Project Files. The NGOs will be responsible for providing therapeutic food
supplements to the target malnourished group in about 32,000 community nutrition centers of 139 thanas.
The contracts with the NGOs will include provision for measuring equipment, motorcycles, bicycles and
operating expenditures. These lead NGOs, following their own procedures, will carry out all such
procurement. The NGO contracts will also include food security activities, including related micro-credit. A
total of about 45 contract packages will be made with the NGOs, spread over the duration of the project and
the total value of all such contract is estimated to be US$74.62 million equivalent;
*   The project will finance the Technical Support Unit (TSU) including its individual consultants (US$1.95
million equivalent), and learning components, executed through NGOs. NGOs for learning activities will be
selected following Fixed Budget Selection method. The short listing of these NGOs will however, be made
following the procedure applicable for the Lead NGOs for ABCN services.
*   Consulting firms will carry out various studies, surveys and performance audits (US$4.2 million equivalent)
and they will be selected on the basis of QCBS method;
*   Individual consultants for PMU (US$0.61 million equivalent) will be selected in accordance with Section V of
the Consultants' Guidelines;
- 50 -



*   The Project will finance following activities through agencies/institutions selected on a Single Source basis:
*   Independent monitoring and quality assurance (IQUAG) of the project (US$0.2 million equivalent) will be
carried out jointly by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) and Institute of Nutrition and Food Science
(INFS) through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be signed with the PMU. Helen Keller
Intemational (HKI), financed by USAID outside the project, will provide technical assistance through an
MOU.
Training
* Local training financed by the project will be conducted through the Institute of Public Health Nutrition
(IPHN), the Institute of Child and Mother Health (ICMH), National Institute for Population Research &
Training (NIPORT), and BRAC. Since IPHN, ICMH and NIPORT are government institutions, arrangements
for training by these institutions will be formalized through MOUs and they will follow the Bank's Guidelines
for any procurement. BRAC will be contracted on a Single-Source basis to support IPHN for management
training of the field level managers. BRAC has attained considerable experience of conducting nutrition
related management training for mid-level managers and played a pioneering role in community based
programmatic and technical and management related training for BINP under existing contract for field level
implementation of CBNC services.
*   For external training, (US$ 1.65 million equivalent over the project period), the PMU will contact the training
institutions directly.
*   The project will support incremental training costs and development package (US$3.95 million over the
project period) for the Vulnerable Group Development (VGD) Program through NGOs. Out of the total 139
NNP thanas BRAC is already working in partnership with the VGD Program in 99 thanas, therefore, BRAC
will be selected on a Single-Source basis for additional VGD services funded by NNP in these thanas. In
remaining 40 NNP thanas, the respective NGO partners will be selected from NGOs which are engaged in
ABCN activities in the area and who meet the existing principles of the VGD program required for
partnership with VGD, such as, having facilities and activities for inclusion of graduated VGD beneficiaries
into the development package for at least five years.
*   The project will finance Behavioral Change Communications (BCC) activities (US$6 million equivalent over
the project period) through UNICEF. UNICEF has long experience in nutrition and health related
communication in Bangladesh and the appraisal team has determined that UNICEF is the only viable option to
undertake the BCC activities in country.
* The operations research (US$1.5 million equivalent over the project period) through International Center for
Diarrhoeal Diseases and Research, Bangladesh (ICDDRB). The ICDDR,B is a unique global resource with an
established track record in nutrition research dedicated to the highest attainable level of scientific research
concerning the problems of public health, population and development from a multidisciplinary perspective.
The Center currently has over 200 researchers and medical staff from 10 countries participating in research
activities. In addition to hospital and community based services and research, the centre already works closely
with the Government of Bangladesh in both rural and urban areas, which aim at improving the planning and
implementation of reproductive and child health services.
*   Breastfeeding activities (US$1 million equivalent over the project period) through the Bangladesh
Breastfeeding Foundation (BBF). Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation (BBF), an entirely independent non
profit organization, is the only organization which has the necessary technical expertise and capability to
undertake activities for promotion of breastfeeding.
Operating Costs: Project will finance the operating costs of the PMU on a declining basis. In addition the project
will finance the operating costs of the Technical Support Unit (TSU).
Procurement Capacity Review: All procurement under the proposed Project will be handled by the PMU. It will
be headed by an Executive Director, who will be supported by two Directors (Director Administration and
Procurement, and Director Finance). They will be supported by coordinators and consultants. Since the proposed
Project Management Unit (PMU) has not yet been established, an assessment of their procurement capacity could
not be carried out. However, based on experience under the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project, the risks
associated with procurement are rated to be high. To mitigate the risks, it has been agreed that a Coordinator, with
- 51 -



adequate knowledge of the Bank's procurement procedures, will be hired to supervise procurement activities. S/he
will be supported by a Procurement Core Team (PCT). Provision has been kept under the Project for the training
of PMU staff, especially the PCT members, on Bank's Procurement Policies and procedures.
The following actions have been agreed by the borrower for the creation and functioning of the PCT:
*   selection and appointment of the Procurement Coordinator will be completed by the PMU within 30
September 2000;
*   the PMU will establish the PCT by 31 October 2000; and
*   comprehensive training of PCT members, and other officials involved in procurement, will be complete within
30 November 2000.
Procurement and Selection Planning: Projects Procurement requirements for Goods and Services have been
identifying by the Project Preparation Team (PPT). The first year's Procurement and Selection Plans have been
prepared. Procurement of goods and selection of consultants and NGOs for the first year of the project will be
carried out in accordance with the Plans approved. Prior to issuance of any invitation for bids for procurement of
goods and selection of services' contracts for the subsequent years of the project, the proposed Plans shall be
furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the respective Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and selection of all consultants and NGOs shall be undertaken
in accordance with Plans as shall have been approved by IDA and with the provisions of said paragraph I of the
respective Guidelines.
Use of Standard Documents: For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) is mandatory. For NCB procurement, the SBD for goods approved by the Association will be used. For
selection of consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, including standard contract forms, will
be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and Sample Form of Evaluation for Services will be
followed for submission of evaluation reports to IDA.
IDA prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods: IDA will carry out prior review of each of the first contracts following ICB and NCB procedures and all
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more. All other contracts will be subject to selective
post-review by IDA. For Such selective post-review of contracts below the thresholds will be carried out for
approximately up to five percent of the contracts awarded.
Services: IDA's prior review will be required for all services' contracts, with the exception that the contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less for firms, instead of the full technical evaluation report,
GOB will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals. For
individual consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience,
terms of reference (TOR) and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior
review. In addition, IDA's prior review will be required for TORs of all contracts irrespective of contract price.
Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with the Bank's Guidelines,
will be monitored on a continuous basis by IDA. As part of the Projects' planned mid-term review in CY2003, a
comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out. Based on this assessment, in
consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold and the procurement and selection methods.
Acceptabilitv of NCB:
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines:
*   tandard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
*   invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper and bidding
documents shall be made available to prospective bidders at least 28 days prior to the deadline for the
submission of bids;
*   bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
- 52 -



*   bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
*   foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to national
bidders;
*   qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents,
and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm deterrnined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance;
*   bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
*   all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents, with a bidder's bid security
applying only to a specific bid;
*   bids shall be opened in public in one place, preferably immediately, but no later than one hour, after the
deadline for submission of bids;
*   evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a
format and specified period agreed to with the Association;
*   a bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the prior
concurrence of the Association;
*   split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out;
*   when two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to determine any
evidence of collusion, following which (A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (B) if no evidence of
collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
*   contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid validity so that
extensions are not necessary, and extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional
circumstances;
*   extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Association for the first
request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks and for all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective
of the period;
*   negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
*   re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence; and
*   all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract documents, with a
contractor's or a supplier's performance security applying to a specific contract under which it was furnished.
Financial Management and Disbursement System:
MOHFW is the responsible ministry for ensuring that project funds will be spent for purposes intended and with
due care to economy and efficiency. Recognizing the need for improving its financial management systems, GOB
initiated the RIBEC project in 1989 with the assistance of expatriate and national consultants. Under RIBEC,
functional and economic classifications of budget and expenditure have been developed. GOB has selected
MOHFW to pilot the implementation of the RIBEC' recommendations.
Under the RIBEC project, a Management Accounting Unit (MAU) has been established within MOHFW's
organizational structure. This unit is responsible for the preparation of sectoral accounts, monitoring and analysis
of financial information and preparing reports for donors. To strengthen MAU's capacity to prepare timely and
reliable financial reports, the specific responsibilities of the Chief Accounts Officer (CAO) and Project Finance
Cell (PFC) for claiming reimbursement from counterpart funds, as well as from IDA, have been linked to the
organizational set-up of MAU. The MAU has initiated compilation of financial information through
computerization and preparation of various reports. Under the Health Population Sectoral Program (HPSP), MAU
has been preparing program monitoring reports and these are provided to the Bank quarterly along with the
withdrawal application.
An assessment of the project financial management system and actions agreed to be taken are given below:
*   An assessment MOHFW's capacity to prepare timely program management reports and perform intemal
control, accounting and reporting responsibilities relating to NNP indicates that no fundamental change in the
area of Financial Management has taken place even after the introduction of Sectoral program (HPSP) and the
related developments under RIBEC project. MAU has resource constraints and is not fully on line to prepare
timely sector accounts which is a priority area before it caters donor reporting requirements. MOHFW has yet
- 53 -



to resolve many implementation problems under HPSP. There are no arrangements within the MOHFW that
would address the specific needs of NNP including project financial management requirements.
*   Given the current resource constraint of MAU and its other operational problems, MOHFW's current
arrangement is not adequate to meet the Bank's project financial management requirements under the NNP. It
has been decided that a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the MOHFW and will be
responsible for managing program activities of NNP. A separate Finance Cell under the PMU will perfdrm
financial management functions, prepare quarterly reports/withdrawal application and provide information
relating to project expenditure and special accounts to the Bank. The Finance Cell will closely liaise with the
HPSP MAU for issues relating to financial information of the project and help in preparing sector accounts.
However, establishment of a Finance Cell in the PMU within the Ministry does not ensure the institutional
capacity building of the MOHFW. It has been agreed in principle that efforts will made to transfer the
technical expertise and experiences gathered from the implementation of NNP to MAU by FY 2004 to make
MAU a responsible unit for meeting donors financial management requirements.
Key aspects of the Financial Management System are as follows:
Project Accounting System: The Finance Cell of the PMU will be responsible for overall project financial
management and accounting. This unit will maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate
financial statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
-   Books of accounts for the project will be maintained by Finance Unit on double-entry bookkeeping principles.
Project accounts will be maintained using the computerized accounting system, which will be in place by July
2001.
-   Project accounting will cover all sources and utilization of project funds. This will include payments made to
and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies. All project-related transactions (whether involving
cash or not) will be accounted in the books of accounts. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the
Special Account maintained by PMU will also be included in the project accounting system. Funds received
from different sources Co-Financiers, World Bank and GOB will be identified separately and reflected in the
project accounts and financial statements.
*   A Chart of Accounts for the project has been prepared. The Chart of Accounts conforms to the classification
of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project
Appraisal Document, and project COSTING). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be captured in a manner
as to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure
categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
*   Project Financial Statements and financial reports will be fully based on the project books of accounts, and
substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
Internal Control System: The purpose of intemal control is to ensure that policies and procedure developed by
PMU are consistently adhered to. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) of the GOB has included an Intemal
Control System for the project that covers an organizational structure, proper segregation of functional
responsibilities, methods adopted within an entity to safeguard project resources and sound policies, procedures
and guidelines to achieve project goals and objectives.
Financial Reporting: The computerization process is expected to be completed by July 2001. By December 31,
2001, a decision will be taken in consultation with IDA whether this project will qualify for PMR based
disbursement starting from January 1, 2002. Quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) for the project will be
generated from the computerized financial management system and submitted to IDA regardless of this decision.
Finance Section of PMU will be responsible for the preparation of quarterly project monitoring reports and annual
financial statements of the NNP, on which annual audit will be carried out. Project Monitoring Reports will show:
(a) financial Statements with a summary of the project financial status (includes: Sources and Uses of Funds for'
each quarter', 'year to-date', and 'cumulative costs of the project to-date'; Usage of funds by Project Activities;
Cash Withdrawal; Cash Forecast; and a Special Account Statement); (b) Output Monitoring Report and (c)
Procurement Management Report.
- 54 -



Depending upon the computerization process and timeliness of report generation by the computerized system,
decision will be taken on switching over to PMRs based disbursement by December 31, 2001. In the interim
period, the PMU will submit manual reports for financial reporting on Sources and Usage of Fund for each quarter
and year to date and Procurement Management Reports. For reports, IA, 3A-3D formats will be used at the start
of the project. Additional reporting formats will be adopted.
Staffing: The MHOFW ensured that Finance Section of Project Management Unit (PMU) will have adequate
numbers of suitably qualified and experienced staff who understand the relevant accounting concepts and IDA
regulations. The organizational chart included in the PIP shows the number of required staff for the Finance Unit.
Key officials have been designed.
Flow of Funds:  All funds for the project will flow through PMU. PMU will provide fund and advances to
various implementing agencies using GOB resources to enable them to carry out the work and will subsequently
set-off these advances against expenditure incurred by these agencies. It was agreed that MOHFW will take
necessary steps (especially recruitment of key staff and computerized financial management system) to enable
conversion of disbursements to the PMR- based disbursement procedures. The target date for this conversion will
be December 31, 2001. Co-financing arrangements will include the Governement of the Netherlands funds that
are pooled with IDA funds and Canadian CIDA funds through a parallel financing arrangement.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes:   In view of the multiplicity of organizations involved in the
implementation of NNP, it is important that different Government Agencies and NGOs share the responsibility for
financial management with adequate coordination by the proposed Program Management Unit (PMU). The PMU
will have to co-ordinate with different NGOs and Government agencies for reliable and timely preparation of
Reports that will be required under the program. Agreement has been made during negotiation that the key staff in
the Finance Unit of PMU will be appointed immediately after negotiation. A standardized reporting format will be
prepared to capture source data for its compilation to prepare project-monitoring reports (PMRs) by February 1,
2001.
Financial Sustainability: Because NNP intervention is highly focused on the poor, total cost-recovery from
community-based services is limited. Thus, longer-term financial sustainability may only be achieved if the
community takes on more direct responsibilities for operating and management of activities by providing "in kind"
services. However, Government will still need to commit itself to incorporating core nutrition services into its
primary health care system. The community mobilization efforts of NGOs, along with the GOB's stated plans for
decentralization, provide concrete steps for placing management of later NNP projects into community hands.
Audits: The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of Audits, Foreign Aided
Projects, carries out the audits of foreign-aided projects. Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition, the Audit staff of the PMU will continuously,
conduct internal audit of the various entities involved for implementation of activities.
Operational Audits: Independent auditor will do an operational audit and may require the assistance of extemal
firm. IDA shall review the terms of reference and selection method of audit firms two months before the audit is
due. The costs for engaging extemal audit firms will be eligible for financing under the Project. The operational
audits will undertake a thorough inventory and physical verification of assets procured under the program. Two
such audits will be carried out, one prior to the mid-term review and the other one will be at the end of the NNP
project closing.
Areas for Improvement: Overall, the financial management system documented in the financial management
manual and in the PIP is satisfactory. However, there is still considerable scope for improvement. The recruitment
of the qualified professional staff with the necessary training and experience in the operation of modem financial
management systems would provide the necessary foundations for these improvements. Some of the areas for
improvement are: (i) training of financial staff in financial planning and management, operation of 'system-based'
- 55 -



internal controls and in basic computer operations (ii) ensuring that delegation of financial power exists at all
levels of project implementation (iii) making an exception to the government policy with regard to imprest cash
system that would allow smooth implementation of project activities at grass-root level. These as well as other
improvements will be addressed during project implementation on a continual basis.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
Recruitment of Key Staff: Recruitment of the two key financials (Director of Finance and Co-ordinator to Finance
& Accounts) will be completed immediately after negotiations to enable PMU to disburse funds from categories I
& 2 of Schedule 1; and all other staff will be in place by December 31, 2000.
Financial Management System: The design of the Financial Management System is substantially advanced. A
Financial Management Manual documenting the financial management system has been prepared. The
computerization of the FMS is expected to be completed by July 2001. Training of financial staff in computerized
financial management system will be completed by July 2001.
Risks
There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) unsatisfactory internal controls over
expenditures incurred by implementing agencies and (ii) delays in preparation of project management reports.
These risks and the risk-mitigation measures are outlined below. Both these risks are considered as manageable
due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their
potential for adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of project
supervision.
Internal control mechanisms for expenditures on activities managed by other agencies (NGOs and Govt. agencies)
need strengthening. Government Agencies (Ministry of Information, Fishery & Livestock and Food) operate on
government accounting system, and do not have fully satisfactory financial systems, budgetary controls and
qualified financial staff. This risk is mitigated by the following factors: (i) maintenance of project accounts by
PMU covering all implementing agencies; (ii) establishment of financial policies and procedures which would
govern project expenditures by these agencies, and incorporation of these policies in the Memorandum of
Understanding with these agencies; (iii) audit of expenditure of all implementing agencies including concurrent
audit, by the private auditor (Chartered Accountants); and (iv) provision to modify these arrangements based on
implementation experience.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of the
reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that PMU will be established by an Executive
Order of the government. Timely preparation and use of the project management reports, and satisfactory quality
of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the
substantial up-front actions which have been/are being taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial
management system; (ii) computerization of the financial management system; (iii) recruitment of key financial
staff to augment financial management capabilities. Pending the appointment of the qualified professional staff,
disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), but will
rather be made on the traditional disbursement basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method,
after the key professional staff have been recruited and the financial management system is satisfactorily operated.
- 56 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Elements        ICB          NCB           OTHER*          N.B.F.**           Total Cost
(including contingencies)
Goods
Training materials           1.47                                        0.06                 1.47
(1.41)                                                          (1.41)
Equipment/vehicle           0.45          0.42                           0.14                 0.87
(0.38)       (0.35)                                              (0.73)
Micronutrients                                           10.69           4.25                10.69
(6.44)                             (6.44)
Medicine                     1.58                                        0.06                 1.58
(1.52)                                                          (1.52)
UNISCALE                                                  3.38           0.18                 3.38
(3.20)                             (3.20)
Arsenic filter                                            0.68           0.65                 0.68
(0.03)                             (0.03)
Services
NGO contract /Consultants                                74.62            2.95               74.62
(70.04)                            (70.04)
BCC                                                       8.82           8.82                 8.82
Monitoring and Evaluation,                                5.86           2.67                 5.86
Operation researches and                                 (3.19)                              (3.19)
studies
Training                                                  1.65            1.65                1.65
TSU and learning                                          2.06            2.06                2.06
component
Breastfeeding activities                                  1.00            1.00                1.00
Audit                                                     0.03                                0.03
(0.03)                             (0.03)
Support for Food security                                 0.93           0.93                 0.93
activities
Other Recurrent
expenditure
Salaries, allowances and                                 10.81            7.09               10.81
other recurrent expenditure                              (3.76)                              (3.76)
Total                      (3.31)        (0.35)          120.57          32.51               124.45
(88.34)                             (92.00)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as"
N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit
* Micronutrient and UNISCALE will be procured from UNICEF. For BCC, UNICEF will be selected on Single Source basis; NGOs will be selected
following Fixed Budget and Single Source basis; agencies for audit, monitoring and evaluation will be selected following the QCBS methods.
** Agencies/Institutions for operations research, breastfeeding activities, and external training will be selected on single source basis. NGOs for
learning component will be selected under the Fixed-Budget method. GOB's contribution has also been incorporated.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure              Contract Value (Threshold)             Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to Prior Review
Categorv
Goods        First contract and all contracts equivalent of US$200,000  ICB          Prior Review
or more
Contracts below equivalent US$200,000            NCB                   First contract Prior Review all
other contracts Ex-Post Review
Contracts below US$20,000                        National Shopping     Ex-Post review
UNISCALE and Micro-nutrients valued at approx.   Direct Contracting    Prior Review of Draft Contract
US$9.6 million                                   (From UNICEF)
Services
Any value of contract for Finns, NGOs, Agencies  Single source         Prior review
QCBS, Fixed budget    Prior Review
Contracts equivalent US$ 100,000 or more for Firms,
NGOs, Agencies
QCBS, Fixed budget    Ex-post review
Contracts less than equivalent US$100,000 for Firms,
NGOs, Agencies
Equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more for Individuals  Individual           Prior Review
Equivalent to less than US$50,000 for Individuals  Individual          Ex-post review
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of IDA proceeds and the financing for the various categories of expenditures. Preparation of
withdrawal applications would be the responsibility of PMU. The closing date of the proposed project is December 31, 2004.
Disbursement estimates of IDA proceeds over a four year period is presented on page -iv- of the PAD.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Cate orv               Amount in USS Million                IDA Financing Percentage
IDA      Netherlands   CIDA
1. Goods                              13.20                             100% of foreign expenditure,
100% of local expenditure (ex-
factory) and 70% of other local
expenditure
2.  Consultants' Services, including  75.67                             100%
NGOs
3. Incremental Operating and           1.81                             100% in FY 2001 and FY 2002,
Maintenance costs                                                    and 80% in FY 2003 and 2004,
5. Unallocated                         1.32
TOTAL,                                92.00         12.54       6.30
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Until PMR-based disbursement is agreed upon, the traditional disbursement procedures will be applicable for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit. With each withdrawal application, IDA will require full documentation where contracts for (i) goods
exceed US$200,000 equivalent, (ii) consulting firms exceeds US$100,000 equivalent, and (iii) individual consultants exceeds
US$50,000. Expenditures below the above thresholds and expenditures for operating costs of PMU will be claimed through
SOEs.
Special account:
To ensure timely payments to NGOs, consultants, and suppliers a Convertible Taka Special Accounts (SA) will be established
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The PMU will be responsible for managing the Special
Account, including submitting withdrawal applications to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
equivalent to four months of estimated expenditures, which is estimated to be Tk. 383 million (US$7.437 million equivalent).
At the start of the project, the initial deposit to the Special Account will be limited to Tk. 191.5 million. The remaining
amount of the authorized allocation may be requested only after the cumulative disbursements reach the equivalent of SDR
11.0 million. If, agreement is reached on PMR-based disbursement, the allocations to the SA will be revised to reflect an
estimated 6 month forecast.
- 59 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Project Schedi. ie 0     Jf                        P_nd                       =
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              07/16/98                     07/16/98
Appraisal mission departure                      03/31/99                      11/22/99
Negotiations                                     05/31/99                     04/07/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/99                     07/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (US$ 310,000); BB Funds (US$ 214,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Spcality
Almad, Nilufar                    Participation Specialist
Chowdhury, Shahadat H.            Program Assistant
Correia da Silva, Jose Pedro      Legal
Haque, Aminul. M                  Procurement Specialist
Herbert, Wm. Bradford              Social Sector Team Leader
Jahangeer, Shirin                 Operations Officer
Powell, Cheryl M.A.               Program Assistant
Sayeed, Mohammad                  Disbursement Officer
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Legal
Yazbeck, Abdo S.                  Health Economist
Zannath, Suraiya                  Financial Management Specialist
Kabir, A.F.M. Iqbal               Task Leader
Berg, Alan D.                     Nutrition Spcialist (Peer Reviewer)
Kalanidhi, Subbarao               Monitoring and Evaluation (Peer Reviewer)
McLachlan, Milla M.               Nutrition Advisor
Chowdhury, Sadia A.               Public Health Specialist and NGO Participation
Heaver, Richard A.                Consultant (Management & Institutional Capacity)
Greene, James E.                  Consultant (Micronutrient and Management Specialist)
Levinson, F. James                Consultant (Inter-Sectoral and Household Food Security)
Schaetzel, Thomas T.              Consultant (Monitoring, Evaluation & Operation Research)
UKhan, Zahed H.                   Urban Specialist
- 60 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. National Nutrition Project, July 2004, Project Implementation Plan (PIP), prepared by the Program
Preparation Team (PPT), December 1999
2. Cost Estimates for National Nutrition Program, July 2000 to June 2004, MOHFW, GOB, April 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Bangladesh: Breaking the Malnutrition Barrier - Key to Development, December 3, 1999, HNP Unit,
SAR
2. Project Preparation Team, WB: Project Description of National Nutrition Program, June, 1999
3. Dr. James A. Greene; Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project: Management Issues and
Recommendations, November 24, 1998
4. Richard Heaver; Proposed National Nutrition Program: Management and Institutional Development,
May 30, 1999
5. Marcia Griffiths: Review of the IEC Component for BINP, December 1998
C. Other
1. Bart Burkhalter, Academy for Educational Development; Analysis of Social and Economic Cost of
Malnutrition and the Expected Retums to NNP
2. Barkat, Abul; HDRC; Study on NGO role in the National Nutrition Program
3. Billah, Kafee; DATAIIFPRI; An Analysis of Projects for lrproving Food Security: Representation,
Coverage and their Relationship with CBNC Activities Promoted by the NNP
4. Eshna Consulting Firm; Financial Management Recommendation for NNP, June 7, 1999
5. Greene, James A.; Study on linkages between NNP and HPSP
6. Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, University of Dhaka; Mid-term Evaluation, March 1999
7. Institute of Child and Mother Health (ICMH); Concept Paper: Institutional Capacity Building for
Developing a Referral System in BINP Thanas and Extrapolating the Experience for its Adaptation in
NNP thanas, April 25, 1999
8. Khan, Mahmud, ICDDR,B; Strategies for Local Resource Mobilization for NNP, July 27, 1999
9. Procurement of NGO Services to Assist in the Implementation of the National Nutrition Project (NNP)
10. Maxwell Stamp; Flow of Funds in the Bangladesh Nutritiorn Sector 1997/98 , October 1999
11. Maxwell Stamp; Cost Minimization Analysis of National Nutrtion Program, 1999
12. Shantha, Eva N.; Training Strategy for Nutrition Managers, Experts, Clinical Nutritionists and
Frontline Nutrition Workers and Preparation of a Strategic Plan for Management and Institutiopal
Arrangements for Training Management and Capacity Development
13. Smitasiri, Suttilak; Study on Behavior Change Commwuication (BCC) Strategy for NNP
14. Sen, Rita; Social Assessment Phase H for NNP
15. Sen, Binayek; Study on Policy, programmatic and Cost Implications of NNP -VGD Integration & on
NNP Targeting Mechanism, July 10, 1999
16. Streatfield, Peter Kim; A Model for Delivery of Nutrition Services in Urban Areas of Bangladesh;
Urban Component of NNP, June 1999
17. UNICEF:Yongyout Kachondham; Pre-assessment for BINP-MTR Mission of the Bangladesh
Integrated Nutrition Project, March 6-13, 1999. Submitted: March 30, 1999
*Including electronic files
- 61 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P058468         2000 Bangladesh                   Agrcultural Serv. Innovation & Reform      0.00        5.18         0.00        5.09       0.00       0.00
P009484         1996 Bangladesh                   Agriculture Research Management            0.00       45.84         1.37       23.38      23.47       0.00
P050745         1999 Bangladesh                   Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply            0.00       33.28         0.00       31.76       9.07       0.00
P009496         1995 Bangladesh                   Bangladesh Integrated Nutrtion              0.00      54.70         0.58       35.03      20.27       0.00
P009549         1996 Bangladesh                   Coastal Embankment Rehabilitabion           0.00      63.37         0.00       15.88       3.61       7.17
P009482         1997 Bangladesh                   DHAKAWATERISAN. IV                          0.00      89.85         0.00       58.28      38.23       0.00
P009524         1999 Bangladesh                   Dhaka Urban Transport                       0.00     176.43         0.00      164.01       8.74       0.00
P049790         1999 Bangladesh                   Export Diversification                     0.00       32.38         0.00       27.71       0.85       0.00
P009555         1993 Bangladesh                   Female Secondary School                     0.00      67.53         0.00       15.12      13.10      10.04
P044811         2000 Bangladesh                   Financial Institutions Development          0.00      47.43         0.00       47.43       0.00       0.00
P009470         1992 Bangladesh                   Forest Resources Management                 0.00      50.25         3.29        9.67      11.30       4.15
P009468         2000 Bangladesh                   Fourth Fisheries                            0.00      28.32         0.00       27.37       0.00       0.00
P009533         1995 Bangladesh                   Gas Infrastnucture Development              0.00     113.70         0.00       53.50      54.51      55.87
P037857         1998 Bangladesh                   HEALTH AND POP PROGRAM                      0.00     253.85         0.00      181.33      -0.17       0.00
P041887         1999 Bangladesh                   Municipal Services                          0.00     137.61         0.00      131.32     132.59      0.00
P009560         1996 Bangladesh                   NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                       0.00        9.76         0.00        5.69       2.10       0.00
P044789         1998 Bangladesh                   PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                         0.00      229.19         0.00      227.91     114.82      0.00
P040985         1997 Bangladesh                   Poverty Alleviation                        0.00       98.83         0.00       13.52      -0.06      0.00
P009550         1998 Bangladesh                   Primary Education Development               0.00     150.89         0.00      144.38      35.80      0.00
P009545         1998 Bangladesh                   River Bank Protecton                        0.00     152.64         0.00       32.18       9.60      13.39
P040713         1998 Bangladesh                   SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.                        0.00       11.47        0.00       10.03       4.55       0.00
P009465         1994 Bangladesh                   Second Road Rehabilitation &               0.00      223.38         0.00       69A5      -14.64       0.00
P009518         1997 Bangladesh                   Maintenance                                0.00      146.08         0.00       74.03       4.61      19.59
P009540         1991 Bangladesh                   Second Rural Roads & Markets               0.00       48.95         0.00       12.82       8.34       6.93
P037294         1999 Bangladesh                   Improvement                                 0.00     278.58         0.00      266.64      22.23       0.00
Third Inland Water Transport
Third Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance
Total:        0.00     2529.49        5.24      1683.53    502.92     117.14
- 62 -



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1980/98            IPDC                           10.00    0.00     1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.05    0.00
1985/95            IDLC                            0.00    0.00    0.15     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.15    0.00
1991               Dynamic Textile                 1.86    0.00    0.00     1.48    1.86    0.00      0.00    1.48
1997                                               0.00    0.00    0.65     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.65    0.00
Total Portfolio:        11.86    0.(0     1.85    1.48     1.86    0.00     1.85    1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998               GRAMEEN PHONE                    20.00      2.50      0.00      0.00
1998               KHULNA                            0.00      3.30      0.00      0.00
1998               LAFARGE SURMA                    35.00     10.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commnitment:       55.00     15.80      0.00      0.00
- 63 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Project
P'OVERTY and SOCIAL,                                              SOUth    iow-
111*191d.sh      Asia  Inoom.         Development diamond'
Poplation, mid-year (milliono)                          1256.      1,305;   .3,545                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, (13$                        350        430i      620
GNP fAtlaaT method, US1$ billionop)                      44.0        555      1;844
Average amnrual growth. 1992-98
Population (%)                                            16         1.8        1.?
Laborfcwce(%)                       2.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  jg ~~~ GNP                                Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year, a   1a, 19,2-8)                                       petpimr
capia                          enrollment
Poverty (% of popuMlaton Weow ne;lna  foe1 ifne            36
Urban population (3  f oa poul.fio20                                  27        31
Life expectancy -at birth (yoeer4)                         6i;        62         W     3
Child  alnutrtion 31 of hild ON,udr5               68         53          ..Access to safe water
Access to sttfi water (1of popusSO)                       84         81        74
0Illteracy (%of popualatin age15-+)                        47         49~    32
Gross primarty enrollment Pk Of sooagppt/ti)                         10         o                     Bangladesh
Male                                                     93        109       113.: -Low-income group
Femnale                                                 100         go:      to
KF-Y ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDs
197*k    919881     `1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (us$ billions)                              13.2     25.8       41.0       4.
Groiss domiestic investmentlOP                  17.1     18.4       21.6       22i2
Exports of goods and ~ervlcajlGDP                4.1      5.8       12,4       138                       Tad
Gross domestic ~svings/GDP                       7.8      9.4       15,3       17.1
Gross national savJngslGDP                       $A,     11.        19.4       21 A0
Current account balgricefGDP                    -2.9     -4.         2.22      .1.2      Dmsi
Interetpayl   ns/O                               0.3      08         0,4        0.4                                    Investment
paynlants/GOP                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Savings
Tital debt(GDP                                  23.4      41.4      36.        38.3
TOWa debtstervie/xports                  .      20.8     22.1        10,8       ., I
Prasentyvaue of debt/GP                           ..     ..         21.1
Preent:vle~  debt/exports                       .         ..     129,8
Indebtedness
1978.88  1*88-99  lOg?  ~~1994   190498.2
(aerag ~annual growth)
GOP                                    4,7       4.7      53         5.         4.7   .Bnlds
GNP per capita:           ~2.3                  3.1       3,8        4,2        3.1                    Low-income Group
Exports ofgoods and services           5.4     14.4      14.5       14,3        68s
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997       1998      Growth of Investment and GOP I(%)
(31 of GDP)
Agrictulture                                    41.6      29.8      23.1       22.2
Industry                                       21.4      22.4       27.1       27.9     I
Manufacturing                                 15.8      14.8       17.3      18.1 
Services                                        37.0     47.8       49.8    149.9           ________________
Private consumption                            90.8      87.2       80.1       77.6             93   94   95   96   97   55
General government consumption                   1.4      3.3        4.6        4.4                     G01     -'GDP
Imports of goods and services                   13.4     14.7       18.7       18.9
(average annual growth)                     17881988-98             1997      1998      Growth of exports and imports I(%)
Agriculture                                      3.0      2.6        6.1        3.0    00 
Industry                                         4.3      6.9        5.6        8.3     4O.
Manufacturing                                  2.9       7.0        6.2       9.2
Services                                         6.1      4.7        4.7        4.3    2059                             97    9
Pritvate consumption                             4.9      4.0        4.1        6.7
General government consumption                   5.1      5.8        6.0       -0.3             93          9     9     97    s
Gross domestic investment                        2.9      6.0       10.0       11.2     209Eprs                 1* Iprs
Imports of goods and services                    4.6     10.5        2.0        0.6                   Esol 1mot
Gross national product                           4.9      4.8        5.5        5.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Banzladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978    1988      1997     1998      Inflaton (%)
Domestic prices                                                                 1
(%Y chanige)                                                                   1 
Consumer prices                              ..      6.3       2.5      7.0     8
Implicit GDP deflator                      25.7      7.6       1.0      i.3       >
Govemment finance                                                               2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             O
Current revenue                              ..    8.9         9.3     '9.6            93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                       ..       ..       2.2      2.2                  GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -5.3        4.3     -4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1978    1988      1997      1998     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   1,232      4,427    5,172    8,000
Jutegoods                                   ..      81       116      108
Leather and leather products                ..    147        196      190    6,000 .
Manufactures                                ..    825      3,755    4,i31     4                            _    *
Total imports (cif)                          ..   2,986      7,120    7,'25    4m
Food                                        ..     704       197      `7'3    2.000           9    5 S    ? S
Fuel and energy                                    272       361     'i06
Capital goods                               ..  1,090      2,000    1, i42       0o
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      58        102      ,09          92   a   94  95  96
Importpriceindex (1995=100)                  ..      90       100       ^0i                rExports     lImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      64        103      108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1978    1988      1997    1198       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               572    1,486     5,083    5,1379    o
Imports of goods and services             1,431    3,252     7,677    8,049         l    E E
Resource balance                           -859   -1,765    -2,594   -2,i170'   *1       fl
Netincome                                   -32    -133       -107     -100    _2
Net current transfers                       506     788      1,770    2,.)17
Current account balance                    -385   -1,110      -909     -.520
Financing items (net)                       338    1,255      589      5351
Changes in net reserves                      48    -145       320      -131     s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS$ millions)      ..       ,.    1,719    1,739
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)            15.1    31.2      42.7     15.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978    1988      1997     1Ei98
(US$ millions)                                                                  Compollffon of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      3,083   10,692    15,125   16,376
IBRD                                       55      66        38        36                F: 91    A.36
IDA                                       608    3,188     5,701    6,163
Total debt service                          146      504       705      683                   _       _
IBRD                                        4       5         7         6        E:                          :,163
IDA                                         4      36         96      105
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0     824        736      589
Official creditors                        414     786        326      359
Private creditors                          12      -21       -28      -23
Foreign direct investment                   0       3       -116      252                _q       l      C 42
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0               D: 4.396
Worid Bank program
Commitments                               163     221       460       646     A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             103     291        299      347     8- IDA    D-Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        0       10        59       66     C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                  103     281        241      281
Interest payments                           8       31        44       45
Net transfers                              96     250        196      236
Development Economics                                                                                            1/31/00
-65 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Implementation Schedule
BANGLADESH: National Nutrition Program
*   By August 2000, 2001, and 2003, the PMU will obtain a list of Lead NGOs for ABCN activities from
the NGO Affairs Bureau (NAB) for Phases I, II, and Ill expansion, respectively; with contracts signed
by January 2001 and 2002 for Phases I and II, and by May 2003 for Phase III;
*  Within two months after achieving full coverage of core nutrition services under ABCN in a given
upazila, a committee for community selection of preferred agro-based food security activities will have
convened its first meeting, and by three months after achieving full coverage, community selection will
be complete and implementation will begin;
*   By June 2001, expression of interest will be sought from NGOs to conduct Vulnerable Group
Development (VGD) activities in non-BRAC VGD; by September 2001, NNP-VGD activities
contracts will be submitted to IDA for clearance; and by October 2001 tripartite contracts will be
signed by the PMU, the Ministry of Women and Children's Affairs, and implementing NGOs;
*  By May 2000, advertisement for bids for baseline/mid-term/end-of-project evaluation surveys will be
published and a contract, with IDA-approved TOR, signed by November 2000;
*   By June 2001, NGOs will have been contracted for implementing Year 1 learning activities; and by
June 2001 a contract will have been signed for survey/study for assessing and monitoring the learning
activities;
*  By August 2000, MOUs for IQUAG activities to be conducted by INFS, BBS, and HKI will have been
cleared by IDA, with signing by August 2000;
*   By September 2000, a draft contract submitted for management and admninistration of NNP Operations
Research will be cleared by IDA, and a contract will be signed with the ICDDR,B for management of
Operations Research activities by October 2000; by January 2001, a detailed Operations Research plan
will have been developed by ICDDR,B and approved by the PMU;
*  By May 2000, an indent will have been placed to UNICEF/appropriate for procurement of
UNISCALES/appropriate scales, vitamin A, and potassium iodate; and by August 2000 a contract
with UNICEF for management of BCC activities will have been cleared by IDA, with a contract signed
by September 2000;
e   By August 2000, MOUs with IPHN and NIPORT (training technical assistance) will have been cleared
by IDA, with signing by September 2000; and by August 2000 contracts with BRAC and IPHN for
Management Training support will be cleared by IDA with contracts signed by September 2000;
*  By October 2000, an MOU with the Institute of Child and Mother Health for developing referral
services, and with NIPORT for monitoring of referral training, will have been cleared by IDA, and by
December 2000 these MOUs will have been signed; by February 2001, a protocol for referral will be
developed and approved by the PMU;
*  By December 2001, phase wise exit strategy will have been developed and cleared by IDA; and, based
on BINP end-of-project survey results concerning the "exit readiness" indicators listed in the NNP
Project Implementation Plan, the PMU will start implementation of the strategy in the first six upazilas
of BINP;
*  By December 2000, based on the Transition Plan outline prepared before Negotiation, the PMU and
the BINP Project Office jointly will have finalized an implementation plan for B1NP transition into
NNP, and subsequently will execute it;
*  By November 2000, the BCC-Training Advisory Group will be functional, and the BCC and Training
Networks will be created and have held their first meeting;
*  By March 2000, a staff development plan will have been developed; by July 2000 a PMU staff
- 66 -



selection committee will have been established, and its TOR developed; by July 2000 PMU physical
facilities will have been hired by December 2000 all PMU office equipment will have been installed;
and by December 2000 all PMU staff will be in place, including the Senior Project Advisor;
* By July 2001 a computerized financial management system will have been developed and installed, and
staff trained in its use; by December 2001, the PMU will start PMR-based financial reporting;
*  Two operational audits will be carried out during the lifetime of the project, (i) prior to mid term
review (ii) at the end of the project closing. Cost of these audits, if contracted to external firms, will be
financed from the project, IDA will review the TOR and the selection method;
*   Immediately after Negotiations, 5 key positions namely, Executive Director, Director of Administration
and Procurement, Director of finance, Coordinator, Procurement, and Coordinator Finance and
Account, will be appointed;
*   PCT will be established by October 2000, and training of PCT members completed by November,
2000.
*  At three years after effectiveness, a management review of the PMU and the MOHFW will take place
to plan for integration of PMU functions into the MOHFW; and
*   By December 2000, all TSU staff will have been contracted with TOR and CV cleared by IDA.
Mid-Term Review
o  Policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis being
maintained in accordance with the indicators agreed upon for carrying out of the Project and
achievement of the objectives; by October 31, 2002, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a
report furnished integrating the results of the monitoring ard evaluation activities performed on
progress achieved with recommended measures;
:  By January 31, 2003, or such later date as IDA shall request, report reviewed and, thereafter, all
measures taken required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and achievement of the
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report (mentioned above) and IDA's
views on the matter.
- 67 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24206R1
( '^A Sk B<BANGLADESH
Thkukrgoor                                                                                        _______-  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
*IKJR                NIyPr AMARI \                                                                  -   - PH-AAA  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
Nilphom-ri    CNIRIr_                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DINA,PUR
0   D i- ip u ,  RA 0 R o g p r K i B
0 Dinoipur      RA,NGPUR         KIJI s  7MILES   o                                             25          5s             75
JGibondh      Y
0                                  KILOMETERS   o         25       50      75      100
GABANDI-
F'               JOYPURHAT
NAOGON         0.Joypurhat                                                                S-o;AMGA a
OSerp.r0
J  IRNAJSHAHIQ                 O Bogra   AMALPUR                                                                        OsylhoT
j  N0s9 iGANJ                      BOGRA                                W \<   oMy.ensingh          t S   Y    L   H     E   T
(Nowob  ( i  j:      MYMENSINGH
>  RAISHAHI                     SerOig9n j   r  {,    ,' j0Kishorg-j;   HAB3GANJ                               0 M-uMi Bozoc
RAJSHAHI     NATORE                  HK1N                  A           K  A                               MOULVI AZAR
ON,lt-r       SERAJGANJ                                        KISHORGANJ         CHbBS
A  T-ngaii$                                           
                    i> ) t(^           ~~~~~~~~GAZIPUR           /r 
INDIA           \          <Pabna                 f   a                   oGazipJr bARSI    BARIA
j KUSH      t       i        M oo,k         DHAKA                        Barb                    INDIA
Meherp-r                                                           A N K AR YNJ  i'              
L     Choodoego AJ                    BARIDPU                                                                                 ' F.
JHEUAD NGA)JeaDAH        _           F       r       h'U                COMILLA           
Maoguo       FRID                shigoj  -             Cmllo
,} ~~~~~MAGUIRA                           g1NIDPUR \w 
g~~~~~~~:                                                                                      K Nr$   Iaaius;    hnprrHAGRACHHARI 
WO.ueDU ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ARA T.' :n                                    i, 
0je.soo e  ONCh                                          edCu
or                     Fen eo n   
The eel                                                                 BAYs prpoo           stEGA   \IZ
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,. BAY OF.                                                                    S\ 
The World Book Group,K ,!RA   KUIN                   BA
Th ..p              EEGA p,p..       K                                              H
ooy odpoet0 th. DeZM                                                                                                                                          988t kh,l
ory  ocetooce. of oc
bony.dgre..tath e.
BA                                                                                           Cc-'s 0~~~BY  F ENA
MAY1 988



