Report No. PID6957
Project Name                     Bangladesh-National Nutrition Program (@)
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Population, Health & Nutrition Adjustment
Project ID                       BDPE50751
Borrower(s)                      GOB
Implementing Agency
MOHFW
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
Contact Person: Secretary, MOHFW
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 3, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 22, 1999
Projected Board Date             2000
1. Country and Sector Background
During the preparation of the recently completed sector report on
malnutrition, a number of sector issues were identified. One of the main
findings of the sector report indicates that availability of food is not
always the chief cause of malnutrition. For example, in Bangladesh about
50% of malnourished children live in households which have sufficient
food. The underlining causes of malnutrition, therefore, tend to be
associated not just with food security but with behavior, social
attitudes, and a lack of understanding and knowledge of nutritional
needs. The sector report also highlights a number of sector issues
associated with weak institutional and management capacity. The main
structural and institutional issues of the nutrition sector have been
recognized by policy makers and decisions have been taken to address
them. For example, in areas such as behaviour change, the Government's
policy is to be a purchaser of services rather than attempting to deliver
those services through its own structure. In this respect, most
activities under NNP-I will be contracted out to qualified NGOs and
managed by local communities which will be guided by inputs from
beneficiaries. Some of these services will include introducing proper
child and maternal self caring practices, promoting and protecting
breastfeeding practices, and providing counseling to women and adolescent
girls. In respect to distributing micronutrients to the population at
large, the Government strategy is to rely on the Ministry of Health for
contracting and monitoring distribution. Government's strategy to
purchase services from NGOs at the community level and using the Ministry
of Health to meet the needs of delivering micronutirents is sound.
2. Objectives
The National Nutrition Project (NNP-I) will be the first of a series of
investments which will support the Government's 15 year vision to extend
community nutrition services to the entire country. This vision is
outlined in the Government's National Nutrition Program and is further
developed in the National Plan of Action. The goal of the national program
is to improve nutritional status to the extent that malnutrition will no



longer be a public health problem. NNP-I will build on experiences and
lessons learned from the recently completed sector work and the on-going
IDA supported Bangladesh Integrated Nutritional Project (BINP). The
development objective of NNP-I is to significantly reduce malnutrition,
especially among poor women and children. This will be achieved through
the adoption of new changes in behavior and appropriate use of nutrition
services which will be increasingly managed by local communities. NNP-I
will establish important links with the Ministry of Education by
incorporating general nutrition knowledge in the school curricula, and
increasing the coverage of the Ministry of Women and Children's Affairs'
Vulnerable Group Development Program to the poorest households in the
country.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Identification, preparation and appraisal of NNP-I have benefited from
extensive technical support and analytical work from the World Bank and
UNICEF. This includes: i) a 1999 Nutrition Sector Review to identify gaps
in ongoing sectoral activities and key issues for nutrition policy reform;
ii) operational support and technical guidance to several consultant
studies undertaken for NNP-I preparation, and iii) sectoral specialist
technical assistance by World Bank and UNICEF staff and consultants.Based
on their large-scale operational involvement and institutional strength in
the nutrition sector, the World Bank and UNICEF are able to assist
Bangladesh to access international experience and "best practices" from
other major nutrition projects.The GOB would be unable to finance a
program as large as the National Nutrition Program on its own, nor would
any other donor be able to assist GOB on the necessary scale. The World
Bank has, moreover, already expressed its readiness to assist GOB with the
coordination of donor and domestic funding for NNP-I.
4. Description
The Project consists of two components: A Service Component and the
Project Support and Institutional Development Component. The Service
Component is comprised of two sub-components: i)Area-Based Community
Nutrition and ii)National Level Nutrition Services. The Project Support
and Institutional Development Component is comprised of three
sub-components: i)Project Management and Institutional Development; ii)
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Operations Research; and iii) Training and
Behavioral Change Communications.(a) Services Componenti. Area-Based
Community Nutrition (ABCN) Services Sub-ComponentThere are three main
causes of malnutrition in Bangladesh: behavior, poor health and poverty.
This sub-component, which focuses at the community level, will: i) improve
behavior practices in critical areas such as breastfeeding, timely
introduction of solid foods, and increase food intake during pregnancy;
ii) increase awareness and treatment of malnutrition in the primary health
care system; and iii) provide food security and income generating
activities to the poorest households in the community. ABCN will be
implemented by NGOs. ii. National Level Nutrition Services
Sub-ComponentThrough aggressive marketing, many poor and uneducated women
believe breast milk substitutes are healthier and more nutritious then
breastmilk. As a result they often prefer these substitutes and thus lose
the natural benefits of mother's milk . In addition, because of their
poverty level, they often dilute the mixture to a point where any possible
nutritional value is minimized. The result is increased malnutrition and
water-borne diseases among infants. The National Level Nutrition Services
- 2 -



sub component addresses this concern by funding the Bangladesh
Breastfeeding Foundation which promotes and protects breastfeeding.
Another contributing factor to malnutrition in Bangladesh is micronutrient
deficiency (vitamin A, iron, and folic acid). This sub-component will
provide funding for national micronutrient supplements. Additionally, the
sub-component will provide technical assistance to draft legislation on
fortification and food quality standards, determine the feasibility of
fortifying key foods, and assess the viability of social marketing as a
means of distributing micronutrient supplements. The sub-component will
be implemented by the Ministry of Health in partnership with other
agencies such as UNICEF.(b) Project Support and Institutional Development
Componenti. Project Management and Development Sub-ComponentProgram
Management and Development activities for the effective implementation of
NNP-I will include i) the establishment, within the MOHFW, of an NNP-I
Program Management Unit (PMU), ii) an NGO contract management system, iii)
effective linkages between NNP-I service delivery and management systems,
and those under the Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP) and iv)
strengthened management capacities of communities and NGOs.ii. Monitoring
and Evaluation Sub-ComponentThe Monitoring, Evaluation, and Operations
Research sub-component will: i) support an efficient project MIS system
under the PMU to provide service delivery and nutritional status data
required for management decision-making; ii) establish an Independent
Quality Assurance Group (IQUAG) for ensuring quality of project service
data, conducting research investigation of extracted service records,
executing special studies, and contracting monitoring of nutrition-related
behaviors and social assessments; iii) contract baseline, mid-term and
final evaluations under the oversight of the IQUAG; and iv) contract
project-based operations research. A Technical Support Unit will oversee
monitoring and implementation of learning activities for testing of
supplementation strategies and piloting of CHT and urban slum area
interventions.iii. Training and Behavioral Change Communications
Sub-ComponentTraining and Behavioral Change Communications (BCC) will be
integrated under NNP-I, with coordination and management for both carried
out by the PMU through a Communication and Training group, headed by a
portfolio manager under the Coordination and Technical Unit. Training
activities will develop a core group of: i) nutrition managers; ii)
nutrition experts at the national level familiar with the realities of
field operations; iii) clinical nutritionists at secondary and tertiary
level hospitals; and iv) front-line nutrition workers capable of social
mobilization, skilled in behavior change communication, assessment of
nutrition situation and analysis of underlying causes, and capable of
taking appropriate action based on such analyses. Operating at the
national and field levels, BCC activities will: i) foster positive changes
in maternal infant and child caring practices; ii) increase the demand for
and the utilization of available health nutrition and food security
services in the community; iii) help develop the capacity of the community
to assess, analyze and address the malnutrition problem; iv) strengthen
union- and thana- level capability to train, supervise and support
community workers in their BCC tasks during project implementation; and v)
advocate for policy support to provide and improve nutrition services.
Additional support will be provided by a BCC-Training Advisory Group (see
Annex 2 for duties) and technical BCC and Training networks for nutrition
will assist with the review and ongoing refinement of nutrition-related
BCC and Training activities.
A. Services Component:
-3-



a. Area-Based Community Nutrition (ABCN) Services
b. National Level Nutrition Services
B. Project Support and Institutional Development Component:
a. Project Management and Development
b. Monitoring and Evaluation
c. Training and Behavior Change Communication
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               13.7
IBRD
IDA                      92
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY       6.3
GOVERNMENT OF THE
NETHERLANDS              12.5
Total Project Cost       124.5
6. Implementation
(a) Coordination and oversightThe executive responsibility for the
implementation of project activities will initially lie with a
newly-created Project Management Unit under the MOHFW with adequate
authority, high-caliber staffing and flexible operations. Activities in
the community will be implemented through "lead" NGOs under contractual
arrangement with the PMU. Lead NGOs may, in turn, sub-contract with
smaller "partner" NGOs for field implementation, assisting them in
capacity building. The PMU will maintain close linkages with the content
and delivery strategy for the HPSP Essential Services Package as described
in Annex 2. At the thana level and below, linkages will be established
through the participation of the MOHFW's designated Thana Nutrition
Coordinators, Family Welfare Visitors, and Field Workers. The functions of
the PMU eventually will be integrated into the MOHFW.Communities play an
important role in coordination and oversight through "Nutrition Management
Committees" at the village, thana, and district levels. Each committee
will consist of community leaders (especially women at the village level),
local government officials, project staff, and representatives of the
implementing NGOs.Collaborative arrangements will exist for Behavioral
Change Communications materials development and activities (HPSP
Behavioral Communications unit), breastfeeding promotion and protection
(Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation), micronutrient fortification (the
Institute of Public Health Nutrition and the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation), operations Research (ICDDR,B), independent
quality assurance for field data (Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, the
Institute of Nutrition and Food Science at Dhaka University, and Helen
Keller International), and training (the IPHN and the National Institute
for Population Research and Training, the Institute of Child and Mother
Health, and BRAC). UNICEF will provide important collaboration for BCC,
operations research, salt iodization, and general technical assistance.(b)
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements (see Annex 6
for detail)The PMU will be staffed by adequate numbers of
suitably-qualified and experienced staff conversant with relevant
accounting concepts and IDA regulations, and will gather required
information from other implementing agencies/organizations to prepare
consolidated financial statements for the project and maintain
consolidated accounts for all project expenditures. A computerized
- 4 -



financial reporting system will be established which will provide
quarterly financial management reports according to a standardized
financial reporting format. Depending upon the computerization process and
timeliness of report generation by the computerized system, a decision
will be taken concerning switching over to Project Monitoring Report (PMR)
based disbursement by FY 2002. In the interim period, the PMU will submit
manual reports. For statutory purposes, the Comptroller and Auditor
General, through the Directorate of Audit-Foreign-Aided Projects, carries
out audits of foreign-aided projects. The project financial statements and
Statements of Expenditure will be audited annually in accordance with
International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions standards, and
the audit report will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, a private auditing firm will
carry out two operational audits, one prior to mid-term review and the
other one prior to NNP-I closing. IDA will review the terms of reference
of these operational audits prior to award of contracts, and their costs
will be included in the project costs and be eligible for financing under
the project.(c) Monitoring and evaluation arrangementsMonitoring and
evaluation under NNP-I will be coordinated in two ways: project MIS under
the Field Implementation Cell of the PMU, and independent monitoring, with
responsibility to coordinate evaluation surveys and ensure comparability,
under an independent monitoring function. Project MIS will operate
similarly to the BINP monitoring system, which reports monthly a set of
key operational indicators of service delivery performance and nutritional
status. The IQUAG, led by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics and
associated with the Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, Dhaka
University and Helen Keller International, will conduct i) routine quality
assessments to ensure accuracy of project MIS data, ii) research studies
of extracted MIS field records, iii) independent nutritional surveillance
(funded separately by USAID), and iv) special studies as needed. The IQUAG
will contract ongoing monitoring studies of nutrition-related behaviors
and social assessments. The project will be evaluated through a
combination of: i) baseline surveys as the project expands, ii)
monitoring of activities, outputs, and outcomes during implementation, and
iii) follow-up surveys. Formal evaluations will be conducted during the
mid-term review and at the end of the project
7. Sustainability
Sustainable Political Commitment: International experience has shown that,
where malnutrition rates are very high, a sustainable impact on
protein-energy malnutrition requires commitment to intense program
activity for a period of 8-10 years. Political commitment to a National
Nutrition Program thus will be necessary for at least eight years after
reaching full national coverage, or a total of twenty years from the
initiation of NNP-I, assuming national coverage is achieved by the end of
NNP-III (expected for 2008-2012). Based on the success of BINP the present
government's commitment to reducing malnutrition is high. Also, due to
the political popularity of this type of intervention and its focus on the
poor, it is likely that any future government will be equally
supportive.Managerial Sustainability: Given the current absorptive
capacity of the MOH, a separate Project Management Unit is necessary for
the medium term. However, the functions and responsibilities of the PMU
will be fully integrated into MOH as soon as capacity allows, which is
expected to take about three years. Additionally, the project will (i)
adopt the agreed GOB-NGO contract system for service delivery that a)
- 5 -



combines the government's ability to mobilize resources with NGOs' ability
to mobilize communities, and b) eliminates the need for GOB to install a
new cadre of permanent field workers; (ii) create effective linkages and
coordination at the central level between NNP-I service delivery and
management systems with those under HPSP; and (iii) strengthen capacities
of communities, NGOs and local government units to progressively take over
management responsibilities and ownership essential for project
sustainability. Institutional Sustainability: As the phased NNP projects
develop, it is expected that institutional arrangements will evolve.
Possible institutional arrangements that may emerge include (i)
progressive integration, while maintaining strong nutrition identity, into
the integrated management arrangements of Health and Family Welfare, and
(ii) contracting of a flexible, semi-autonomous body, linked to the MOHFW,
to coordinate area-based activities and perhaps attract a broader range of
project financiers. Ownership and Sustainability of Benefits: Since NNP-I
interventions will be time-bound, sustainability of benefits will depend
importantly on the communities' understanding of their nutrition problems,
their ability to articulate their demands for project assistance, and
their involvement in appropriate action for improvement. As in BINP
activities will be directed at improving capacity for community
assessment, analysis and action, building on interest created and fostered
at the community and household levels. Additionally, activities initiated
by CNPs in rural Bangladesh will provide a unique opportunity for women to
interact on a broad array of social issues at the village level. Moreover,
since CNPs are drawn from the community, they are more likely to continue
to provide an active locus of social mobilization beyond the project
period.Financial Sustainability: Because NNP-I intervention is highly
focused on the poor, total cost-recovery from community-based services is
limited. Thus, longer-term financial sustainability may only be achieved
if the community takes on more direct responsibilities for operating and
management of activities by providing "in kind" services. However,
Government will still need to commit itself to incorporating core
nutrition services into its primary health care system. The community
mobilization efforts of NGOs, along with the GOB's stated plans for
decentralization, provide concrete steps for placing management of later
NNP projects into community hands.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
NNP-I will build on the design and satisfactory performance of BINP, which
was in turn based on experience from other countries, including India
(Tamil Nadu), Indonesia, Guinea-Bissau and Colombia. Lessons learned in
this manner that are reflected in the proposed project design
include:Universal growth monitoring and promotion of young children, along
with supplementary feeding, is feasible in a large-scale program and
significantly reduces severe child malnutrition within a short period of
time.Locally selected female part-time workers, supervised by an
all-female supervisory staff, can substantially improve children's and
maternal nutrition status if properly trained and supported.Village women
can reliably manage the preparation and distribution of a nutritionally
complete, hygienically prepared, low-cost supplement, using locally
available ingredients.Community ownership of nutrition services can be
generated through a carefully executed social mobilization process that
empowers local communities to take effective action on their malnutrition
problems.The unique GOB-NGO partnership model for BINP community-based
nutrition services showed services delivered through such partnerships to
- 6 -



be highly effective, efficient and responsive to local communities. For
the larger number of NGO partners required for the scope of NNP-I (and
later projects) implementation, the project will institute NGO
capacity-building on an NGO-to-NGO basis.The contracting process for
GOB-NGO partnerships proved to be a major bottleneck to BINP expansion.
NNP-I will circumvent this problem by contracting "packages" of working
areas for Lead NGOs, allowing a single contract for each over the duration
of the project.Lead time is required for training selected NGOs on BCC
interventions. NNP-I accordingly has planned for less disbursement during
Year l.Ad-hoc strengthening of ongoing national micronutrient
interventions is inadequate to the technical character and magnitude of
micronutrient deficiency problems in Bangladesh. This approach will be
replaced by incorporating financing for nation-wide supplement procurement
and new fortification initiatives.Targeting of household food security
interventions, based on combined criteria of household food insecurity and
nutrition vulnerability, will address the poverty-related underlying
causes of malnutrition.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No detrimental environmental impacts are expected
to occur during the proposed project. Higher ages at childbearing and
practice of contraception, both of which will be advocated for by the
behavior change communications sub-component of NNP, should contribute to
lower population growth and thus benefit the environment. The hygiene and
sanitation lessons provided to beneficiaries will promote the use of
improved sanitary latrines and safe water supply, also resulting in
environmental benefits. Intersectoral linkages to sanitation programs
planned for later NNP projects will further multiply these benefits.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
A. F. M. Iqbal Kabir
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



