Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3356 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(National Nutrition Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3356 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Netherlands Ministry 
for Development and Cooperation (the Netherlands) a grant (the 
Netherlands Grant) in an amount of approximately twenty-eight million 
guilders (NLG28,000,000) to assist in financing parts of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (The Netherlands Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Netherlands 
Government;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Canada 
acting through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) a 
grant (the CIDA grant) in an amount of approximately nine million 
Canadian dollars (Canadian $9,000,000) to assist in financing parts of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an Agreement (the 
CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CIDA; 
and
Page  2
(D)
the Netherlands and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement (the Co-Financier's Memorandum of Understanding) making 
arrangements for the coordination and administration of the financing 
provided severally by each co-financier and the Association, and 
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with 
such financing.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and payable to it under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association shall have the right to 
allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for 
such 
purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as the 
Association 
shall in its sole discretion determine."; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word "radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ABCN" means area-based community nutrition;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (3) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"FY" means the Borrower’s Fiscal Year commencing July 1 and 
ending June 30 of each year; 
(e)
"Health and Population Program Project" (CR3101-BD) means 
the Project being implemented by the Borrower in accordance with the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association, dated June 30, 1998;
(f)
"Integrated Nutrition Project" (CR 2735-BD) means the 
Project being implemented by the Borrower in accordance with the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association, dated June 6, 1995;
(g)
"MOHFW" means the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of 
the Borrower;
(h)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization registered under 
the laws of the Borrower.
(i)
"Pooled Funds" means the Netherlands Grant;
Page  3
(j)
"Pooled Funds Account" means the account established for the 
purposes of the Pooled Funds;
(k)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established 
and maintained pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(n)
"TK" or "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(o)
"TSU" means the technical support unit within the PMU; and
(p)
"Upazila" means an administrative unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixty-eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR68,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Taka a separate special deposit account in a scheduled 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this 
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that 
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably 
request;
Page  4
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in 
the territory of, the Borrower; and
     (iii) 
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 
2010 and ending May 1, 2040.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on May 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i) 
the Borrower’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have 
exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the 
review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the 
first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
Page  5
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
health and nutrition practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account and the Pooled Funds Account were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or 
Pooled Funds Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and 
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds 
during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report.
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; and
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets.
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  7
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Netherlands Grant Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association may 
agree; provided however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
The CIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association may 
agree; provided however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
thereof; or
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely that any 
event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (c) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any 
Joint Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior 
Assistant Secretary, Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Secretary or 
Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Divisions of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Page  8
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
(880-2) 811 
8611
DHAKA
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds, the allocation of 
the amounts of the Credit and the Pooled Funds to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of 
 Amount of the
    the Netherlands
Credit Allocated
    Grant Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in           (Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
NLG Equivalent)
 to be Financed
 (1)
Goods
      9,830,000
Such amounts
100% of 
foreign
as may be 
expenditures 
100%
allocated 
Page  9
from
of local 
expenditures
time to time 
by
(ex-factory 
cost) and 
the 
Association
70% of local 
expenditures 
for other 
items
procured 
locally
(2)
Consultants’
     56,340,000
Such amounts
services
100%
as may be
(including
allocated 
from
NGO's)
time to time by
the 
Association
(3)
Incremental
1,350,000
Such amounts
Operating
100% through
and
as may be
Maintenance
July 1, 2003
Costs
allocated 
from
and 80% 
there-
time to time 
by
after
the 
Association
(4)
Unallocated
     980,000
Such amounts as
may be 
allocated
from time to 
time
by the 
Association
TOTAL       SDR68,500,000
NLG28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Incremental Operating and Maintenance Costs" means 
expenditures incurred in respect of incremental staff salaries for 
personnel engaged exclusively for the purposes of the Project and the 
cost of operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles and equipment 
belonging to the PMU and Upazila offices and utilized for the Project 
Implementation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Part A of this Schedule until evidence, satisfactory 
to the Association, of the appointment of key officials in the PMU has 
been provided to the Association. 
Page  10
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and 
from the Pooled Funds Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods, under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each;
(b)
for consultants services, in the case of firms, under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; 
(c)
for consultants services, in the case of individuals, under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and
(d)
incremental operating and maintenance costs;
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Taka a special deposit 
account, for the Project, in a scheduled commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and the Pooled Funds Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received:
(i) 
the first Project Management Report referred to in 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(ii)
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of 
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
Page  11
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Pooled Funds 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Pooled 
Funds Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Pooled Funds Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR11,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  12
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and 
the Pooled Funds allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and 
the Pooled Funds Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit and the Pooled Funds Account shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the respective Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into 
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account and Pooled Funds Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and
(b) 
the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required 
to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall 
not exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to implement the first phase of the 
Borrower’s National Nutrition Program to significantly reduce 
malnutrition, especially among women and children, through the adoption 
of changes in behavior and appropriate use of nutrition services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
Page  13
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Service Component
1.
Area-Based Community Nutrition 
(a)
Carrying out of monthly growth monitoring and promotion for 
children younger than two years and weight monitoring for pregnant girls 
and women.
(b)
Delivery of a community-determined package of household food 
security interventions to food insecure households in areas which have 
demonstrated capacity with the core area-based community nutrition 
package.
(c)
Delivery of demonstrative supplementary food prepared by 
community women’s group to:
(i)
growth faltering and severely malnourished children; 
and
(ii)
malnourished pregnant women.
(d)
Provision, to mothers, of nutrition education and individual 
counseling for child caring practices, healthy child growth and 
development, and for pregnancy self-care and healthy fetal development.
(e)
Referral of children and mothers to health services as 
appropriate.
2.
National-Level Services 
(a)
Promotion and protection of exclusive breastfeeding.
(b)
Provision of micronutrient supplements.
(c)
Support for and development of food fortification programs.
Part B:
Project Support and Institutional Development
1.
Project Management and Development
(a)
Establishment and maintenance of the PMU (including the 
Technical Support Unit).
(b)
NGO contract management for ABCN activities.
(c)
Development of a Project services delivery and management 
system which will link with the Health and Population Program Project.
(d)
Management of food security services.
(e)
Capacity development for the management of area-based 
community nutrition services.
2.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Operations Research 
(a)
Development and use of a performance improvement-oriented 
MIS (management information system).
(b)
Establishment of an independent quality assurance unit 
within the PMU for monitoring Project performance.
(c)
Capacity development for learning activities and conduct of 
operations research.
(d)
Base-line survey at the beginning and evaluation, at 
mid-term and completion, of the Project.
3.
Behavioral Change Communications and Training
Page  14
(a)
Development of human resources and institutional capacity 
for effective field and management operations.
(b)
Carrying out of social mobilization and inter-personal 
communication campaign to influence awareness, attitude and behaviors for 
better nutrition, and improve mother and child caring practices starting 
with vulnerable target groups but also including service providers, 
policymakers, industry and the population at large.
*            *            *           *            *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
National Competitive Bidding
1.
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $340,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The provisions under the following subparagraph (c) shall 
apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1.
(c)
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and 
broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines:
(i)
standard bidding documents approved by the 
Association shall be used;
(ii)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least 
one widely circulated national daily newspaper and 
bidding documents shall be made available to 
prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids;
Page  15
(iii)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage 
premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(iv)
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or 
in person, to all who are willing to pay the required 
fee;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding 
and no preference of any kind shall be given to 
national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications 
were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding 
documents, and if a registration process is required, 
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated 
bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii)
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in 
person or by courier service or by mail;
(viii)all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated 
in the bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security 
shall apply only to a specific bid;
(ix)
bids shall be opened in public in one place 
preferably immediately, but no later than one hour, 
after the deadline for submission of bids;
(x)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence 
to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, 
in a format and specified period agreed with the 
Association;
(xi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison with an official estimate without the 
prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall 
not be carried out.  When two or more bidders quote 
the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following 
which: (A) if collusion is determined, the parties 
involved shall be disqualified and the award shall 
then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion 
can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited 
after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
(xiii)contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidders within the initial period of bid validity so 
that extensions are not necessary.  Extension of bid 
validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed 
without the prior concurrence of the Association: (A) 
for the first request for extension if it is longer 
than eight weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests 
for extensions irrespective of the period;
(xv)
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders;
(xvi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Association’s prior concurrence; and
(xvii)all contractors or suppliers shall provide 
performance security as indicated in the contract 
documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s performance 
security shall apply to a specific contract under 
which it was furnished.
Page  16
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
UNISCALE (an electronic digital weighing scale) and micronutrients 
(vitamin A and potassium iodate) may be procured from UNICEF in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract being the first contract using 
the procedures specified under Part B and Part C (i) of this Section 
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:
(a) 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines); and 
(b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection of NGO’s
NGO services for implementation of Area Based Community Nutrition 
(ABCN) under Part A of the Project may be procured under contracts 
Page  17
awarded in accordance with procedures previously agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for independent monitoring and quality assurance (INFS, 
BBS and HKI); training (IPHN, BRAC, ICMH and NIPORT); behavioral change 
communications activities (UNICEF); the vulnerable group development 
program (BRAC); breast feeding activities (BBF); and operations research 
(ICDDR,B), under the Project may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, or 
procured under single source selection, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consultants irrespective of estimated cost, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Project Management Unit
In respect of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30, 2000 establish and thereafter maintain the 
Page  18
PMU, with offices, equipment, funds and other facilities and resources as 
required for the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
by December 31, 2000 appoint staff in adequate number and 
all on terms of reference and with skills, qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
by July 1, 2001, computerize the financial accounting system 
in the Finance Section of the PMU.
2.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
During the implementation of the Project the Borrower shall ensure 
that:
(a)
two operational audits shall be carried out:
(i)
the first no later than three months prior to the 
Mid-Term Review; and
(ii)
the second one year prior to the Project Closing 
Date;
(b)
a management review of the PMU and the MOHFW shall take 
place no later than three years after the Effective Date, to plan for 
integration of PMU functions into the MOHFW;
(c)
a transition plan, agreed with the Association, shall be 
implemented for transition from the Integrated Nutrition Project to this 
Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)
by no later than December 31, 2001 a phase wise exit 
strategy plan shall be developed and a copy of such plan shall be 
submitted to the Association for its review and approval and such plan 
shall be implemented promptly thereafter, taking into account the 
comments and recommendations of the Association.
3.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, or about October 31, 2002, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
