Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-iZ   ZZZV~- A.i4't*
Report No. 7735-MAC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
MAY 19, 1989
Africa Region
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Agricultural Sector Operations Division
|lis document has a restucted dlsalbutiou and may be usd by redpients only ln the perfomanoe of
their officiil dufes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wlthout Wodd Bank authodzakn.



CURP.ENCY EGUiVAtENTS
Currency Unit    n    Malagasy Francs (11()
US S1.00         -    FMG 1,580
FMG 1,000        -    US$0.63
VEIGETS AND HEASUOES
I are (a)                    -     0.0247 acres
I hectare (ha) )                   2.47 acres
1 kilmouter (km)             -     0.62 miles
1 *qua- kilometer (k2)       -     0.39 *qure aile
1 kilcgram (k>)                    2.20 pounds
1liter (1)                  -     0.26 US gallon
-     0.22 Imperial gallon
1tone (t)                    -     2,204 pound
ABBJREVIATIONS
AfD       -   African Dev.lopmeat Bank
CASA      -    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CCCE      u    Caisse Centrale de Coopération &coromique
(French Development Futd)
CIAT      -    Cantro Internacional de Agricultur- Tropical
CIRAD     -    Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche
Agronomique pour le Développement
CRESFD    -    Education Sector Project
EC             Eurapean Coemtiity
EPIC      -    Etablissement Public à caract;re Industriel et Commrcial
ESBA      -    Ecole Supirierre des Sciences Agronomiques (Agricultural
Faculty, University of Tannarivo)
FAC            Fonda d'Aide et de Coopiration (French Goverament Agency
for Grant Aid)
FIFAYNOR -    Dairy and Agricultural Extension Projecte (Projet
d'Assistance Norvigienne au Diveloppement de l'Agriculture
sur les Hauta-Plateaux)
FOFIFA    a   National Center for Applied Research for Rural Development
FSÈ       -    Farming Systens Research
SOH       -    Government of Madagascar
GTZ       °    German bilateral aid agency
IARCs     -    Iternational Agricultural Research Contera
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricaltural Developcent
IRI       n    Internttional Rice Research Institute
ISAC      -    Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
ISNAR     n    International Service for National Agricultural Research
MPARA          M Ministère de la Production Agricole et de la Réforme
Agraire (Mi4nstry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian
Reform)
MPAEF     -    Ministère de la Production Animale et des Eaux et Fo-êta
(<Haistry of Livestock, Fisheries, and Forestry)
MPFE      n   Ministère auprès de la Prisidence chargé des Finances et de
l'Economie (Hintatry of Finance and Economy)
MRSTD          Hinistère de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique
pour le Daveloppement (Ministry of Scientific mad
Technological Research for Development)
NARP      -    National Agricultural Research Program
NORAD     -    Norvegian Aid Agency
ODASE          Opération de Daveloppement Agricole du Sud-Est
ODR       n    Opiration de Développement Risicole (Highlands Rice
Development Project)
ORSTQM    -    Office pour la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-
Mer
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
SOMALAC   n    Regional Development Authority for the Lac Aleotra Region
SPAAR     -    Special Program for Af_ican Agricultural Research
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Covernment of Madagaacar        Jsmuary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents.
Tables of Contents  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .(Ci)
Credit and Project Summary  .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .    (iv)
!. BACKGROUND.
A. Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
B. Economie Resources and Management   . . . . . . . . . .   .         2
General   * * * * * * * * ** * * * * * *.*.*.   .        .       2
Economic Performance  .................                          2
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results  .   . .      .    .  3
C. The Agrieultural Sector   . . . . . . .       . . . .  . . .        3
Sector Profile  . . . . . . . . .   .     . . .  .  . .          3
Goverrment Policy for Agriculture   . . . .   .....         .    4
Bank Group involvement in Agriculture        ..    . . . .       5
Present IDA Strategy for Agriculture  . .       . . . .          6
II.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHs PAST AND FUTURE.  . . . .          .  .         6
A. Agricultural Research   . *         .................          .    6
Organization and Management   ....  .       .  .  .  .    ......   6
Research Station Network    . .....            .......   .       7
Human Resources   ....  .   * .    .  . ................     .   8
Research Financing  . .........               ... . ...   .      9
Major Constrainte   . . . . . .   . . ... .   . . . . . . .     10
B. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy  . .          il
Master Plan for Agricultural Research   . . . .   . . . .       12
This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Madagascar
in January 1989 comprising Messrs Jan Weijenberg (Mission Leader), Tom
Bredero and Christopher Ward (IDA); Mrs Maria-Cristina Amezquita (CIAT),
Messrs Dirk Belmans, Hannibal Muhtar (CIMMYT), Jacques _efort (CIRAD) and
Noel Chabeuf (CIRAD) (Consultants); Jean Pierre Sorg (Coopération Suisse)
and Abdul Wahab (USAID) (donor participants). At the request of the
Malagasy Government, Mr. Guy Rocheteau of ISNAR joined the mission as
observer.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
III.    THE  PROJECT.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
A. Project Objectives  .   a  ......................           14
B. Summary Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
C. Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .    17
Crop Research Programs  ................                  17
Animal Production Research Programs   . . . . . . . . .   19
Forestry, Agro-Forestry and Soil Conservation and
Inland Fisheries Research Programs  . . . .  . . .  . .  20
Agricultural Technology Research Programs . . . . . . .   21
Farming Systems Research (FSR) and On-Farm
Research Programs      .  .................. .          22
Institutional Strengthening  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Research Quality and Adaptability Improvement . . . . .   24
Human Resources Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Training      .... ................ ................      27
Support to the Agricultural Faculty (ESSA) of the
University of Antananarivo  . .   . . . ..    . ... .   27
Construction and Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and
Equipment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINAC .CING ................. .               31
A. Cost Estimates  . . . .    .. . .. . . . .  . .  . .  . . .  31
B. Financing . .                           . . . . . . . .     33
C. Government Budget Impact  . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . .   35
D. Procurement   . . . . .  . . .  .  . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  37
E. Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . .  38
F. Budgeting and Reporting Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . .   39
G. Accounting and Audit  ... .  .  .  .  .   .............  .. .  39
V.  ORGANIZATION   ANDMAMNAGEMElT ................. .               40
A. General                         . . .  . . . . . . . . .    41
B. Research Programming and Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation . . . . .  . . .  . a . . . . . . . . . .  41
C. R.%search .-rogram Review . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . .  42
D. Research - Extension Liaison   .   ..      . .  ...         43
E. Research Support Services and Station Management  . . . .   43
F. Accounting, Finance and Administration (Organization) . .   44
G. Human Resources Development Master Plan, Training
and Recruitment    ................   .                   45
H. Administration of Support to the Agricultural
Faculty (ESSA)  ......... ...........                     46
I. Civil Works   . . . . .     . . . . . . . . .   .  . a .   46
J. Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47



(iii)
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION.  ......................             47
A.  Project Benefits   .               ...................     47
B.  Employment and Poverty Impact  . .. ..... .. . . .
C.  Environmental Icpact   . .                        .        48
D.  Project Risks          . . . .         .  ......           48
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED WITH THE .UROWER. CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT.
2.1 Present Distribution of kesearch Staff over Programs and
Activities ..     ..........*                      à  .8
3.1 Future (1996) Distribution of National Research Staff  . . .    26
3.2 Civil Works and Equlpment Requirements   . . . . . . . . . .    30
4.1 Sumary Accounts by Yesr                                         32
4.2 Project Financing Plan                                          35
4.3  Goverrment Budget Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
4.4 Procurement Procedures   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38
4.5 Diabursement Categories  . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .  . . . .  .  39
SUPPORTING ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS.
AUNEX 1   Distribution Pattern of NSc. Level Research Staff  . .    54
AINEZ 2   Indicative Plan of TrAining Requirements . . . . . . .    55
ANNEX 3.1 FOFIFA Balance Sheets    . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   56
ANNEX 3.2  Income and Expenditure Statements.   . . . . . . . . .   57
ANNEX 4   Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  58-66
ANNEX 5   IDA Diabursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
ANNEX 6   Selected Documents and Data Available
in Project File.  . . . . . a a . . . . . . . . . .    68
Chart 1. FOFIFA Organization Schedule
Chart 2. Project Implementation Schedule
Map: IBRD 21261



(iv)
NADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
lorrower       Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amounts        US$24.0 million
Termst         Standard IDA Terns
Beneficiar:s  Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research for
Development, National Center for Applied Research for Rural
Development (FOFIFA)
Prolect
Descriptions   (i) Ooectives and Contentt The Project would constitute a
firet seven year phase of a long term support program to
strengthen national agricultural research in Madagascar, and
to make agricultural re8earch activities more responsive and
applicable to the needs and constraints of producers.The
Project uould consist of:
(a) support to ongoing priority research programs with the
accent on improving research quality and adaptability
and on research-extension linkages;
(b) institutional strengthening of FOFIFA through a
reorganization that would separate research and station
management;
<c) human resources development, education and training;
(d) a program of construction, rehabilitation and re-
equipment for the research network covering FOFIFA's
headquarters and central laboratories in Antananarivo,
eight regional research conters, four research stations,
and five sub-stations; and
(f) coordination of external assistance amongst all donors
funding agricultural research in Madagascar.
(ii) Benefits:  Long term benefits are expected from (a)
accelerated agricultural productivity and growth; (b) higher
returne to farmers and increased employment; and (c)
increased foreign exchange earnings.
(iii) Risks: The principal risks of the project ares (a)
adequacy of Government and donor budgetary funding; (b)
effectivenesa of FOFIFA organization and management; (c) the
difficulty carrying out the complicated program of staff
reductions, re-assignment and upgrading; and (d) the need to
switch to an entirely user-oriented, extension-driven
research program, which requires a changing institutional
philosophy and relies on future improvements in the
extension service.



(v)
Estimated Project Costes
In current US$ Ecuivalent
Capital Coats                                                25.7
Recurrent Costs:
- Overhead Costs                                       13.9
-  Research Program Costs                              17.5
Base Cost                                                    57.1
Physical Contingencies                                        2.8
Price Contingencies                                          10.7
13.5
TOTAL Project Costs                                          70.6
Financina Plan:
Gover nent                                                   30.5 ai
FOPIFA                                                        5.7
Other Donors                                                 10.4 b
IDA                                                          24.0
TOTAL                                                        70?*6
Estimated Diabursements:
F790   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
--------------------- -   US$ million ---------------
Annual                 1.4   2.4    3.4    3.4        3.3   4.1    3.6   2.4
Cumulative             1.4   3.8    7.2   10.6       13.9  18.0   21.6  24.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map.:             IBRD   No. 21261
ai Including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$12.6 million
bI Including an advance of US$514,500 from the Project Preparation
Facility



MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Background
1.G0        Before 1974, agricultural resuarch in Madagascar vas carrie_ out
by a large number of separate French-based institutes, nowadays brought
together under the Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche
Agronomique pour le Diveloppement (CIRAD), and l'Office pour la Recherche
Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM), both headquartered in Paris.
In 1974, the National Center for Applied Re"earch for Rural Development (in
Malagasys FOFIFA) vas created under the Ministry of Agricultural Production
and Agrarian Reform (MPARA). In 1984, FOFIFA vas transforred to the
responsibility of the newly formed Ministry of Scientific and Technological
Research for Development (MRSTD).
1.02        In 1983, the Government of Nadagascar (GON) requested the
International Service for National Agrieultural Research (ISNAR) to critically
evaluate its ongoing agricultural research effort. Based on ISNAR's
recommendations, FOFIFA's lnternal organization vas modified, and with IDA
financing under the Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1249 MAG), research prograsming and financial management vere
strengthened. Under the Second Agricultural Institutions Development Project
(Cr. 1709 MAG), FOFIFA research staff, in collaboration vith their former
colleagues from before 1974, prepared an 'nventory of past research results,
and, vith the assistance of ISNAR, completed in Juna 1988 a first draft of a
15-year masterplan for agricultural research. Subsequently, a combined
FOFIFAIISNAR team prepared a seveu-year National Agricultural Research Program
(NARP) which vas discussed in September 1988 by an IDA Pre-Appraisal Mission.
1.03        The project has been prepared by the Government in close
consultation vith the donors interested in agricultural research. An IDA
appraisal Mission, vith active participation from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Swiss Bilateral Aid Agency
(Coopération Suisse), vîsited Madagascar in January 1989.  Through two donor
coordination meetings, organized by the Malagasy Government, the folloving
agencies also cooperated in the appraisals the French Ministry of Cooperation
(FAC), German Bilateral Aid (GTZ), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), the African Development Bank (AfDB), and Caisse Centrale
de Cooparation Economique (CCCE). At the request of Government, a
representative of ISNAR participated as observer. Negotiations vere held in
Paris from April 25 through May 1, 1989, in conjunction vith a formal donor
meeting organized by the Nalagasy authorities on May 2 and 3, 1989.



B. Economic Resources and Management
General
1.04        Madagascar, an island more than 1,500 km long, with a land area of
590,000 km2 (slightly larger than France), is characterized by its great
diversity in terms of climate, soils and topography. Rainfall, tor example,
varies from that of tropical wet forest to near desert conditions.
Madagascar's bio-diversity is unique in the world and the country i often
referred to as a continent on its own. Although the island i largely
situated within the tropics, almost all temperate zone crops can be grown in
the Central Highlands. The population ls estimated at il million inhabitants
(1987), very unevenly distributed, with an average of 18.51km2, but exceeding
100/km2 in the Central Highlands, and growing at a rate of 3Z per year. Close
to half of the urban population of 1.5 million lives in the capital,
Antananarivo.
Economic Performance
1.05         With a per capita income in 1987 of US$225. 'edagascar is on^ of
tihe poorest countries in the world, despite its important 1:xnd varied natural
resource base. In terms of its economic record, it experienced modest growth
from independence in 1960 to 1972, stagnation from 1972 to 1980, a sharp
deterioration between 1980 and 1982 and financial stabilization from 1983 to
date. The poor economic performance of the 19709 stemmed largely from
inappropriate economic policies, which emphasized a much increased role for
the public sector, with industrialization as the central objective and
agriculture in oanly a supporting role, nationalization of foreign owned
enterprises, extensive consumer subsidies, and pervasive controls over private
economic activity.  Between 1978 and 1980, the Government embarked on a po-rly
coordinated policy of massive public inve'tment, concentrated on economically
unviable projects, and mainly financed with external borrowing. This policy,
combined with declining terms of trade and stagnant domestic revenues,
produced a fiscal deficit of over 18Z of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1980,
an inflation rate of over 30Z, a decline of 102 in real GDP from 1980 to 1982,
and a large increase in the external debt burden severely constraining
economic recovery.
1.06        Following measures initiated in 1980 aiming at financial
stabilization, policy adjustment between 1981 and 1986 centered largely on
demand management. During this period, the fiscal deficit fell from 15Z of
GDP to 4Z, mainly through reduced expenditures. Expansion of domestic credit
decreased sharply, and annual inflation dropped to about 13Z in 1983-1986.
With exports stagnating and scheduled external interest payients almost
doubling, the brunt of the adjustments fell on imports, which have dropped by
more than half in real terms since 1982. Real GDP started growing again in
1983, although per capita GDP has continued to decline through 1987 due to
fast population growth.
1.07         Economic developments in 1987 vere disappointing.  Despite good
performance by non-traditional exports, exports as a whole fell below 1986
levels by about 15Z in SDR terms, largely because of unfavorable developments



- 3 -
in the world price of coffee, the country's major export commodity. Imports
continued to decline and fiscal revenues vere lover than foreseen in the
stand-by arrangement with the IMF. However, prudent monetary management led
to expenditures remaining largely vithin forecast limita, and inflation vas
lower than foreseen, despite a major devaluation in May-June 1988 (46Z in
foreign currency terme).
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results
1.08         Starting in 1985, after several years of progress in stab>ilizing
the economy, the Gavernment turned its attention to restructuring through
supply-oriented measures, supported by a series of Sectoral Adjustment
Credits. li Measures taken since 1985 include: elimination of controls on
most ex-factory prices and of export taxes on manufactured products, reduction
of controls on profit margins. introduction of a new investment code,
elimination of market controls and consumer subsidies on rice (Madagascar's
main staple), elimination of the monopsony of state rice marketing agencies,
the 1988 devaluation, replacement of quantitative import restrictions with a
simplified tariff structure, introduction of a market-clearing allocation
system for foreign exchange for mports, budgetary process reform to raise the
efficiency of allocation and utilization of Government resources, streamlining
of the parastatal sector, reform of the commercial banking system, and removal
of administrative obstacles to the expansion and diversification of exports,
including elimination of the state monopolies over traditional export crops.
1.09         The public sector reforms outlined above are complex and it vill
take several years before the full effect works through to improved perform-
ance. During this period GDP growth is expected to continue improving
gradually and to overtake population grovwth. Meanwhile, necessary cuts in
real public expenditures have entailed sharp declines in the real vages of the
civil service, in development expenditures and in the goods and services
needed for Government operations. This has had a severe effect on the
availability and quality of Government services to farmers, and in particular
on agricultural research due to a chronic lack of operating funds and the
demotivation of research staff.
C. The Agriculture Sector
Sector Profile
1.10         Agriculture is the most important contributor to the national
economy, in that it employs 85Z of the population and accounts for more than
80 of export earnings. Most of the estimated 1.5 million farm families are
smallholders (in the 1 to 2 ha range, rarely exceedirng 5 ha), largely engaged
in subsistence farming. Due to its unique ecological diversity, most tropical
and temperate climate crops can be found in Madagascar, but less than 5Z of
li FY86 Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC), FY86 Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (CASA), FY87 Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment
Credit, FY88 Public Sector Adjustment Credit.



- 4 -
its land area, about 2.3 million ha, i8 cultivated; 15Z is still covered vilth
foresta that are rapidly disappearing 21; and the remaining 80Z is largely
pasture for the country's 10 million cattle herd. More than half of the total
cultivated area is under rice, Madagascar's main staple, most of it under
irrigatlon or various forms of vater harvesting. Rice accounts for 302 of
agricultural production value. Second most important among the foodcrops are
the tubers (mainly cassava, sweet potato and taro), followed by maize. Total
paddy production is estimated at 2.2 million tons per annum, vith an average
yield of 1.8 tons per ha (about 145 kg of rice per capita). Up until 1974,
Madagascar vas self-aufficient in rice production, and even exported small
quantities of high quality rice for specialty markets. Thereafter, production
failed to match population growth, leading to an all time low in 1982, when
300,000 tons had to be imported. Subsequent deregulation of rice markets and
revival of producer services have helped increase production since the mid-
19809. Importe in 1987 vere down to 60,000 tons and self-sufficiency li
expected to be reached again by the early 19909.
1.11         In value terms, the beef cattle herd provides the second most
important product (16Z of agricultural GDP). The share of subsistence
production has slowly increased over the past decade. Industrial crops,
notably sugar and cotton, contribute about 7Z. A small group of export crops
(coffee, cloves, vanilla, and pepper) accounts for about 15Z of production
value, but some 75Z of export earnings. and coffee alone for about 50Z.
Coffee (robusta) exports are down from a peak of 73,000 tons in 1975176 to
41,000 tons for the 1987188 season, due to a combination of low producer
prices, over-taxation by Government, a monopolistic parastatal marketing
system, and a serious decline in quality. Up until the mid 1970's, Madagascar
vas self-sufficient in edible oil production (groundnuts, coconuts and oil
palm). Subsequently, production declined steeply and imports, mostly In the
form of food aid, increased. Bowever, liberalization of markets has
encouraged a revival of production, particularly of coconut palm and of
artisanally processed groundnuts.
Government Policy for Agriculture
1.12         It will be evident from the above that agriculture suffered
particularly from ill-conceived economic policies in the 19709 and early
1980s. The main elements of policy affecting agriculture at this time vere:
(i) a major expansion of Governmient intervention in production, processing and
marketing; (ii) controlled prices favoring urban consumers; (iii) over-valued
exchange rates; (iv) inefficient public sector management; and (v) chronic
under-funding of Government services.
1.13         By 1983, Government had begun to reformulate its approach.
Gradually dismantling its previous policy, Government nov supports: (i) a
21 The FY88 Forest Management and Protection Project (Cr.1878 MAG) is a
first step in aisisting GOM to protect remaining tropical forests. The
Environmental Protection Project, presently under preparation, vould
broaden the scope of this assistance to the full protection of Madagascar's
unique bio-diversity.



- 5 -
fre. market system as a means of improving producer incentives; (ii)
withdrawing Government services from activities better performed by others,
-ahether amall farms (e.g. seed production) or commercial companies (e.g. input
supply); and (iiI) concentrating Government financisl and management resources
on essential Government services (research and extension) and rehabilitation
and maintenance of rural roada and irrigation networks.
Bank GrouR Involvement in Atriculture
1.14         IDA Financed Investmonts Prolects.  Since 1969, IDA has
participated in the financing of 16 operations in the agricultural sector for
a total amount of US$ 225.1 million. Nany of the earlier projects vere area
development or enclave type operations with management units more or less
independent from Government's own services without much attention being paid
to recurrent cost financing.  The 1983 Cotton Development Project (Cr. 1433-
MAG) was the first one to address an entire sub-sector on a national scale.
At approximately the same time, IDA started to support MPARA and MPAEF with
management improvement of agricultural institutions, sector financial resource
management, agricultural sector planning, and strengthening of policy and
economic analysis, through the Agricultural Institutions Technical Iissistance
Project (Cr. 1249-MAG) in 1982, and its follow-up, the Second Agricultural
Institutions Development Project (Cr. 1709-MAG) in 1986. IDA continted to
support sub-sector investment projecta through the 1985 Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1589-MAG), the 1987 Second Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 1804-MAG) and the 1988 Forests Management and Protection Project
(Cr. 1878-MAG).
1.15         IDA Support to the Adlustment ProceFs.  In 1986, IDA financed
the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1691-MAG), which
supported liberalization of rice marketing, the elimination of the monopsony
of state rice marketing agencies, and the liberalization of the edible oil and
agricultural Inputs markets. Further reforma affecting the performance of the
agricultural sector vere achieved through the 1988 Public Sector Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG), through the removal of administrative obstacles and
controls over the export trade, including the elimination of state trading
monopolies over traditional export crops, and the restructuring and/or
eliminatior. of sector public enterprises (para. 1.08).
1.16         Performance Evaluation. To date, both project completion reports
and PPARs are available for the Beef Cattle Development Project (Ln. 585-MAG,
1969; Report No. 1559, 19'7), the Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (Cr. 214-MAG,
1970; Report No. 1622, 1977), the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development
Project (Cr. 322-MAG, 1972; Report No. 5403, 1994), the First Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project (Cr. 506-MAG, 1974; Report No. 5403,
1984), and the First Mangoro Forestry Project (Ln. 1065-MAG/Cr. 525-MAG; 1974;
Report No. 4198, 1982). A recent project completion report (1988) is
available for the First Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1064-MAG, 1980), and
the one for the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 881-MAG, 1979)
is under preparation.
1.17         Most of the early investments in the agricultural sector were
disappointing with economic rates of return ranging from negative to marginal.
Although there vere a number of technical problems, the root cause of most



- 6 -
failures has been the dirigiste approach of Governmant policies. combined vith
the political changes and instability experienced by Madagascar during the
period under review. The main points brought out are: (i) price controls,
seriously affecting farmer incentives; (ii) the creation of public enterprises
that combined legitimate Government services (extension, research) with
project implementation and commercial activities that vere not profitable
because of Government controls; (iii) leading to serious financial
difficulties because of insufficient and irregular local funding (serious
constraints on Government budget outlays) and a general lack of foreign
exchange; (iv) projects that provA4 ultimately not to be financially
sustainable; (v) difficulties with inter-agency coordination in rural
development type operations; and (vi) insufficient attention paid to the
availability of trained staff and the need to include coherent human resources
development plans in project design. Changes in economic management policy
and .n project design incorporate these lessons from the past in current
development efforts. For example, the proposed Project specifically addresses
the issues of financial sustainability and human resources development in the
sector.
Present IDA Strategy for Agriculture
1.18         IDA's strategy towards the sector is three-pronged.  One, to
continue the macro-economic adjustment process, focussing on public
expenditure reviews and related policies, in particular with respect to macro-
economic management, budget rationalization in line with the policies
underlying the public expenditure program, and much needed civil service
reform, coupled with human resources development. Two, to continue the sector
adiustment process, in particular vith respect to further removing obstacles
to free trade, improving the quality and diversity of export crops, and
generally reducing Government's intervention in the sector in favor of the
producer (farmer associations) and the private sector. Three, to underpin the
adiustment process with a sound sectoral investment program, focussing on key
sub-sectors: food security, livestock development, irrigation, agricultural
extension and research, and environmental protection. Operations in each of
these areas are presently either ongoing or under active preparation. Amongst
these, agricultural research has a high priority as a basic Government service
that can help increase farmer's productivity.
II.  AGRICULTUPAL RESEARCH: PAST AND FUTURE
A. Agricultural Research
Organization and Management
2.01         FOFIFA, the agency in charge of agricultural research, is a
public enterprise under the responsibility of MRSTD (para.l.01). It has the
statute of an EPIC (Etablissement Public à caractère Industriel et Commercial)
with a Board of Directors of six members representing MRSTD, Ministry of
Finance (MPFE; and user ministries. The Chairman of the Board is a



- 7 -
representative of MRSTD. A General Manager is responsible for day-to-day
management. A Government Comnissioner, nominated by the Office of the
President, attends Board meetings but is not a member.  He verifies FOFIFA's
accounts and has the right of veto on Board decisions vithin eight days
following their meetings. The accounts of FOFIFA are kept by an "agent
comptable', nominated by, and reporting to MPFE.
2.02         The General Manager is responsible for the preparation and
execution of the research programs, the preparation of the budget, presenting
the annual balance sheet and financial statements to the Board, executing
Board decisions, and general management of the institute. He is assisted by a
Scientific Director and an Administrative and Financial Director. The
Scientific Director manages five Departments, each headed by a Department
Chief:
- the Crop Production Research Department;
- the Animal Production Research Department;
- the Forestry and Fisheries Research Department;
- the Technological Research Department; and
- the Farming Systesm ('recherche-développement") Research
Department.
Before 1984, FOFIFA was organized along disciplinary lines. The new
organization was introduced following ISNAR's recommendations (para. 1.02),
and is based on a nationally coordinated multi-discinlinary commodity research
program approach.
Research Station Network
2.03         FOFIFA's present network comprises 31 permanent research
stations which it inherited in 1974 from the various independent French
institutes, each of which had its own stations (para. 1.01). These stations
occupy approximately 12,500 ha, about half of this is range land for animal
production research (two stations of about 3,000 ha each). Only about 925 ha
vere cultivated in 1987 and of this only part vas for research purposes. A
large part of the cultivable area is squatted upon. Even though all buildings
and grounds were transferred to FOFIFA by law at the time of its creation, the
institute has in most cases no official title to its fixed assets. Some areas
and buildings are being used b> other ministries or local Government. The
situation is complex and, in some cases, almost intractable.
2.04         Following ISNAR's recommendations, FOFIFA decided in 1984 to
start regionalizing its research stations and decentralizing their management.
So far, only one station has become a regional center vith decentralized
management: the Regional Agricultural Center of Lac Alaotra (Cala). The rest
of the network is still managed directly by the research departments without
much coordination between them.  512 of all FOFIFA staff (712 of resesrch
staff) live and vork in Antananarivo vith negligible funds available to visit
outlying stations. The central laboratories, scattered throughout
Antananarivo, are directly managed by the Research Departments as vell.
FOFIFA's headquarters are also located in the capital, separate from the other
installations, in a rented former apartment building. Most buildings lack 15
years of maintenance due to tight Government funding and require rehabilita-



tion. Much of FOFIFA's laboratory and agricultural equipment has become
unsuitable or is out of service. The exceptions are the vaccine laboratory in
Antananarivo (which %as benefitted from GTZ financing) and the Cala
facilities, which have been recently rehabilitated and newly equipped (with
financing under the Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project, Cr. 1337-MAG).
The new Mahitsy rice research station, some 30 km from Antananarivo, has
recently been completed with financing from USAID and with technical
assistance from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI).
Human Resources
2.05         In December 1987, FOFIFA employed a seasonal workforce
equivalent of 500 and some 1,180 permanent and contractual staff, down from
about 1,500 in 1983. The reduction has been obtained through a recruitment
freeze combined with voluntary early retirement and natural turnover. FOFIFA
employs 51 national scientista (MSc., PhD. or equivalent), 18 expatriate
scientists (financed through a series of bilateral arrangements), and 57
"research collaborators" (BSc. or equivalent). who are often also working as
scientists or as station managers. Of the total of 108 national research
staff, 14 are in management positions. The distribution of the research staff
over the various research activities is presented in Table 2.1. Other
permanent staff comprises 320 research technicians and 166 administrative
staff. In addition, 583 contract staff are employed, most of whom have
acquired some tenure through long service. For each research worker
(scientists and 'research collaborators"), FOFIFA employs 16.5 staff, of which
11.3 are permanent (including contractual) staff, 3.3 research technicians,
and 1.7 administrative staff. These data indicate clearly that FOFIFA hus a
surplus of lower level staff and at the same time a severe shortage of
qualified scientists.
Table 2.1
Present Distribution of Research Staff over Programs and Activities
Number of Research Staff
Program/Activity                     National  Expatriate  Total
Crop Production                         43 (25)*l  12        55
Animal Production                       16 (5)      2        18
Forestry\Fisheries                      18 (13)     2        20
Farming Systems                         17 (11)     2        19
Technology                               6 (1)      -         6
Laboratories                             5 (2)      -         5
Scientific Directorate                   3 (-)      -         3
TOTAL                                  108 (57)    18       126
*1 Between brackets: of which research collaborators (BSc. or equivalent)
2.06        Most scientiets have studied at the Agricultural Faculty (ESSA) of
the University of Antananarivo. Some have studied in France or elsewhere.
Courses at the ESSA are fairly sttuctured and students can obtain degrees (4



- 9 -
years, being extended to 6) in agronomy, forestry, veterinary sciences and
agricultural economics. There are no probleme with the quality of the degree,
but more with the preparation for research vork, such as the limited
possibilities for specialization (phytopathology, entomology, virology, animal
husbandry, etc.), and the l±mited training in biometrics and research design.
The latter may in certain cases severely affect research quality.
Research Financing,
2.07        FOFIFA's financing is from a variety of sources--Government
operating budget, Government investment budget, counterpart funds, donors,
contracte vith local development agencies and operating income from sale of
p:oduce, seeds and vaccines.  In addition, in three out of the five years to
_987, FOFIFA ran deficits, eroding its modest working capital. In 1989, the
contributions programmed from each of the financing sources, and their uses
are as follows:
FMG
Income            millions    z     Expenditure  millions   z
Government Operating Budget       858       13   Overheads      1,498      23
Government Investment Budget       332       5   Investments    1,490      23
Counterpart Funds (as agreed    1,060       16   Program costs  3,589      54
with various donors'
Donors                           3,100      47
Contracts                          712      il
Operating Income                   249       4
Unidentified                       266       4
TOTAL                     6,577      100                  6,577    100
2.08        This system has some disadvantages.  First, there is no clear
definition of Government's responsibility to finance FOFIFA. Contributions
from the Government operating budget have been erratic and have declined in
real terms over the last five years. Investment budget and counterpart funds
are programmed annually and vary considerably from year to year.  Second donor
finance and contract income is concentrated on a few programs, leaving other
important programe unfunded.
2.09        FOFIFA's Financial Condition.  FOFIFA was created in 1974 without
working funds. By accumulating depreciation reserves, FOFIFA has been able to
build up a modest level of working capital, adequate for its present level of
operations, but insufficient to finance the expansion of activities foreseen
under the NARP. In addition, FOFIFA needs to ensure that all operations in



- 10 -
the future are fully funded, as it cannot afford to run deficits as it has in
the past.
2.10        Summarized balance sheets and income and expenditure accounts are
at Annex 3. Working Paper No. 10 in the Implementation Volume analyzes
FOFIFA's finances in more detail.
2.11        Financial Management ar.d Accounting.  FOFIFA follows Government
regulations on financial management and accounting. All its financial
accounting is handled by an official who reports not co FOFIFA management but
to the Ministry of Finance. A Government Commissioner appointed by the
Presidency vets most transactions prior to payment. FOFIFA does, however,
operate its own budget system, and prepares and monitors annual budgets by
overhead, program and investment cost.
2.12        FOFIFA has had numerous problems with these systems.  The circuit
of external checks has proved cumbersome and has not achieved its control
objective.  The accounting system has failed to produce timely and accurate
accounts, and the auditors have consistently refused to certify the accounts,
citing unverifiable balance sheet values and lack of internal control.
2.13        From 1984-7, as part of the preparation for NARP, IDA financed
technical assistance and consultancy (under Cr. 1709-MAG) to get the accounts
up to date, install improved systems and train staff. Progress vas made:
procedure manuals vere written; the budget system vas installed and became
partly operational; the backlog of financial accounts vas reduced; and staff
training began. Howe%er, following the end of the technical assistance
contract, accounts have again fallen into arrears and the systems are not
performing adequately   It has become clear that a second phase of the
rehabilitation effort needs to act more radically--on questions of
organization and responsibility--and to be more sustained.
Major Constraints
2.14        Lespite the low level of Government support to FOFIFA, significant
investments in agricultural research have been realized in recent years, and
several donors (including IDA) have supported this effort. External support to
agricultural researeh consisted mostly of adaptive research components of
larger agriculture, livestock, forestry and rural development projects.
Unfortunately, many of these efforts vere designed for limited, project
specific purposes and did not take account of national implications and
priorities, nor of any vision of building sustainable long term research
programs. Thus, although advances have been made in rice and wheat research,
farming systems research, integrated pest management research and other areas,
many of these programs vere conducted by regional development projects and the
results are limited in their applicability and in their availability.
2.15        The problem of the coordination and management of the research
effort has been made more difficult by the veakness of user organizations,
particularly the extension service which has been in disarray since the 1970s.
On FOFIFA's side, dialogue with extension has been made harder by the absence,
until 1984, of a farming systems research department, and the tendency of



- il -
researchers to do on-station research rather than user-oriented on-farm
research.
2.16        With the revival of extension in a number of high-potential areas,
FOFIFA has made great strides in improving the relevance of its research and
its capacity to carry it out. Improvements include the introduction of
research programming and budgeting, creation of the Farming Systems Research
Department, the preparation of the research inventory for the research master
plan (para. 1.02). However, no further improvements can be expected in the
efficient utilization of resources and facilities vithout fundamental changes
in the structure of its management and the decision making process. New
policies will need to be introduced with respect to: personnel management
(hiring, firing, carreer development, salary scales and incentives); human
resources development to improve research quality and management; research
station management, operation and maintenance (facilities, laboratories and
grounds); and further improvements in financial management. Furthermore, such
new policies will have only a limited effect, unless a lasting solution is
found for regular and sustainable funding of agricultural research in
Madagascar. These are the constraints that the proposed project intends to
address.
B. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy
2.17        Madagascar requires significant increases in agricultural
production to keep pace with population growth, provide additional employment,
generate a better standard of living, and increase and diversify exports. At
the same time, there is a need to preserve and improve the productivity of the
natural resource base. The great diversity in topography, agro-climates,
population density and farming systems (para. 1.10, Map IBRD No. 21261)
necessitates a strengthening and regionalization of adaptive research
capacity. To meet these -hallenges, a more efficient and productive
agricultural research systb;- is urgently needed in addition to improvements in
other agricultural services. To achieve these goals, the following four broad
strategies will be pursued: (i) research will be reorganized and reoriented
to increase its responsiveness to farmer's needs for appropriate new
technologies; (ii) in response to changing international and domestic markets,
research will be increasingly focussed on the generation of higher returns and
increased employment through changing farming systems as a result of crop
diversification and specialization, and integration of animal production with
agricultural operations; (iii) research will give a high priority to
safeguarding and improving the natural resource base through a renewed focus
on on-farm soil conservation as an integral part of farming systems research;
and (iv) in response to the need for food security for a rapidly increasing
population, research will become one of the tools available to GOM to achieve
this national goal.
2.18        The strategy to achieve these broad goals includes:  clear
definition of national research priorities and long term planning of key
research prugrams; rationalization of research center activities and mandates;
appropriate human resources development and manpower employment; improved
organization and management of research and continuity in research funding.
The two prerequisites for the efficient implementation of these strategies



- 12 -
ares one, the institutional restructuring of the research system; and two, an
effective coordination between donors managed by the appropriate Malagasy
institutions (MRSTD/FOFIFA, MPARA and MPAEF).
Master Plan for Agricultural Research
2.19        With the assistance of ISNAR under IDA financing, FOFIFA completed
in June 1988 a first draft of a Master Plan for Agricultural Research, which
vas subsequently distributed for commente to user ministries, collaborating
national and international research institutes, and donors interested in
agricultural research in Madagascar (including the Bank). Taking into account
these commente on the Master Plan, FOFIFA prupared, again with assistance from
ISNAR under IDA financing, the basic project preparation document, which was
distributed in September 1988 to the same recipients.
2.20        The Master Plan is primarily a 15-year action plan to implement
the strategy set out above (para. 2.18). It proposes research priorities as a
function of (i) Madagascar's development objectives; (ii) the inventories of
research results (para. 1.02); and (iii) the likelihood of high and early
returns to investment, i.e. the time frame within which extension themes are
expected to be generated. The Plan is intended to be used as a yard stick
rather than a strict action program from which no deviation is possible, and
in this way it has helped both Government and donors to focus on priorities in
a resource constrained environment. The following 17 research programs are
expected to gradually become fully operational over the plan period: rice,
(maize), (tubers), (groundnuts), cotton, sugar cane, coffee, vanilla, pepper,
meat and milk, (inland fisheries), (agricultural technolog;7, farming systems,
soil conservation, fuel wood, industrial wood, and (natural forests). The
programs between brackets are non-existant apart from some variety collections
that are being maintained. Only twelve programs are at present operational,
of which six fully funded (rice, meat and milk, farming systems, soil
conservation, fuel wood and industrial wood). A summary of past research
results and a description and justification of research program objectives,
operations and activities is presented in the Master Plan and the preparation
document. As a result of donor-driven interests, research funding in the
recent past has been skewed towards rice, soil conservation and farming
systems research. Through the Master Plan FOFIFA is now trying to obtain over
time a balanced research program, more in line with its priorities.
2.21        The Plan includes a far reaching rationalization of the research
station network, based on the following criteria: (i) the agro-ecological
zoning of 6 homogeneous regions and 23 sub-regions (Map IBRD No. 21261); (ii)
research staff requirements for priority program execution; (iii) proximity
of, or easy access to a city or town with educational facilities and other
amenities to ensure adequate living conditions for research staff families;
(iv) proximity and importance of agricultural development projects, i.e. as a
proxy for production potential; and (v) proximity of regional university or
other academic centers. The proposed network would thus be reduced from a
total of 31 research installations to 17, and consist ofs (a) eight regional
centers, defined as having a critical mass of at least ten resident
scientiets: Lac Alaotra, Mahitsy, Kianjasoa, Fianarantsoa, Toliary, Miadana,
Ivoloina and Antalaha; (b) four stations, with from one to five mostly junior
resident scientists: Antsirabé, Bealanana, Kianjavato and Moramanga; and (c)
five sub-stations, without resident scientistss Beforona, Manankazo,



- 13 -
Tanandave, Bezaha and Marovoay. On stations that vould remain in the system
but with excess land, experimental fields would be enclosed to avoid
trespassing and being squatted upon. All excess lands would be rented out for
commercial farming by January 1, 1990, including the lands of stations to be
closed. Before this is put into effect, official title to land ownership
would be established.
2.22        A first attempt to arrive at a human resources development program
is presented in the Master Plan. This i£ based on a realistic recruitment
schedule of 7 to 10 national scientists per year, while keeping expatriate
scientists at approximately the same percentage as at present. By year 7,
FOFIFA would thus employ about 100 national scientists and 35 expatriates.
Unfortunately, the program is not very specific in terms of training,
upgrading requirements and recruitment standards. The Master Plan also
foresees the possibility for additional courses at the ESSA in biometrics and
research design for newly to be recruited and upgrading of existing research
staff, but is silent on all other categories of staff.
2.23        To complete the rationalization of FOFIFA's organization and
management structure (paras. 2.01 and 2.09), the following actions will be
undertaken:
(i)   Redefine FOFIFA's statutes vithin the boundaries of the
existing EPIC legislation (para. 2.01), to provide a degree
of financial autonomy consistent with managing a large,
decentralised research institute;
cii)  Create separate research support services, headed by a third
director, responsible for station management, including the
central laboratories and ail commercial operations (seeds
and vaccines);
(iii) Complete the decentralization and regionalization of
station management (para. 2.03) - research
management itself would remain centralized;
(iv)  Strengthen nationally coordinated multidisciplinary
commodity program research through the appointment of
National Program Coordinators; and
(v)   Create a donor coordinating mechanism managed by MRSTD
to formalize and ensure the continuity of the intensive
effort maintained since completion of the Master Plan.
Detailed proposals vere discussed and agreed upon during appraisal and
negotiations and are presented below (Chapters IV and V).
2.24        Finally, an essential feature of the new strategy would be to
ensure regular and sustainable financing of research. This requires there to
be a clear understanding and commitment from Government on its obligations to
finance research, and a withdrawal from the recently made proposal that FOFIFA
become self-financing through productive activities, although income from
commercial farming on excess lands (para 2.21) should be used to enhance
FOFIFA's financial participation after January 1, 1990. This requires also



- 14 -
clear indications from donors on the extent of their commitments to multi-
annual programs, and a commitment to long-term financing of research. Special
arrangements also have to be worked out for the export crops programs where
the stabilizatio-i funds, which presently fund these programs, may shortly be
abolished in their present form (para 4.13). Finally, FOFIFA has to
demonstrate sound technical and financial management and accept accountability
for all resources entrusted to it. Detailed measures covering these points,
indispensable to implementation of the Master Plan, were worked out during
appraisal and are described in Chapter IV.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The National Agricultural Research Program (the Project) comprises
the first seven year phase of implementation of the research Master Plan.
Objectives and strategies of the Master Plan are described in Chapter Il
(paras. 2.17-2.24). The principal objectives during the Project period aret
(i)   to focus on priority multi-disciplinary and nationally
coordinated research programs with a significant likelihood
of high and early returns to investment;
(ii)  to develop technologies that contribute to increased farmer
income, in particular of smallholders, through a greater
responsiveness of research to real farmer constraints
(farmer participation in research program formulation,
*recherche dialoguée');
(iii) to increase research efficiency through an increased
emphasis on off-station research, improvements in research
quality, a reorganization of FOFIFA, rationalizing the
research station network, stabilizing research funding, and
improved donor coordination; and
(iv)  to strengthen the linkages between research and extension
through on-farm research in collaboration with the extension
services taking into account farmers' problems, constraints
and wishes.
3.02        The Project would provide the initial support to enable Government
and FOFIFA to achieve these objectives. During the NARP first phase the
target would be to get high priority research programs fully operational (para
2.20). These programs are:
-     four nationally coordinated multi-disciplinary commodity
research programs on foodcrops: rice (largely financed by
USAID and France with assistance from IRRI and CIRAD, and by
IDA through the Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project,
Cr. 1337-MAG), maize (with financial assistance from the
African Development Bank (AfDB) and the E.uropean Comunuity
(EC)), tubers (mainly cassava), and groundnuts;



- 15 -
five multi-disciplinary programs on industraia  and export
crops: cotton (partly financed by France, Caisse Centrale de
Coopération Economique, and IDA through the Cotton
Development Project, Cr. 1433-NAG, with assistance from
CIRAD), sugar (partly financed by CCCE and SIRANALA, a sugar
company, with assistance from CIRAD), coffee (partly
financed by CCCE with assistance from CIRAD), vanilla, and
pepper (export crop research is partly financed through the
crop stabilization funds);
three animal production commodity research programss milk
(also conducted outside FOFIFA by FIFAMANOR with financial
assistance from NORAD), meat from ruminants (beef and
mutton), and meat from monogastric animals (pork, poultry,
and rabbits);
-     one inland fisheries program;
_     four forestry and soil conservation research programss fuel
wood, industrial (resinous) vood (both programs financed
under the Forests Management and Protection Project, Cr.
1e78-MAG), soil conservation (including agro-forestry,
program scheduled to be partly financed by Swiss Bilateral
Aid), and natural forest management and conservation;
threa agricultural technology research programss post-
harvest technology, agricultural mechanization (mainly
animal traction), and on-farm irrigation efficiency; and
six regional fr ming systems research programs, covering
Madagascar's major agro-ecological zones: the Lac Alaotra
(Cala), Fianarantsoa (Kianjavato), and Antananarivo
(Antsirabe) programs are presently partly financed by CCCE,
and supported by CIRAD; IFAD has agreed to finance part of
the programs in Fianarantsoa and Antsirabe, and France and
IDA (Pilot Agricultural Extension Project) are financing
part of the program in the Antananarivo region, all hitherto
supported by CIRAD.
B.   Summary Project Description
3.03        To support these prog-ams the Project would include four major
componentss (a) institutional strengthening, (b) research quality and
adaptability improvement, (c) human resources development, and (d)
rehabilitation and expansion of installations and equipment. Under these
components, the Project would support the folloving actions:
(a)   Institutional Strengthening
(i) provide adequate staff and operating funds for
research program execution;



- 16 -
tii) increase the autonony and accountability of FOFIFA
through amendments to its statutory mandate ln
financial management and reporting;
(iii) strengthen research station management through the
creation within FOFIFA of a Research Support Services
Directorate, responsible for the management of all
stations and laboratories;
(iv) strengthen FOFIFA's financial management and
accounting capacity;
(v)  strengthen FOFIFA's and MRSTD's capacity for donor
coordination through the creation of a formal Donor
coordinating mechanism; and
(vi) strengthen linkages with universities and external
research organizations, including the International
Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs).
(b)   Research Quality and Adaptability Improvement.
(i) improve research design and POFIFA's data analysis
capacity through the creation of a Biometrics and
Data Analysis Unit;
(ii) further integrate animal production, soil conservation
and agro-forestry research into f.àrming systems
research;
(iii) strengthen research on production economics, marketing
and human resources, as vell as capabilities for
evaluating and applying new technology within the
Farming Systems Research Department;
(iv)  improve the effectiveness of linkages with
agricultural extension through improvements in
farmers' constraints diagnosis capability, increased
on-farm research, and the creation of regional
research-extension committees;
(v)  strengthen the multi-disciplinary team approach along
commodity problem area lines through the nomination of
National Program Coordinators; and
(vi) reinforce research monitoring and evaluation through
the introduction of a research program review system,
including research protocol reviews, report writing
standards and requirements, mid-term and pluri-annual
reviews, and a research data resource management
system.



- 17 -
(c)   Human Resources Development.
(i) create a Personnel Management and Human Resources
Development Service;
(ii) establish long term manpower planning. education and
training for scientific, technical and administrative
staff iu the form of a Human Resources Development
Master Plan;
(iii) improve personnel management policies and procedures,
including the introduction of incentives for
scientific staff to work and live on remote research
stations; and
(iv) provide for post-graduate education and training of
scientific, technical and administr&tive staff.
d)   Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and Equipment.
(i) rationalize FOFIFA's research station network and
reinforce its research station development and
project implementation capability through the
creation of a technical support service; and
(ii) rehabilitate, or construct, and equip FOFIFA's
Headquarters and Central Laboratories in Antananarivo,
eight Regional Research Centers, four Research
Stations and five Sub-Stations.
C. Detailed Features
Crop Research Programs 31
3.04        Rice Research Program.  Madagascar is characterized by its great
local diversity in agro-ecological conditions. The main long term thrust of
the irrigated rice breeding program would therefore be on adaptation to
diverse conditions, in particular with respect to altitude variations and cold
resistance. Many of Madagascar's land races are already among the most cold
resistant in the world. Other important orientations included in the breeding
program would be: weed resistance; and adaptation to soil borne deficiencies
(phosphorus deficiency or fixation, iron toxicity and soil acidity all occur
frequently). The program would also cover research on farming techniques,
fertilization, and the use of soil amendments; and integrated pest control.
Rainfed rice research would focus on drought and disease (Pyriculariosis)
resistance.
3/       A more detailed description of the research programs operations
and actions is presented in the Implementation Volume and the
preparation document.



- 18 -
3.05        Maize Research Progr m.  Maize is a crop with a very important
potential in Madagascar. Its development at present is mainly hampered by the
absence of good quality seed. The focus of the breeding program would be on
long cycle synthetics and poly-hybrids. that do not require frequent seed
reneval. Earlier biological pest control research would be continued.
3.06        Cassava Research Program.  Like everywhere else in the de'reloping
world, cassava is a subsistence crop of increasing importance in a risk averse
enviroxment, because of its availability during periods of food insecurity and
its easy storage in the ground. The priority would be to maintain and upgrade
the extensive collection of clones introduce'l in the 1960's and kept at Cala.
A second step would be to augment the collection with the introduction of
early, virus-resistant, sweet varieties. An inventory of the impact of major
cassava pests and diseases needs updating and completion, and particular
attention would be given to finding solutions for insect damage on dried
cassava. On-farm adaptive and comparative trials, combined with further
research on the placa of cassava in various farming systems, would also be
part of the program. Innovations in post-harvest technology (storage of fresh
cassava and various forms of processing) developed elsewhere (e.g. by CIAT),
may need to be tried out and further adapted to Malagasy condJtions. These
would make cassava more interesting as a cash crop.
3.07        Groundnuts Research Program.  Groundnuts are an important crop,
particularly for the dry south-west, an area with limited possibilities for
other cash crops. As an oil crop, it used to be widely grown up to the end of
1970s. The Valencia varieties were used for export as high quality
confectionery groundnuts. The country still has a comparative economic
advantage in groundnut production. The main problem at present is seed
availability. Varietal research would focus rn disease resistance, including
in particular resistance to Aflatoxin carrying fungi. Other important research
orientations would include: dormancy, oil content, grain/hull ratio and
harvest conditions. A particularly important research operation would focus
on integrated pest management taphids and soil-borne and defoliating insects).
3.08        Cotton Research Program.  Cotton is the largest user of chemical
inputs of all crops in Madagascar, both in terms of fertilizers and of
pesticides. Every year, a cotton crop receives 10 to 11 preventive pesticide
treatments. This puts a heavy financial burden on farmers, makes the crop
vulnerable to price swings of inputs and outputs, and is a major concern with
respect teo health hazards and the environment. Therefore, the priority focus
of cotton research would be on integrated pest control, including threshold
treatment requirements, both in economic terms and in terms of efficiency of
treatment, combined with further investigations on curative rather than
preventive treatments, and biological control measures. Continued varietal
research would give priority to disease and insect resistance, in combination
with fiber quality and lint out-turn. On-farm production systems research for
small farmers will focus mainly on integration of cotton production with maize
and groundnuts and the best use to be made of the after-effects of cotton
fertilization.
3.09        Sugarcane Research Program.  Sugarcane plantations are presently
being rehabilitated with financing from CCCE. In this context, research would
focus on maintenance of the existing varietal collection and updating through
the introduction of new varieties. New varieties are expected to be



- 19 -
introduced using tissue culture; the program will focus on disease and
parasite resistance. On-farm research would give priority to the economics of
fertilizer usage. Research on the use of by-products, combined with the
recycling of sugar factory effluent to economize on fertilizer usage and to
find solutions for environmental hazards, would constitute an important part
of the research program.
3.10        Coffee Research Program.  In the past, coffee research in
Madagascar has mainly been concerned with Robusta coffee. Only limited work
has been done on Arabica, although variety collections are maintained.
Results of research on Robusta are fairly widely applicable in the East Coast
area. Growing conditions for Arabica in the Central Highlands are extremely
variable, particularly with respec'- to rainfall, temperature, and soil
conditions.  Madagascar only exports Robusta coffee, the quality of which has
decreased steadily (see also para. 1.11).  The world market prospects for
Robusta are limited, whereas Arabica steadfastedly obtains higher prices and
has better market prospects. In line with these changing prospects, research
would increase its attention to Arabica coffee, focussing on: finding
performing varieties adapted to the varying growing conditions in the Central
Highlands, quality and market requirements, disease resistance, and drought
and cold tolerance. Research would pay particular attention to intercropping
with food crops (in particular during the early years), in combination with
the economics of fert±lizer usage, and integrated pest management. A large
part of the adaptive research will need to be undertaken on fields of small
farmers to take account of the variability in growing conditions.  This is a
fairly new concept for coffee research, hitherto largely undertaker on
research stations.
3.11        Vanilla Research Program.  Madagascar supplies about 80Z of the
vorld market for natural vanilla. Although no spectacular growth is expected
in this market, vanilla is an important source of foreign exchange and it is
prudent to maintain a minimum research capacity. Some new varieties are
available but they require to be tested under farmer conditions for quality
and yield. Future research will focus on wilt, the most important vanilla
disease, and staking methods and sources.
3.12        Pepper Research Program.  Madagascar is an important producer of
pickled green pepper, a product for the rapidly growing delicatessen market.
Market prospects for dry pepper are also good. To date, research has been
limited. The main problems encountered in farmer's fields are wilt and
parasite attacks. Research would therefore focus on disease resistant
varieties, combined with research on treatments and improved farming
practices.
Animal Production Research Programs
3.13        Milk Production Research Progra  .  Hitherto, livestock restarch
has focussed on breed improvement, animal health, range land improvement and
fodder production. However, research results have never been taken up by
livestock owners, who preferred traditional, extensive husbandry systems.
Over the past decades, with growing population density in the agricultural
areas, the focus of producers has shifted to integration with agriculture,
e.g. stall feeding of coWs for milk production and the use of agricultural by-



- 20 -
products to meet fodder requirements. Future research would therefore focus
on increases in milk production through improved feeding techniques, animal
husbandry and breed improvement by farmers, i.e. a gradual adaptation of the
animal to improved on-farm feeding conditions, rather than the reverse.
3..'L4      Beef and Mutton Production Research Program.  As for milk,
livestock research on beef cattle has in the past also focussed on breed
ixprovement. Yet, intensification of traditional husbandry systems has never
taken place and production has probably declined as bottom lands in the range
country crucial for substaining animals during the dry season, have been taken
over for food crop production. Therefore, future research would be preceded
by production systems research to develop research requirements/orientations
for a variety of production systems, de-emphasizing breed improvement in favor
of nutritional requirements and animal husbandry.
3.15        Pork, Poultry and Rabbit Production Research Program.  With
increasing population pressure, and the intensification of agricultural
production systems in various parts of the country, the production of pork,
poultry and rabbits has gained in importance. In particular in the vicinity
of urban centers, on-farm meat production has berjme an important source of
monetary revenue, on occasion crowding out more traditional cash crops. The
focus of research would again be on animal nutrition (in particular crop by-
products), combin, vith animal husbandry, i.e. research on disease preventing
rearing conditions.
Forestry, Agro-Forestry, Soil Conservation and Inland Fisheries Research
Programs
3.16        Inland Fisheries Research Program.  Fish constitutes an important
paxt of the Malagasy diet. Pisciculture research concerns mainly fish culture
in rice fields and aquaculture techniques (fish ponds). The main problems
constraining production are parasites and predators. The focus of this
program is on high performance disease resistant species (breeding for
production and sanitary conditions of breed stock), conservation techniques,
and the economics of various forms of pisciculture (including research on
markets and consumption patterns).
3.17        Fuelwood Research Program.  With a growing population, energy
requirements are increasing while supplies are dwindling as a result of
deforestation and a general lack of alternatives to woody species as a source
of energy. Urban centers are generally growing faster than rural communities,
and s0 does the need for relatively cheap sources of energy. Most of the past
and future research concerns reforestation and wood lots, focussing on
varieties best adapted to local conditions, on their growing speed and
capacity for regrowth, protection techniques for young plantations and more
efficient charcoaling techniques (supported under the Forests Management and
Protection Project, Cr. 1878-MAG).
3.18        Industrial Wood Research Program.  Madagascar has extensive
industrial wood plantatiuns in the Mangoro area, managed by FANALAMANGA and
supported by the Forests Management and Protection Project (Cr. 1878-NAG) and
its predecessors (para. 1.16). Adaptive research by FOFIFA is mainly
concerned with the economics of fertilization and related growth rate (a



- 21 -
persistent problem in the Mar.goro plantations); the post-harvest regeneration
of tree stands and replanting; and the economics of various industrial uses of
wood, quality and market prospects.
3.19        Natural Foreet Research Program.  The natural forest reserves of
Madagascar are dwindling rapidly as a result of uncontrolled slash and burn
techniques used by the local population.  Malagasy forests have shown little
capacity for natural regeneration, and farmers are mining the natural resource
base by leaving cleared land on steep elopes exposed to severe erosion
('tavyl) after a few years of cultivation. The research program would focus
on how to best protect the remaining natural forests, and if it is indeed
possible to exploit part of them in such a way that natural generation is
ensured. It is possible that this program will be transferred to the newly
created National Environmental Research Center, which is scheduled for further
support under the Environmental Protection Project, presently under
preparation.
3.20        Soil Conservation Research Program.  Soil erosion occurs
everywhere in Madagascar, often called 'the bleeding islanda because of the
enormous quantities of top soil suspended in runoff waters flowing into the
ocean. In four cases, erosion is directly affecting agricultural production
potential and the livelihood of small farmers, throughs (i) the siltation of
irrigation canals, or, in severe cases, deposits of sterile sands on otherwise
fertile soils, because of severe erosion of unprotected watersheds; tii) the
"tavy' system rAferred to in the preceding paragraph; (iii) the increasing
cultivation of staep slopes (Ctanety") in the Central Highlands as a result of
population pressure; and (iv) the annual burning of range lands on otherw3se
denuded hill sides (particularly in the Middle West region). The soil
Conservation research program would concentrate mainly on 'tavy' and 'tanety"
production systems. It would include research on: on-farm use of woody
species (agro-forestry), bunding, terracing, alley cropping, vegetative
hedging (vetiver grass and other multi-purpose species), and erosion
preventing farming techniques. Most of this research will, by its nature,
need to be carried out on farmers fields. Therefore, this research will be
closely coordinated with the farming systems research programs, with as its
central theme: "production improvement through erosion control'.
Agricultural Technology Research Programs
3.21        Post-Harvest Technology Research Program.  Present research in
this important area, often constraining the marketability of farm produce, is
practically non-existent and research capacity will need to be built up over
the Project period. The focus of this highly adaptive research would be on:
on-farm storage of perishables, quality maintenance and enhancement of farm
produce, and on-farm preparation and processing, with the emphasis on
marketability. An important component of this program would be to enhance the
nutritional value of farm produce.
3.22        Agricultural Mechanization Research Program.  The use of ox-
traction is widespread in Madagascar. Equipment for land preparation and
harvesting has been developed in the past but is not always adapted to the
varied soil conditions and farming systems. It is therefore important that
adaptive research on farm implements be re-activated. The program would also



- 22 -
include research on seimple drying and other conservation equipment in
conjunction with the post-harvest technology research described in the
preceding paragraph.
3.23        On-Farm Irriaation Efficiency Research Program.  This new program
vould focus on on-farm irrigation efficiency improvement, an area hitherto
neglected in Madagascar, despite the importance of irrigated rice. Thia
research vould be undertaken in collaboration vith and in support of the rice
research program (para. 3.04), and focus largely on the great diversity in
irrigation conditions on the traditional schemes (but also to a certain extent
on the larger schemes)s going from simple vater harvesting on terraces
upstream, to vaterlogged conditions (sometimes requiring floating rice
varieties) at the downstream end of the scheme. The program viil also have to
take accouant of the variations from year to year in vater availability early
in the season, determining farmer behavior vith respect to choice of variety,
transplanting, or direct seeding.
Farmin8 Systems Research (FSR) and On-Farm Reaearch Programs
3.24        Farming systems research, mostly referred to as «recherche-
développement', is relatively new in Madagascar. Three programs are presently
operationals one established in the Lac Alaotra region in 1985, focusses on
rice based production systems; the second program concentrates on systems
based on coffee and other export crops; and the third and youngest program is
focussed on production systems prevailing in the Central Highlands. The first
problem to be addressed under the Project would be the understaffing of some
of the programs and lack of some skills, in particular farm economics. Over
the Project duration, each of the eight regional research centers vould
gradually become the base for a multi-disciplinary FSR team.
3.25        In principle farming systems research comprises four componentst
(i) an initial diagnostic survey to identify and quantify
rapidly technical, economic and social production
constraints; followed by
(ii) an analysis of agrarian production systems (by homogeneous
groups of target farmers) in the region surveyed, leading to
identification of main constraints in their order of
importance;
(iii) testina of solutions to identified constraints, both on-
station and vith farmers on their fields ("recherche
dialoguée"); and finally
(iv) pre-extension testing of new technology on farmers' fields
to familiarize extension agents with the new techniques.
Close cooperation vith the extension service is essential for the success of
FSR. Procedures for this cooperation should be included in the research
protocols, starting vith the diagnostic surveys, discussion of 'solutions to
be tested' vith farmers and extension staff, and involvement of extension
staff in on-farm testing. FSR staff vould also have the obligation to set



- 23 -
aside a certain amount of time for training of extension staff, which would
present occasions to receive feedback.
Institutional Strengthening  41
3.26        FOFIFA's management capability vould be strengthened throughs
(i> the creation of a Research Support Services Directorate;
(ii) the recruitment of professional accounting services; and
(iii) the establishment of a donor coordinating mechanism.
3.27        As a condition of Credit effectiveness, FOFIFA would establish a
Research Support Services Directorate, headed by a director nominated by its
Board of Directors, with qualifications, experience and terme of reference
acceptable tu IDA. All research centers, stations and laboratories would fall
under this new directorate. Regional research center managers and central
laboratory chiefs would report directly to the director. The purpose of this
reorganization vould be to separate management of research from the management
of stations, laboratories, etc. All logistical functions (supply of inputs
and spare parts), station and farm management and maintenance, station
development and commercial activities (sales of station produce, seeds,
vaccines, and breeding animals) vould become the responsibility of the new
directorate and its director. Detailed descriptions of the new organization
are given in chapter V and and the Implementation Volume.
3.28        Strenathening FOFIFA's Financial Management and Accounting.  In
order to attack the problems of financial management and accounting that
FOuFA has erperienced (paras. 2.07 - 2.12), program of rehabilitation vill be
carried out, with three branches of activity.
Ci) Governuent vill amend the statutory framework to make FOFIFA
management accountable for financial management. The role
of the Ministry of Finance agent ("agent comptable") vill be
reduced to the treasury function, and that of the Government
Commissioner to sample ex post checks. The payment povers
of FOFIFA managers vill be increased. Assurances on these
points vere obtained at negotiations and their
implementation is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
(ii) FOFIFA vill reorganize its internal financial management bys
e decentralizing financial management to managers in the
field;
e creating a new general accounting service, to take over
the function from the Ministry of Finance agent; and
Al See FOFIFA's organization chart in Annex (Chart 1)



- 24 -
These points would be included in the new statutory
framework.
Assurances on these points vere obtained at negotiations.
(iii) FOFIFA vill undertake a series of actions to bring its
accounting up to standard and to ensure that both management
information and the financial accounts are produced promptly
and accurately, and that the auditors can give the latter a
clean certificate (para 4.25):
o revision of procedures to install adequate internal
controls;
o  computerization of the budget and financial accounting
sy3tems;
o  staff development, as one of the first modules of the
Human Resources Development Master Plan (para. 3.36); and
o  accounting catch-up and verification of all balance sheet
items.
3.29        These actions vill be undertaken in strict collaboration vith the
auditors. FOFIFA vill implement the program with technical assistance (about
30 months) and short-term consultancies.
3.30        To continue and formalize the process etarted with the first
informal donor meeting called by MRSTD in September 1988, followed by the
participation of the major donors in the IDA appraisal mission in January 1989
at the request of MRSID, Government would call annually on all donors
interested in agricultural research in Madagascar (i.e. including those
financing agricultural research outaide FOFIFA) to attend the Research Funding
Steering Committee meetings (para. 4.09) to discuss and agree on FOFIFA's
proposed research programs, annual budgets and financing plans. IDA's approval
of programs and budgets would be contingent upon other donors having reviewed
FOFIFA's proposals and presented their comments. Assurances on these points
vere obtained at negotiations.
Research Quality and Adaptability Improvement
3.31        The quality and adaptability of FOFIFA's research effort vould be
strengthened throughs
(i) the creation of a Biometrics and Data Analysis Unit;
(ii) the nomination of National Research Program Coordinators;
(iii) the establishment of a Research Programming, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit; and
(iv) the setting up of procedures to strengthen research-
extension linkages.



- 25 -
3.32        As part of its reorganization, FOFIFA would create a Biometrics
and Data Analysis Unit, under the responsibility of the Scientific Director.
The unit would be headed by a biometrician with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. The function and role of the
unit as agreed at appraisal are described in the Implementation Volume. The
unit would assist research workers with research design and data analysis,
part of its function thus being on-the-job training. It would review all
research protocols, and be responsible for data analysis not being done
directly by the research worker concerned. Prior to the publication of
research results, the unit would review the data analysis. An important
function of the unit would be to gradually introduce available new software
for research data analysis and to train FOFIFA scientists in its use on
individual PCs.
3.33        For each research program, the research department chiefs would
nominate a National Research Program Coordinator, to ensure the internal
coherence of the programs and the adherence to a multi-disciplinary team
approach. The coordinators would be responzible for annual program and budget
presentations, and provide the elements for FOFIFA's annual report.
3.34        As a second staff function attached to the Scientific Director,
FOFIF>6 would create a Research Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
The main purpose of the unit would be (i) to continue and further develop the
research programming system introdczad with ISNAR's assistance under the
Second Agricultural Institutions Development Project (Cr. 1709-MAG), and (ii)
to develop, over time, a coherent M&E system to ensure that research is cost-
effective and concentrated on high priority problems. In the first instance,
M&E would focus on developing a system for the establishment of research
priorities. Subsequently, it should develop into a tool for FOFIFA managers.
Ultimately, the system will develop a capacity to measure the impact of
research.
3.35        In order for research to be useful, it is essential that much
closer links are established between research and extension, and between
research and farmers. First, internal procedures for FOFIFA would stipulate
that all on-farm research ('recherche dialoguée*) be discussed in detail with
the farmers concerned, and adapted to farmers' insights, in the presence of
local extension staff. It would be mandatory to describe such proposed
procedures in detail in the research protocols for on-farm research. Second,
close collaboration would need to be established between the FSR teams and
field extension staff. Both are using the results of the same diagnostic
surveys (para. 3.25). FOFIFA management would mandate that all test surveys
and questionnaires be fully discussed and agreed with local field extension
staff. Third, the experience with regional research-extension committees,
first successfully introduced in the Lac Alaotra Region in conjunction with
the Rice Intensification Project (Cr.1337-MAG), would be gradually extended to
the other natural regions of Madagascar. Fourth, research staff would be
required to set aside an agreed portion of their time to train extension
staff, which would also provide an excellent vehicle to receive feedback.
Assurances on these points vere obtained at n2gotiations.
Human Resources Development



- 26 -
3.36        To strengthen the development of human resources, FOFIFA vould:
(i) establish a Personnel Management and Human Resources
Development Unit;
(ii) prepare a Human Resources Development Master Plan;
(iii) develop a career planning and incentive system for
scientific staff; and
(iv) provide staff education and training opportunities.
3.37        Staffing.  FOFIFA would reduce its lower level, mostly contractual
staff, as a condition of Credit effectiveness. It vas agreed that reductions
would amount to 110 staff before end 1989 and that by December 31, 1990, staff
levels vould be further reduced by 140 persons, bringing the total reduction
to 250 (down from 1,156 staff on March 31, 1989). The extra costs, consisting
of unemployment benefits required by existing labor laws and retraining
expenditures, vould be borne by Government in the context of the Economic
Management and Social Adjustment Program (Cr.1967-MAG). By 1996, The
approximate staff composition of FOFIFA is expected to be as follows:  15
higher level management staff with scientist training, 106 scientists, 94
research collaborators, 220 research technicians, 18 station and center
managers, 435 technical staff, 320 administrative staff, and a seasonal
vorkforce equivalent of approximately 300, down from the present 500, due to
increased mechanization of research operations to improve research efticiency,
quality and timeliness. Total staff employed vould thus be about the same as
at present, but vith an entirely different composition and skills mix.  Over
the seven year period total national research staff would approximately double
as presented in Table 3.1. Detailed tables on research staff distribution by
program and discipline (specialization) over the project period are presented
in the Working Papers and summarîzed in Annex 1.
Table 3.1
Future (1996) Distribution of National Research Staff
M.Sc.                B.Sc.
or higher         or equivalent     Total
Crop Production                    49                  27              76
Animal Production                  18                  14              32
Forestry and Fisheries             18                  19             37
Technology                         8                   il             19
Farming Systens                    17                  18             35
Central Laboratories                7                   5             12
Scientific Directorate              4                   -              4
TOTAL                      121                   94             215
3.38        Before creating the Research Support Services Directorate (para.
3.27), FOFIFA vould prepare a Human Resources Development Master Plan,



- 27 -
according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The plan would contain
detailed function descriptions according to the new FOFIFA organization,
including a description of responsibilities and accountability. Profiles would
be prepared, describing education, training, experience and other specific
s skills, required to fulfill these functions. Staff would be evaluated,
followed by a skills gap analysis through the matching of profiles and
evaluations. On the basis of this exercise, function descriptions and in some
cases the organization itself or operational procedures would be changed to
adapt these to available staff skills. The end of the exercise would be a
training program for existing staff; some dismissals; clear career paths;
procedures for growth promotion, including annual evaluation procedures and
criteria for all categories of staff; and clear recruitment criteria for new
staff. Laboratory technicians, tractor drivers, equipment operators and
workshop staff would be tested to determine on-the-job training needs. Funds
have been included under the project to provide professional assistance to
FOFIFA for the preparation of the plan and for in-house training courses.
Training
3.39        Starting in 1989, the Agricultural Faculty (ESSA) of the
University of Antananarivo has added MSc. programs. Of the 57 BSc. level
graduates presently employed by FOFIFA (para.2.05), many of them only a few
years out of school, about 23 are expected to return for graduate training.
In the future, FOFIFA intends to continue to recruit promising undergraduate
students, who, after one to two years would return to the university to
complete their post-graduate studies. Under the proposed Credit about 50
scholarships are provided for these cases. Other training programs are for
in-country training in research station management; practical training of
laboratory technicians, tractor drivers, equipment operators and workshop
staff; training for accounting and administrative staff; five two-year
scholarships for post-graduate specialization abroad; and funds for short term
training abroad (also including attendance of seminars, workshops and
scientific congresses), equivalent to about 20 courses of three months
duration.
3.40        Incentives.  Under present civil service regulations, increasing
salaries for research staff and introducing more differentiation in payment
scales to allow for the introduction of an incentive payment system, will not
be possible due to Government's severe budgetary constraints (para. 1.09).
Under the NARP, an incentive system would be introduced to compensate staff
for extra costs incurred by living and working on outlyiig stations,
consisting of free housing, additional medical insurance benefits, and
education benefits for secondary school education. As an incentive fir
qualifying individual scientists (or teams), annual cash prizes for not more
than five outstanding performers will be made available, according to
procedures acceptable to the Association. Detailed proposals for staff
compensation and ewards would be presented by FOFIFA by January 1, 1990.
Support ta the Agricultural Faculty (ESSA) of the University of Antananarivo.
3.41        To improve research quality and to meet training requirements in
biometrics and research design (para. 2.05), the project would support
additional courses in these subjects at the ESSA, as follows: (i) over the



- 28 -
first two years of the project, each of the 50 existing researchers would
attend two three-week mandatory training courses, custom-designed to the
specific needs of each of the five research departments of FOFIFA (10 three-
week courses in total); (ii) graduate students presently in the system, and
the 23 (para. 3.39) entering the graduate program midstream, who vill not have
had sufficient education in mathematics and applied statistics during their
under-graduate studies, vould receive supplementary courses to give them the
required level of skills; and (iii) the whole program of under-graduate and
graduate courses in mathematics, applied statistics, biometry and research
design vould be redesigned so as to make the supplementary courses superfluous
in three to four years time. The project vould provide 16 PCs, software, 5
printers. a 180 m2 building, two professors Cone internationally recruited not
later than January 1, 1990) and training operating costs. Details regarding
course content, number of hours, computing equipment and detailed costs are
provided in the Implementation Volume.  Credit proceeds vould be made
available to ESSA as a grant under a Subsidiary Agreement vith terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Signature of this agreement constitutes a
condition of Credit Effectiveness. During negotiations it vas agreed that the
responsibilities of ESSA under the Project vould be clearly defined in the
agreement, including an action program and time-table, separate accounts and
audit, and procurement independent from FOFIFA.
Construction and Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and Equipment.
3.42        Of the total of 31 existing permanent research sites (centers,
stations and sub-stations. para. 2.03), 17 vould remain in the system 51 and
the rest vould be closed.  FOFIFA intends to give the buildings and grounds in
long term leases to farmers and private enterprises, whicn should generate
some additional inzome. In Antananarivo, the new headquarters, the research
departments and the laboratories vould be regrouped. A new regional center
vould be built in the Central Highlands at Fianarantsoa, and a new station at
Antsirabe as an extension of the existing wheat, tropical pasture and dairy
research station managed by FIFAMANOR. On December 31, 1989, at the latest,
FOFIFA would stop all operations and expenditures for research sites to be
closed. This vould constitute a condition of disbursement for related civil
vorks expenditures. A few exceptions to this general rule have been agreed
durin; negotiations, to continue research observation cycles on perennial
crops for one additional year (intil December 31, 1990) on three sites (Ilwka-
Est, Ambanja and Sahambavy) to allow for the transfer of valuable coffee and
*           cocoa variety collections to sites remaining in the system.  For these three
*           sites, agreements vere reached on maximum acreage and numbers of staff to
maintain them.  Over the course of the project, some temporary new research
sites, vithout permanent installations, for forestry, agro-forestry and soil
conservation research may need to be added. Similarly, for reasons of
efficiency and flexibility, offices and housing for farming systems, forestry
and soil conservation research staff vould not necessarily be constructed at
5/ the central installations in Antananarivo; the 8 regional centers in
Mahitsy, Lac Alaotra, Kianjasoa, Fianarantsoa, Tulear, Ivoloina (Toamasina)
Miadana and Antalaha; the 4 stations in Bealanana, Antsirabe, Kianjavato
and Moramanga; and the  5 sub-stations in Manankazo, Marovoay, Bezaha,
Beforona and Tanandave.



- 29 -
the sites of the centers or stations. FOFIFA vould present a proposal for
selection criteria for the new Fianarantsoa center, and final site selection
vould be subject to IDA approval. Title clearance of FOFIFA's fixed assets in
respect of land and buildings vould constitute a condition of disbursement for
civil vorks on each of the research sites.
3.43        The civil vorks program (US$ 9.9 million in constant terms,
excluding taxes) vould consist of delayed maintenance or rehabilitation of
approximately 30,000 m2 of operational buildings (see Table 3.2) and 13,000 m2
of housing. About 5,000 m2 of operational buildings would be newly
constructed or constitute enlargement of existing ehysical plant, including
FOFIFA's new headquarters at Antananarivo (1,850 m ) and the new center at
Fianarantsoa (1,025 m2).  About 15,000 m2 of new housing would be constructed
outside Antananarivo (173 units for research staff, technical and
administrative staff, and specialized vorkers), to overcome the serious
housing shortage, preventing research staf f  rom living and vorking away from
Antananarivo (para. 2.04).    In addition, a program of enlargement of
existing housing units of about 7,000 m2, is included, to improve the living
conditions of lover level technical and administrative staff.
3.44        The design of FOFIFA's installations in Antananarivo can only take
place after two preliminary studies will have been completed: (i) a
laboratory requirement study based on type, number and frequency of analyses,
as budgeted in the research protocols, augnented by a reasonable estimate of
analysis requirements for third parties, based on past experience; and (ii) an
analysis of the orientation and priorities of research on post-harvest
technology and agricultural mechanization. Both studies vould be executed with
the assistance of independent consultants according to terns of reference and
qualifications acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, FOFIFA agreed to
complete the first study by December 31, 1989, and the second by June 30,
1990.
3.45        Equipment.  The total amount to be invested in equipment over the
seven-year Project period is estimated at US$ 11.4 million excluding taxes.
This amount includes renevalss vehicles every four years, tractors end PCs
every five years. A summary of vehicle, tractor and PC requirements is also
presented in Table 3.2. Detailed equipment lists are included in the NARP
Preparation Report for workshops and laboratory equipment, a radio network to
improve communications with outlying stations, built-in vall safes for
stations without easy access to banking facilities, and irrigation equipment.
The laboratory equipment liats vould be adjusted following the study referred
to above (para. 3.44).



- 30 -
Table 3.2
Civil Works and Eauipment Reauirements
Civil Works              Delayed Maintenance          New Construction
or Rehabilitation              or Extension
Operational          Housing    Operational   Housing
Buildings                       Buildings     _
Antananarivo           8,000                --         1,850           --
Mahitsy (center)         --                 --           325         2,325
Antsirabe (station)      --                 --           400         2,400
Bealanana (station)      --                 --           --            --
Beforona (sub-stat.)    --                  --           100           450
Manankazo (sub-stat.)                       --           --            --
Moramanga (station)      --                 --           --            --
Cala (center)          9,250              4,375          --          2,725
Kianjasoa (center)    2,700               3,450          175         2,775
Fianarantsoa (center)   --                  --         1,025         3,125
Kianjavato (station)    675                 750          200           450
Tulear (center)        1,000                800          100         1,900
Tanandave (sub-stat.) 1,075                 250          --            725
Bezaha (sub-station)    --                  --           --            --
Miadana (center)       2,975              2,025          525         2,225
Marovoay (sub-stat.)    --                  --           --            --
ivoloina (center)      2,325                475          275         1,950
Antalaha (center)      1,775                825          --            700
Antananarivo
University              --                 --           175           --
EquiDment
buses                    16   8)            tractors 80 HP 18  54)
vehiles                 20 (10)            tractors 50 HP 26   6)
4 vheel drive vehicles  30 <15)            pover-driven
cultivators  25        3,8)
light txucks             21 (10)           PC6  (1 & 2 MB) 70 (20) - FOFIFA
medium trucks (ST)       12 C 6)            portable PCs   15 C 5) - FOFIFA
motorcycles              38 (17)            PCs (8 0 B)    16       - ESSA
*numbers betveen brackets:  renevals vithin project period, included in total.
3.46        Agricultural equipmaent includes   land preparation, planting,
cultivation, harvesting, processing and storage equipment. Most of this
equipment is tractor-driven. During appraisal, it vas found that much of the
existing agricultural equipment is out-dated and not adapted. Therefore, lt
vas agreed that FOFIFA vould recruit a consultant vith terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to IDA, to recomuend agricultural equipment profiles
Cincluding tractors) and workshops requirements for each of the stations and



- 31 -
centers, based on detailed research program description. The consultant would
also assist FOFIPA in preparing bidding documentss in the design of in-country
trainirg courses for workshop staff, tractor drivers and equipment operators
(para. 3.38); and in setting-up equipment maintenance schedules. During
negotiations, FOFIFA agreed to complete equipment profiles and maintenance
schedules for each of its research stations by December 31, 1989.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.01        The costs of the National Agricultural Research Program (NAkP)
have been calculated to irclude both existing and new activities managed by
FOFIFA, whatever the source of finance, during the seven-year implementation
period, 1990-96. Costs also include preparation and start-up activities being
financed under PPF in 1989. Only grant-financed technical assistance has been
excluded (about 202 of total cost). Costs thus include virtually all
activities to be un'ertaken under the national agricultural research effort
over the NARP period. This presentation has been adopted in order to
emphasize that IDA is financing parts of a coherent national program, rather
than a free-standing project, and to highlight the present and future costs to
the country of the priority to be accorded to the research program.
4.02        Costs calculated on this basis are summarized in Table 4.1 and
presented in more detail in Annex 4 and Vorking Paper 10. They total $70.62
million over the seven-year period (including taxes and contingencies). The
foreign exchange component is 322. Base costs reflect prices and exchange
rates at appraisal in January 1989.
4.03        Physical contingencies have been calculated at the following
ratess
Civil vorks       102-252 depending on location (average 172)
Equipment         In some instances a physical contingency of 152 vas
applied due to uncertainty over useful life of
existing equipement, and therefore over replacement
requirements.



- 32 -
TABLE 4.1
144DAGM8AR
PROO0ME NATIONALE OE LA REOERHE A0RICO&
SMSRV ACCOLMTS COST BUJKAR
(FMNOMIIIii') îj                Qust 'o0o)
--------------   -- ~--------~--~- ~-- - ------ - --    - --  ---S Toal
Locel    Foregn      Total       Local    Foret n     Total    Eachn.      Cwt-
I. INVEhTMT CDSTS
A. CENIE CIVIL (FOFIFA)
1. ADMINSSTRATIN ET LAbTPRE       2,000.9   l,704.5    s,7a6.5    1,210.4    1,070.0    2 94.2          4e          4
2. LCIMENT                        4,08.0    a 482.7    7,27.7    2,572-9    2.191.8    4 /64.4         4e          s
3. BATIMENT D'EXPLOITATION         s54.0       464.a     1 00e.3     844.9      293.8      es.o         48          1
4. EAU/ELECTRICITE                  822.8      700.7    1,528.2      M20.6      443.5      984.0        4e          g
Sub-Total 08'IIE CIVIL (FOFIFA)        7,438.4    6.332.2   1;,76e.7    4.704.7   4,007.7    8.712.4         48        15
B. EQUIl4V (FOFIFA)                    2,8S2.S    8 s.498.   a 831.3   1,470.3    2,214.4    a,690.7         e0         e
C. MOB., MAT. ET FORNI. (FOFIFA)       1.637.0     64S.7    2,182.8    1.038.0      845.8    1,8S1.4         2S         2
D. MATERIB. AURICoLE (FOFIFA)          8.,3.3       97l.6    4 ,s7.9    2.459.7      S14.9   a.074.S         20         S
E. VB11CULES (FOFIFA)                  2,780.8    8.274.4    8o063.8    1,788.4    2,072.4    8,as7.8        54         7
F. ASSISTANCE TEcsIQUE
1. ASSISTANCE TBe IQUE               487.1    8a210.8     8 70S.4     a0u.S    2 o.n      9 au4.2        87          4
2. FDMTION FOFIfA                    786.9   2,27S.6   0aOS2.S        479.1    1.440.2   1:919.3         75          a
Sub-Total Aaaiatane Technique         1.244.0   8,493.      0,m77.9      787.8    8,477.2    4,264.5        82         7
0. INVESTISSEMENT D'ESSA
- --- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
1. CENlIE CIVIL SECT. BIHOETRIE     83.2        82.8       70.7       24.2       20.S       44.8        48          O
2. EQUIPB<T tESsA)                  188.0      282.0       470.0     110.0      178.5      297.8        60          1
3. MOBULER (ESSA)                     5.6          -         8-                              8.s         -          O
4. A.T. (ESSA)                       8.S      492.1       547.0      3S.2      811.8      848.7        90          1
Sub-Total INVESTISSE4N# D'ESSA           287.4     8OS.7      1,094.1     181.9      510.0     69.8          74         1
Total INVESTNT COST                   19,10.0   20,932.2    40     2   12,411.4   i.242.5   2s.,es.9         S2        45
Il. RECURRET COSTS
A. O4ARCE DE STRUCTE (FOFIFA)
1. fRASS DE PERSONEL              11.0!2.6         -    11,052.6    6.995.8         -    e,ees.s          -         12
2. TRAVAUX SERV. EXT.              6.66S.4    2,80.6      9.2O2.0    4.218.8    1.80.0    e,026.8        30         il
3. FONCT. DIVERS                     392.0      163.0       560.0     248.1      106.3      as4.4        a0          1
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ - - - -   --_------                    -      - --     - -
Sub-Totnl OMCE DE STRUICTME (FOFIFA)    18.110.0   8,024.6    21,134.6   11,4S2.0    1,914.3   18,876.8      14        2a
3. CHARCE DE PFROR4WE (FOFIFA)        28.212.8    4.436.4    27,e49.2   14.691.6    2.807.8   17,499.5      le         31
C. OAAROE DE STRUCIURE (ESSA)
1. TRAV. SER. EXT.                    sa2.5      188.9      546.4      242.1      103.7     848.8         s0          1
2. FONCTIO?«itB«                      2S2.0       54.0      806.0      189.5       a4.2      198.7        18         0
Sub-Total CHARCE DE STRUCltRE (ESSA)     sa4.s     n7.9        852.4      401.8      17.0      sse.s         2e         1
Total REC IRr COSTS                   41,957.2    7,s7s.9    49.636.1   2s.8ss.2    4,060.1   al,415.8       1S        SS
Total SASELINE COSTS                     61,567.2  2S.602.1   90.169.8  38,986.e   18,102.6   57,069.2         a2        100
Pl.4aical Contingenciaa                2as39.8    2 090.4    4 429.8    1 480.7    1,82s.0    2.8so.7        47         a
Pr,ee Conitngan.ceae                  11,984.9    80:01.4    16,98s.8   7,562.7    8,197.1   10.750.8        30        19
- - - - - - - - - _ _ - - - - ~~~~-------                 - -- -  - -- -
Total PRDJECT COSTS                      75.841.6   as,74a.8   111,805.4   48.001.0   22.S22.7   70,S23.7      82        124
------------------- -------------------   ---                             aa~a                           
Note Numbera n R«: are expreaed in co.ataat ara, mdj utad f  for.in infl*tion
IJ Incl us$i of USII2.6 *illion for identifiable taxes nd dutise



- 33 -
4.04         Price contingencies have been applied at the folloving rates:
z
1989        6.7
1990        2.0
1991        3.7
1992        3.7
1993        3.7
1994        3.7
1995        3.7
1996        4.4
4.05         Taxes and duties have been calculated on all costs at prevailing
rates.  They amount to $12.6 million or 18Z of total project costs.  In
practice, FOFIFA vill normally have to pay taxes and duties on items purchased
oy itself, whatever the source of financing, but vill not normally have to pay
taxes and duties on aid-in-kind (e.g. vehicles financed on grants and put at
its disposal). During negotiations, Government agreed to reimburse FOFIFA for
expenses incurred for taxes and duties.
4.06         Costa have been analyzed under three headings:  overhead,
program costs and investments, as the financing plan has been built up under
these three headings.
B.  FINANCING
4.07         In determining the financing structure and allocations from
different funding sources for the NAKP, the achievement of three objectives
has been sought: a more staàble allocation of Goverument budget funds over
time; more transparency and increased accountability in total research
funding; and better coordination between the different financiers (Government,
FOFIFA, bilateral donors and IDA) during implementation.
4.08         The basic funding allocation that has been agr6ad upon is that
(a) overhead costs - including all staff salaries, operating costs of
headquarters and central departmAents and two-thirds of fixed costs of research
stations - vill be finsnced under the Government recurrent budget. Up to one
third of the fixed costs of the research stations vill be financed by IDA; (b)
investment costs (station rehabili'ation, housing, and equipment) vill be
financed by donors, including IDA, for 90Z, and by Government for 10Z on its
investment budget; and (c) research program costs (mostly those operating
costs underpinuing specific research programs) vill be split between
Government, FOFIFA, the bilateral donors and IDA whereby 1) the Government's
contribution vould come from counterpart funds, currently earmarked by donors,
which each year would at least be equal to the budgeted Government
contribution in 1989 from these sources; 2) FOFIFA's contribution vould be
equal to its revenue from produce sales, levies on export crops and contracts
vith local users; 3) bilateral donors' contribution to research programs which
they are interested in financing; and 4) IDA would pay for the unfinanced
portion of research program costs. The latter is necessary due to uncertainty
in the size of bilateral donor financing for which it is virtually impossible



- 34 -
to obtain commitments more than 2 to 3 years ahead. Government would transfer
the IDA funds to FOFIFA as a grant, because funding of agricultural research
is considered a legitimate Government service to the sector.
4.09         More transparency and accountability in research funding would
be achieved by establishing a Steering Committee for Agricultural Research
Funding. Both Government and donors see strong advantages in the creation of
such a Committee as it would mobilize ana coordinate donor interventions; and
unify management of research program resources, making their use more
efficient and accountable. Initially, research program finance vould be
channeled through the Committee, but it is intended to extend its coverage to
overhead and investment costs once FOFIFA's accounting system and procedures
have sufficiently improved. Government woild establish the Cormittee as a
condition of Credit effectiveness. Tne Committee vould comprise duly
authorized donor representatives and three members of the international
scientific community (with qualifications acceptable to IDA). The chairman of
the Committee would be nominated by the Minister of Research. Prior to
seeking adoption by its Board of Directors, FOFIFA would present annually its
work programs, consolidated budgets and financing plan (including all sources
of finance) to the Committee for approval and then tu IDA. The operating
procedures for the Steering Committee would require IDA approval, prior to
their adoption. During negotiations, Government agreed that these would
include: (i) the required mandate of the Committee members with respect to the
pover of decision making and the commitment of funds, (ii) the monitoring of
annual work program execution, and (iii) the monitoring of the execution of
the National Agricultural Research Master Plan and the pluri-annual planning
of its financing. The financing plan presented below includes tentative donor
commitments indicated during appraisal and an extrapolation of historic
commitments on the assumption that their value will remain constant in real
terms.
4.10         Finally, better coordination between financiers during
implementation would be achieved not only through the Steering Committee (para
4.09) but also through an annual progrtmming and budgetting exercise (para
4.23). The latter would form the basis for allocation of IDA funds for
research programs each year. In addition, a mid-term review would be
scheduled in 1993 to coincide with the 1994 budget review process, and if by
that time donor commitments andior the flow of donor funds vary from
expectations, corrective decisions on shortening the project period or
cancelling surplus IDA funds, if necessary, will then be taken.
4.11         On these bases, the Project Financing Plan is as follows:



- 35 -
Table 4.2
Project Financing Plan
-----              FMG billions ------------------------
-- Other Donors --
Total    Government  FOFIFA  Committed Anticipated  IDA
Overhead         21.49       14.31      -         -         -         7.18
Reserch Programs  29.25       9.85     8.93    4.26         5.37      0.84
Investments      40.87        4.09      -       1.38        5.50     29.90
Taxes            19.97       19.97      -         -         -          -
---------------------------------------------------------------
111.58      48.22      8.93    5.64       10.87      37.92
--------------------------------------------------------------
- ---------- ---------$  million   ---------------------------
Overhead         13.60        9.,6      -         -           -       4.54
Research Programs 18.51       6.24     5.65      2.69        3.40     0.53
Investments      25.87        2.59      -        0.87        3.48    18.93
Taxes            12.64       12.64      -         -           -        -
---------------------------------------------------------------
70.62      30.53      5.65     3.56        6.88    24.00
--------------------------------------------------------------
C. Government Budget Impact
4.12       The impact of research finatLcing on the Government budget is shown
in Table 4.3. The increase in the annual Government contribution to
agricultural research in constant terms is about 402, but represents only
about 0.62 of total public expenditures, up from approximately 0.52 in 1989.
Even whith this modest increase, Government spending on agricultural research
would still be below the average francophone African countries (US$1.42
million versus US$5.27 million) 6/ and also below the range recommended for
agricultural based LDCs.
61      'Organizational, Financial and Human Resource Issues Facing West
African Agricultural Research Systemsh, Working Paper No.9, ISNAR,
The Bague, May 1988



- 36 -
Table %..3
Government Budget Impact
-      ------- FMG billions--li--------------
Source                Contribution            --Contribution 1990-1996--
1989                Annual Average    Total
Recurrent Budget             0.86                     1.67         11.71
Investnent Budget            1.39                     1.50         10.50
(of whichs Counterpart      (1.06)                   (1.00)        (7.00)
Funds)
Total Government
Contribution              2.25                     3.17         22.21
Investment Budget            n.a                      2.85         19.97
(for reimbursement of
FOFIFA taxes)
1/  in 1989 terms, deflated for inflation contingency.
Actual amounts to be budgeted higher.
4.13        At negotiations it vas agreed that Government and IDA financing of
recurrent overhead costs (including all permanent staff salaries) and non-
recurrent 7/ research program operating costs vould be guided by the
following principles:
o     for recurrent overhead costs (station operating costs):
Government's contribution vould never be lover in constant terms
than the amount provided in the 1989 Recurrent Budget and vould
increase according to the folloving schedule:
Gover_nent                     IDA
1990         67Z minimum                 33Z maximum
1991         75Z minimum                 25Z maximum
1992         802 minimum                 202 maximum
1993         85Z minimum                 15Z maximum
1994         90Z minimum                 lOZ maximum
1995         952 minimum                  5Z maximum
1996        100Z minimum                  OZ
o     for non-recurrent research program operating costs:  Government's
contribution vould never be lover in constant terns than the
amount provided in 1989 from counterpart funds and export crop
stabilization funds. The IDA contribution vould finance the
shortfall after application of FOFIFA's revenue and financing
available from other donors tovards research program financing.
7/   These costs are strictly limited to the running time of the research
programs, which may vary from one to five years, and do not include
salaries of permanent staff.



- 37 -
At negotiations, assurances vere obtained that Government vill honor its
commitment to finance the Project on the above basis each year.  Assurances
vere also obtained that Government vill, upon dissolution of the stabilization
funds for export crops, present proposals for the substitution of funding for
export crop research. Evidence of effective financing from all those sources
to be obtained by December 31 of each year vill be an annual condition for
disbursement on categories II through V (Table 4.5).
D. Procurement
4.14        Procurement procedures are summarized in Table 4.4 for categories
of expenditures likely to be financed by IDA. Figures are, however,
indicative as the objects of IDA financing vill be set each year in the light
of the annual work program and other available funding (para 4.10).
4.15        All new civil vorks and major reconstruction contracts to be
financed by IDA (US$4.4 million) vould be procured under ICB, advertised
locally vith notification to local representatives of Bank member countries.
Procurement of such contracts vill be divided into lots to be proposed by the
executing architects and alloving bidding for one, several or all of the lots
(slice and package). IDA vould review: ti) the bidding documents and bid
avard procedures; and (ii) the bid evaluation and proposed contracts prior to
contract avard, for all civil works estimated to cost over US$250,000. All
minor rehabilation lots (US$l.9 million), much of which is delayed
maintenance, vill generally be less than US$50,000, for which either LCB
procedures vould be followed or bidding vould be limited to three local
contractors in the immediate vicinity of the remote research station3.
4.16        For equipment, computers and vehicles, FOFIFA will retain
specialist consultants to define technical specifications for bid documents,
and, for lots over US$100.000, will then go to international competitive
bidding (US$4.0 million). IDA vould review bidding documents, bid avard
proposals and draft contracts prior to contract avard. For items where
standardization of equipment type vould be cost-effective (tractors, computer
equipment), FOFIFA will seek to place a single contract for each type of
equipment for phased delivery over the life of NARP. In practice, equipment
deliveries vill be concentrated in 1990-2, hence only a three-year delivery
period. A price review formula for deliveries beyond a minimum fixed-price
period of, say, two years, together vith a guarantee of non-obsolescence and
availability of spare parts and adequate repair facilities, vill be part of
the tender documents and vill be vritten into the contract.
4.17        Special equipment, including scientific equipment, (valued at US$
1.0 million in total), estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per procurement
package, vill be procured by international or local shopping, requiring at
least three quotations, except in the case of sole suppliers, where direct
procurement vill be permitted. IDA review of procurement procedures for
shopping (US$1.0 million) prior to contract avard will be required for
purchases exceeding US$100,000 and for each case of a sole supplier.
4.18        Civil vork contracts under US$250,000, and equipment and vehicle
purchases under US$100.000 vill follow FOFIFA's internal procurement rules
(LCB), the procedures for which are currently being redrafted to include:



- 38 -
public bld opening, clarity in bid-evaluation criteria, and contraet avard to
the lowest evaluated bidder. Any foreign bidders who vish to participate in
such procurement vill not be precluded from participation. The new
procedures, to be presented no later than March 31, 1990, vould require IDA
review and approval prior to adoption by FOFIFA's Board of Dlrectors.
4.19        Recruitment of technical assistance, consultants, auditors and
executive architecte to be financed by IDA vill follow IDA guidelines. The
selection of executive architecte vill be based on quality through a public
architectural design competition, and the firm's capacity vith respect to the
volume of work to be undertaken.
4.20        Annual work programe vill detail proposed procurements and
procurement methode each year, for IDA approval. Estimated amounts for the
procurement procedures described in the preceding paragraphe are presented in
Table 4.4.  Bank prior review le estimated to cover about 70% of civil vorks
and equipment procurement.
Table 4.4
Procurement Procedures
------------ $ millins ----------___
ICB      LCB    ILS    Other    NIA  Total
Civil Works                      4.4      1.9     -      5.3      -     11.6
(4.0)    (1.7)                          (5.7)
Vehicles and Equipment           4.0      1.0    1.0    9.1       -     15.1
(4.0)    (1.0)  (1.0)  (1.0)            (7.0)
Technical Assistance,
Consultancy and Training          -        -     -       6.2      -      6.2
(6.2)           (6.2)
Program Operating Coste           -       1.0    -       2.0     34.7   37.7
(1.0)         (2.0)    (2.1)  (5.1)
TOTAL                          ---------------------------------------------
8.4      3.9    1.0    22.1    34.7   70.6
(8.0)    (3.7)  (1.0)   (8.7)   (2.1) (24.0)
*/ ILS = international or local shopping
E. Disbursement
4.21        A schedule of diabursements le at Annex 5.  The proceeds of the
IDA Credit vill be distributed to categories on the basis of the approved
annual vork programs (para 4.23). Hence, the allocation by disbursement
categories (Table 4.5) is indicative only. All categories vill finance 100%
of expenditures presented, excluding duties and taxes, except for civil works
where 90% of expenditures vill be financed.  Operating coste are the items IDA
vill accept to finance in the context of the review of the annual vork program



- 39 -
of FOFIFA (Category V) and supplies and third party services of ESSA relai:ed
to biometry training (Category IX).
Table 4.5
Disbursement CateRories
------- $ millions ------
Expected 'DA    Category          SDR
Cateaorr            Z  Financing        Allocation   _guivalent
FOFIFA:
I. Civil Works               90    5.60              5.00        3.87
II. Vehicles & Equipment    100    7.00               6.00        4.65
III. Consultants' Services   100    2.70               2.35        1.82
IV. Training (FOFIFA)        100    2.30              2.00        1.55
V. Operating Costs          100    5.10              4.50        3.48
ESSA*
V7. Civil Works               90    0.05              0.05        0.04
VII. Equipmement              100    0.32              0.28        0.22
VIII. Consultants' Services   100    0.38               0.34        0.26
IX. Operating Costs for
Biometry Training     100    0.46              0.40         0.31
X. Refunding of PPF          -     -                 0.75        0.58
XI. Unallocated               -     -                 2.40        1.82
24.00            24.00       18.60
4.22        To reduce the number of disbursement claims and to reduce the
drain on FOFIFA's slim working capital, one Special Account and two Imprest
Accouants (one for FOFIFA and one for ESSA) will be opened. The Special
Account will be in US dollars.  IDA vill advance USS400,000 into the Special
Accouant, based on three months average estimated expenditures on eligible
items. The Imprest Accounts, to be replenished through the Special Account,
will be in local currency and represent three months of committed
expenditures. The amounts to be advanced into the Imprest Accounts, to be
held in local banks under respectively FOFIFA and ESSA control, will not
exceed the equivalent of US$280,000 for FOFIFA and US$10,000 for ESSA. All
disbursements will be fully documented and expenditures on single items under
US$50,000 and all operating and training coats vill be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
F. Budpeting and Reporting Procedures
4.23        POFIFA's budget system is at present adequate and will be improved
and computerized vith NARP assistance (para 3.28). Each year, FOFIFA will
present to IDA and the members of the Steering Committee (para 4.09) budgets
and annual vork programs, broken down into separate chapters for (i) overhead,
(ii) investment, and (iii) programs; and analyzed by source of finance. The
budgets and annual work programs will be circulated for comment and approval
to the members of the Steering Committee and IDA not later than November 1 of
each year. The members of the Steering Committee would be required to submit
written comments before November 30. The Comuittee vould meet annually on
December 1. Thereafter, FOPIFA vould include the Committee's comments in its



- 40 -
program and budget presentation to the Board of Directors, prior to its annual
meeting on December 15. Before December 31, FOFIFA vould distribute the
approved program and budget to all the members of the Steering Committee and
IDA. IDA approval of the budgets and vork programs vill be an annual
condition of disbursement on categories II through V.
4.24        Budget reports showing commitments and payments for each budget
item will be presented quarterly to IDA and other participants in the Fund.
G. Accounting and Audit
4.25        FOFIFA's accounting and financial reporting systems are not yet
adequate, despite technical assistance financed under Cr. 1709-MAG (para
2.13). Accounts have not been produced on time. The latest audit report (on
the 1987 accounts) does not certify the correctness of the financial
statements due largely to problems of verifying balance sheet items and to
weaknesses of internal control. At appraisal an exercise vas agreed to
reinforce financial management, revise accounting procedures and internal
controls, and bring accounts up to date (paras 3.28 and 3.29). This exercise,
which .s already underway with financing under Cr. 1709-MAG, is designed to
correct the situation by the end of 1989. As a condition of Credit effective-
ness, IDA requires the auditor to certify that the revised systems vork and
that they incorporate adequate internal controls; that physical and third
party verification of balance sheet items has been carried out at balance
sheet date; and that FOFIFA's accounting policies are acceptable to the
auditors.
4.26        FOFIFA vill prepare year-end financial statements, incorporating
all resources put at FOFIFA's disposal, and including statements of expendi-
ture by program and by donor. These statements vill be audited and presented
to IDA vithin six months of the year-end, together vith a copy of the long
form audit report and management letter. The auditor vill also certify
statements of expenditure and use of the Special Accounts. Terms of reference
for the audit and the form of audit certificate are set out in the
Implementation Volume (annexes to Vorking Paper No. 9).
4.27        FOFIFA's present audit firm was recruited according to IDA
guidelines under the Second Agricultural Institutions Development Project
(Credit 1709-NAG) and is competent, provided that it can upgrade its
capability in computerized systems and accept an enlarged and more
collaborative scope of vork. Failing negotiation of these conditions, FOFIFA
vill go to tender for another firm.
4.28        Exceptionally, and in order to ensure the highest standards of
audit, the costs of audit during the Project period vill be financed from the
Credit.
4.29        FOFIFA intends to create an Internal Audit Unit.  Assurances were
obtained ai- negotiation that draft terms of reference, staffing proposal and
timetable for this Unit vill be presented to IDA for comment by June 1, 1990.



- 41 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01        FOFIFA's existing organizational structure vould be modified by
separating the research and station management functions, through the creation
of a Research Support Services Directorate, which would take over the station
management and development function from the existing research departments.
The new directorate would be headed by a director, nominated by FOFIFA's
Board. FOFIFA's new organizational structure, as presented in Chart 1, would
thus consist of three directorates: research, research support services, and
administration and accounting. Three staff units would be under the direct
responsibility of tha Director General: personnel manage.aent and human
resources development, information resource managemert, and internal auditing
and budget control. The five research department heads would report directly
to the Scientific Director, who would be assisted by two staff units: the
biometry and data analysis unit, and the research programming, monitoring and
evaluation unit. All center and station managers and the head of the central
service laboratories would report directly to the Research Support Services
Director, who would also have two staff units under his responsibility:
logistical services, and technical support services 'station development and
maintenance). The foilol4ng services would report directly to the Administra-
tion and Finance Directort financial accounting, budget and cost accounting,
pay-roll, and treasury. Key staff, consisting of the three directors and the
heads of the personnel management, biometry, technical support and general
accounting units, would have terms of reference, qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. The head of the biometry unit would be internationally
recruited.
B.  Research Programming, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.02        Because multidisciplinary research needs careful programming and
coordination, one scientist in each national or regional research team would
be appointed as program coordinator (team leader). Bis or her task would be
to prepare and present, in collaboration with his colleagues, the annual
research program, including research protocols and detailed budgets, and the
annual report. In addition he or she would be responsible for daily coordina-
tion of research and budget control. The program coordinators would be
directly responsible to their respective department heads. Program coor-
dinators should not be perceived as another layer in the hierarchy; they are
in the first place research workers. Their coordinating role is most apparent
in the preparation of the annual research programs and reports. Because of the
limited involvement of some of the disciplines in certain programs, a research
vorker may work on more than one program at a time. Program coordinators,
however, should in general work full-time in the program. Research programs
and budgets are annually reviewed by FOFIFA's Scientific Committee, consisting
of the Scientific Director and the research department heads, assisted by the
heads of the biometry and research programming staff units.
5.03        To fulfill the functions described in para. 3.32, the biometry
unit vould ultimately consist of:  the head of the unit; four or five statis-



- 42 -
tical advisors, speciallzed in dlifferent fields of research, roughly coinc'd-
ing with the activities of the research departments; two or three systems
engineers (statistical programners), responsible for processing of research
results; and one systems engineer, responsible for the processing of research
protocols, programs, budgets, and the results of research monitoring and
evaluation.  The statistical advisors would be biometricians with pract.cal
experience in one or more research domains (plant production, animal
production, etc.), each with its specific requirements in terms of research
methodology and statistical analysis. They could be scientists with a
practical experience in biometrical methods.
5.04        The annual research programming exercise starts in August of each
year with the presentation of the results of the previous growing season and a
first rough draft of next year's program. The whole process, including the
drafting of research protocols, detailed budgeting and program coordinating
meetings, lasts through October, when the Scientific Committee meets to give
its final approval. The research programming cycle follows directives
prepared by the research programming, monitoring and evaluation unit, which
also monitors its progress and compiles the final outcome. As described in
para. 3.34, the programming unit vould also prepare and establish a monitoring
and evaluation system. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that by June
30, 1990 FOFIFA would prepare for IDA review and comment, a detailed work plan
for monitoring and evaluation and that the system would be operational by
September 1, 1990.
5.05        The change in FOFIFA's management structure will require a change
in its budgeting system. whereby a certain number of budget lines hitherto
included in the research budgets will shift to the station and center budgets.
The new system would be introduced by January 1, 1990, after the future
director of research support services and at least two station or center
managers will have completed a three months custom-designed training course in
station management at CIMMYT in Mexico.
C. Research Program Review.
5.06        Reseerch programs are reviewed ainually by FOFIFA's Scientific
Committee (para. 5.03), and by the Agricultural Research Funding Steering
Committee in conjunction with the work program and budget approval process
(para. 4.23). Most programs are designed for periods of one to three years and
often more, as in the case of perennial crops, forestry and soil conservation.
Program duration is frequently linked to external funding availability.  Under
the NARP, FOFIFA would arrange for external program reviews by scientists of
international repute before the end of each program cycle, to decide on its
continuation or reorientation. For programs running five years or more,
midterm reviews would also be scheduled. At the first meeting of the Steering
Committee, FOFIFA would present a program review proposal for the period 1990
- 1995, for review, comment and adoption. Funds are included for such reviews
under the rubric "visiting scientists'. These scientists would be specialists
in their field, and they would be recruited with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Steering Commitcee members and
TDA.  They would review past research results, their adequacy for farmer
adoption, advise on research orientation and review program proposals.



- 43 -
D. Research - Extens.on Liaison
5.07        At the top, there &re established links between research and
extension: every ,ear research programs are discussed with staff from the
user ministries, the same ministries are represented on FOFIFA's Board, and
FOFIFA organizes regularly visits to research sites for user ministry staff.
Since the establishment of the Farming Systems Research Department in 1984.
much closer links have gradually evolved, in particular in the Lac Alaotra
Region, where a regional researchlextension committee vas successfully
initiated, and through the initial diagnostic surveys (para. 3.25), often
carried out in collaboration with and at the request of the extension
services. To bring research even closer to the farmer and to avoid that
scientists in other departments view the FSR Department as the farmer's
privileged interlocutor, measures would be taken under the Project to ensure
that *station scientists' would undertake their own on-farm research in
collaboration vith local extension agents, as described in para. 3.35. This
vill, however, be a slow process, requiring a change in attitude of the
scientists, adaptations in research methodologies vith respect to test design
and data analysis, and training of research staff. Funds have been included
under the project for a series of in-country training courses on on-farm
research, designed and given by Ovisiting scientistsa. The establishment of
regional research/extension committees would gradually be extended to each of
Madagascar's major natural zones. These committees would consist of user
ministiies' and development agencies' staff and scientists living and working
in the region. The committees vould not only serve to exchange information,
but scientists would have to defend their research proposals for on-and off-
station research, prior to submission of the proposals to FOFIFA's Scientific
Committee (para 5.03).
E. Research Support Services and Station Management
5.08        As long as each of FOFIFA's research stations was exclusively
conducting research for one research department there vas a certain logic in
having the stations managed by the research department heads. With the
integration of agriculture, livestock, agro-forestry and soil conservation
research, the stations are nov increasingly serving more than one research
department. This bas led to conflicts between scientists and station staff.
The new organization, that separates research management from station
management, should go along way in avoiding such conflicts, provided the daily
vork on a station is vell programmed in advance and coordinated. The managers
of the eight regional centers would play a key role in daily vork programming
and coordination for the research facilities under their responsibility. They
should be first class facilitators and be responsible for solving remaining
conflicts between research and station staff. The most important function of
a research station manager is to provide the best possible physical support
services to realize the full production potential of the highly qualified
scientists vorking on the station. This function becomes even more important
for coordinated multidisciplinary research that is highlv field oriented.
Research station management exists primarily to serve the needs of the



- 44 -
research staff. Its responsibilities include: maintenance of buildings and
grounds; vehicle, tractor and equipment maintenance and repair; operation of
the station's vehicle and tractor pool; soil preparation; cultural care;
assistance in planting and harvesting experimental plots; the care of animals;
seed and feed production and other service duties described by proper
authority. Each station or center hab its own budget, distinct from the
research program budgets. The station or center manager has no authority over
progrzm budget allocations and expenditures.  Details of a station manager
required qualifications and responsibilities are in the Implementation Volume.
5.09        FOFIFA has decided ta regroup in one location its central
laboratories in AntanLanarivo, that have a service function (in general,
routine analyses) towards the research departments. In the same manner as for
the stations and centers, the central laboratories would fall under the
responsibility of the director of research support services. Certain
laboratory facilities with a research function vould remain under the
responsibility of the research department heads. The distinction between the
research and service functions not being very clear at appraisal, it vas
agreed that the terms of reference for the laboratory requirement study (para.
3.43) would include an analysis of these two functions. FOFIFA has agreed to
undertake the study prior to the recruitment of an architectural firm for the
rehabilitation of its facilities in Antananarivo.
5.10        The Technical Support Service, to be created as part of the
research support services, vould have the same direct responsibilities as the
center or station managers with respect to the maintenance of buildings,
grounds, vehicles and equipment of the services and facilities located in
Antananarivo. In addition, they would have responsibility for *station
development', i.e. supervising the architects and builders contracted by
FOFIFA for the execution of the civil works component. They would also have
both an advisory and supervisory function vith respect to the purchase,
maintenance and repair of buildings and equipment (specifications) by the
centers, stations and laboratories. The actual procurement and delivery
function vould remain vith the Logistical Support Service, with the exception
of the procurement for civil vorks and services. The head of the Technical
Support Service is expected to be recruited by July 1, 1989, with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
F. Accounting, Finance and Administration (Organization)
5.11        In order to improve financial management accounting, FOFIFA is
reorganizing its Finance Department. The role of external control vill be
reduced to a minimum and substantial delegation of finaucial responsibility
within the structure vill take place. As a precondition to these changes,
accountability vill be achieved through improvements ta budgeting and
financial accounting and management procedures, ,ith an emphasis on internai
control and timely, accurate reporting. The actions are described in detail
in Chapter III (paras. 3.28 to 3.29). They vill be completed by enhanced
internal and external audit (paras. 4.25 to 4.29).
5.12        In order to install and operate these systems FOFIFA vill revise
its internal organization. The key financial management function of Finance



- 45 -
Director vill be filled (by August 1, 1989) by a locally recruited technical
assistant for about two years until a suitable permanent candidate is
recruited. The candidate vill be subject to IDA approval and assurances on
this vere obtained at negotiations. Once the permanent candidate is
recruited, the technical assistant vill remain for 12-18 months in an advisory
and training capacity. This contract vill be terminated only after
consultation vith IDA.
5.13        A new Financial Accounting Service vill be created, taking over
the functions at present inadequately carried out by the Ministry GE Finance
agent: general ledger, payroll, receivables and payables, inventory
accounting. The Ministry of Finance agent vill continue to handle the
treasury function, as this is mandatory under Malagasy law for an institution
vith FOFIFA's legal status. However, improved systems vill be designed, and
the agent and his staff vill participate in training sessions.
5.14        The existing Personnel Service vill continue its role in payroll
management and administration. Its role of career management and human
resources development vill be transferred to the newly created Perc.onnel
Management and Human Resources Development Unit, under the direct
responsibility of the Director General. The existing Budget and Cost Account-
ing Service vill continue its present role of coordinating the budget presen-
tation process and budget control.  Once the reorganization of FOFIFA (para.
5.01) has been completed and the accounting system has been computerized, its
cost accounting function vill be enhanced through additional in-country
training (in conjunction vith the training of station and center managers,
para. 5.05) and through the recruitment of a few additional qualified staff.
The existing logistical support function vill be transferred to the Research
Support Services and Station Management Directorate (para. 5.10).
G. Human Resources Development Master Plan, Training and Recruitment
5.15        The methodology for the preparation of the Human Resources
Development Master Plan is described in para. 3.37. The Personnel Management
and Human Resources Development Unit vould have overall responsibility for the
preparation of the Plan. Its head vould be recruited by July 1, 1989, and
have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. The Plan would be
prepared in modules in the folloving order: first, for the administration and
accounting services, expected to be ready by December 31, 1989; second, for
the research support services, including all station and center staff, tO be
prepared after the return of the future director and two center or station
managers from training (para. 5.05) in September 1989, and expected to be
ready by March 31, 1990; and third, for the research departments and other
services not yet included, expected to be ready by August 31, 1990. Upon
completion of each module, recruitment criteria vould be established for each
category of staff. Prior to adoption of such criteria by FOFIFA's Board of
Directors, they would be presented to the members of the Steering Committee
and IDA for review and comments. A similar process for review and adoption
vould apply to the overall Master Plan, once completed (June 1, 1990).
5.16        The Personnel Management and Human Resources Development Unit
vould be responsible for: the recruitment process, personnel files,



- 46 -
supervision of the annual staff evaluation process, individual career path
development and counseling, and training (both in-house and outside). For the
development and execution of these tasks, including the Master Plan, the unit
vould have access to short ternm outside consulting services, for which funds
vould be provided under NARP.
H.  Administration of Surport to the Agricultural Faculty (ESSA)
5.17        The Biometry Section of ESSA to be created under the Project, vill
report to the Dean of the Faculty, and thus be independent of FOFIFA. During
it8 first years of existence, the section vill primarily serve the training
needs of existing and future FOFIFA staff as described in par&.3.41. For this
purpose. the Faculty vill enter into a formal agreement with FOFIFA,
describing in detail the training services to be delivered and the time
schedule. This agreement, expected to be signed before September 1, 1989,
vill be reviewed by IDA prior to its eignature, and vould constitute a
condition of disbursement for categories VI through IX (Table 4.5, para 4.21).
5.18        The part of the proposed Credit destined for ESSA vill be
administered by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be created under the
Education Sector Project (CRESED), presently under preparation. As to the PCs
for the Biometry Section, to ensure that both institutes vill have the same
equipment and to benefit from economies of scale, they vill be procured
together vith FOFIFA PCs but under two separate contracts. Similarly,
FOFIFA's executive architects vill design the building and supervise the
vorks, but the building contract vill be vith ESSA, administered by the CRESED
PCU.
I. Civil Vorke
5.19        Because of the scattered nature of the vorks and the difficult
communications, FOFIFA vould retain the services of four or five executive
architects. The architects vould be selected through a prequalification
process, whereby their conceptual capacity vould be one of the main criteria
for selection, together vith the firm's capacity vith respect to the volume of
vork to be undertaken.  This vould be done through an architectural design
competition for the rehabilitation and renovation of part of the animal
production research laboratory, for which immediate financing (GTZ) is
available.  The executive architecte vould be hired upon completion of the
negotiations under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The architects
vould be responsible for: the preparation of plans for
rehabilitationlrenovation, building construction and site development;
implementation schedules; the preparation of bidding and contract documents;
bid analysis and recommendation of contract avard; and the supervision of
construction. Priority vill be given to delayed maintenance for all
installations and particularly housing, as a measure to boost staff morale.
The emphasis in the architectural concept of the renovation of the centers and
stations vould be on: (i) the internal coherence of the facilities, which
ehould reflect multidisciplinary team vork and inter-departmental cooperation
and coordinationi and (ii) the opennese to the outside vorld, reflecting the



- 47 -
changing concepts of agricultural research for and with amall farmers. The
role and function of the Technical Support Service have been described in
para. 5.10.  Detailed terms of reference for the executive architecte and the
Technical Support Service are in the Execution Volume. FOFIFA would seek IDA
approval for the execution of civil works in three stagess (a) preliminary
design and cost estimates; (b) detailed design, architecte confidential cost
estimates and bidding documentsa and (c) bid evaluation and award for all
contracts estimated to exceed US$ 250,000 (para. 4.15).
J. Prolect Implementation Schedule
5.20        The phasing of the execution of the civil works component is
illustrated in Chart 2.  The whole process, from preliminary design sketches
through completion of the works, is estimated to take approximately four
years.  Because of the scattered nature of the vorks, and the limited design
capacity of individual architectural firms in Madagascar it is proposed to
recruit four or five different executive architecte each responsible for a
well defined part of the total program.  This vill result in five or more
separate construction contracts, which may attract in certain cases some
amaller or medium scale enterprises.  The proposed implementation schedule
requires substantial coordination by the Techxdcal Support Services, but has
the advantage of much greater flexibility in the execution.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Prolect Benefits
6.01        Project benefits are expected from:  (a) accelerated agricultural
productivity and growth, (b) higher returns to farmers and increased
employment, and (c) increased foreign exchange earnings. Most of these
benefits are indirect and obtained through limproved priority setting, improved
ressarch quality and greater research efficiency (earlier availability of
higier returne to investment at lese cost).
6.02        As in most other Bank Group-assisted agrieultural research
projecta, no attempt has been made to quantify the economic rate of return ex
ante, due to:
(Î)      inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of
research findings, auid the timing and extent of adoption of
research findings by farmers;
(il)      diificulties in separating potential benefits of research
and complementary investments, such as input supply,
extension and training; and
(iii)      the problem of assessing the value of negative research
results, which add to the pool of knowledge and frequently
benefit subsequent research efforts.



- 48 -
(iii)      the problem of assessing the value of negative research
results, which add to the pool of knowledge and frequently
benefit subsequent research efforts.
Considerable evidence from ex post analysis shows that investment in
agricultural research in both developed and developing countries bas generated
high economic rates of return, exceeding 40Z in most cases. 8/
B. Employment and Poverty Impact
6.03        The Project would have only a comparatively small direct
employment impact during the implementation period. Far more important vould
be its possible indirect long term impact on employment and income generation
in rural Madagascar. Through the eventual adoption of improved agricultural
production and farm management techniques, the Project would lead to increases
in smallholder productivity and farm output, thus generating additional
employment and income for farmers, their household members and agricultural
laborers, that constitute about 85Z of Madagascar's population. Through the
Project's emphasis on sustainable agriculture in a degrading environment, it
not only hopes to save the land for future generations, but also to counter-
balance the impoverishing effects of increasing rural population densities and
a degrading natural resource base.
C. Environmental Impact
6.04        Through its emphasis on soil conservation, agro-forestry, soil
fertility management, integrated pest control and farming systems research,
the Project aims at stabilizing and improving farming in a degrading environ-
ment.  Although most of the environmental degradation in Madagascar is man-
made, the situation has evolved to a point where the farmerls interest (in
severe cases a question of survival) and that of protecting the environment,
are now the same. The new focus of agricultural research is necessarily
limited: (i) to what farmers can do on their own fields, and (ii) to what
communities (villages, farmer associations, etc.) can do for their common
interest (watershed protection, etc.). The bigger questions of the protection
of Madagascar's unique biodi,ersity, finding solutions for land tenure
problems affecting the environment, pesticide usage (legislation and control)
and others, are beyond the scope of this Project, but they are the main focus
of the Environmental Protection Project, presently under preparation within
the framework of the Malagasy Environmental Action Plan.
D. Project Risks
8f Agricultural Research (Sector Policy Paper, World Bank, June, 1981)
Annex 3, pp. 64-65.



- 49 -
6.05        A risk that may delay the realization of Project benefits and
affect the credibility of agricultural research in Madagascar is the desired
change in attitudes of research staff needed to make research more demand-
driven. The Project emphasizes on-farm research and close collaboration with
extension staff and a number of measures have been included to help in
bringing about such a change in attitude:  training in on-farm research
methodology, mandatory coordination vith field extension staff for all on-farm
trials and training of extension staff by researchers. However, changes in
attitude take time, unlesa accelerated by motivation. A scientist is
motivated by research results. A scientist working in applied agricultural
research should find his motivation in seeing the results of his research
being applied by farmers.
6.06        Risks that are specifically addressed under the Project which may
nevertheless delay new technology generation includet (i) adequacy of
budgetary funding levels and mechanisms; (ii) effectiveness of the reorganized
FOFIFA organization and management; (iii) possible lack of qualified staff by
non-adherence to recruitment and human resource development criteria; (iv)
non-adherence to agreed priorities and balance in research programs; (v)
relevance and adoption of research findings; and (vi) insufficiencies in donor
coordination.
6.07        The major general risk is that the various problems may bog down
the reorientation of research and hence, delay possible results. However, the
Government is fully committed to the project and a general consensus exists
vith FOFIFA on the proposed research programs. Moreover, a number of measures
have been proposed in the project to ensure that the probability of any of the
specific risks becoming real is reduced to the minimum. Increases in
Government funding levels are realistic and IDA's financing is tied to the
actual availability of Government funds every year. Moreover, research
program funding does not depend on Government funding levels. To ensure the
effectiveness of FOFIFA's new organization and to improve the quality of
research the Project includes an important human resources development and
training component as well as financial incentives for research staff. The
major risk for non-adherence to agreed priorities and balance in research
programs are donors that have their own agenda regardless of Governments
stated policies and priorities. The proposed donor coordinating mechanism
through the Research Fund Steering Committee should minimize these problems.
Monitoring and evaluation of research, together with the research program
review system, and the increased emphasis on on-farm research and coordination
with extension staff, should go a long way in minimizing the risk of non-
relevance of research findings. However, the expected benefits should
outweigh the costs and from the national perspective, even one research
component that is a major success could finance or justify the total
agricultural research effort for years, and those that may fail are part of
the cost to be borne by those that succeed. Cost minimization can be achieved
through careful design of the research organization, staff development, ex
ante and ex post program monitoring. and adequate funding; and the Project is
designed to do all these.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.



- 50 -
7 01        At negotiations, assurances vere obtained from the Government on
the folloving principal pointss
Mi)    Government would call annually on all donors interested in
agricultural research in Madagascar (including those financing
agricultural research outside FOFIFA) to attend the meetings of
the Steering Committee for Agricultural Research Financing to
discuss and agree on FOFIFA's proposed research programs, annual
budgets and financing plans (para. 3.30).
(ii)    For each operational research program the research department
heads would nominate National Research Program Coordinators
(para.3.33).
(iii)    FOFIFA's internal procedures for research programming and
execution would stipulate: (a) detailed description of
coordination and approval procedures vith local extension staff
for all on-farm research and farm surveys in the annual research
programs and protocols; (b) the establishment of regional
research-extension committees composed of FOFIFA and user-agency
(extension) staff to discuss research results and objectives; and
<c) the obligation for research workers to set aside a
portion of their time (not exceeding together with outside
consultancies 20Z) for training of extension staff (para 3.35 and
5.07).
(iv)    FOFIFA vould prepare in three modules a Human Resources
Development Master Plan, according to the folloving time
schedule: (a) by December 31, 1989, for administration and
accounting services; (b) by April 1, 1990, for research support
services; and (c) by August 31, 1990, for the research departments
and remaining services not yet included. By June 1, 1990, and
prior to adoption of the modules, the overall plan and proposed
personnel policies by FOFIFA's Board of Directors, the plan would
be presented to the members of the Steering Committee for
Agricultural Research Financing and IDA for review and comments
(paras 3.38, 5.15 and 5.16).
(v)    By January 1, 1990, FOFIFA would present to IDA for approval: (a)
proposals with respect to housing, medical expenditures and
education benefits for children to compensate scientists for the
extra costs of living and working on outlying stations, and (b)
proposals for procedures governing the annual allocation of not
more than five cash prizes to individual scientists or teams of
scientists for outstanding scientific work (para 3.40).
(vi)    Not later than January 1, 1990, ESSA (Ecole supérieure des
sciences agronomiques) would recruit internationally a professor
in biometrics with terms of reference qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para. 3.41).
(vii)    By December 31, 1989, FOFIFA would complete with the assistance
from independent consultants the following studiest (a) an in-



- 51 -
depth study of the research and service functions of all FOFIFA's
laboratories, including a study of laboratory equipment
requirements; (b) prepare agricultural equipment profiles.
workshop equipment requirtments and equipment maintenance
schedules for each of FOFIFA's research stations; and by June 30,
1990, (c) an analysis of the orientation and priorities for
research on agricultural technology and prepare a detailed three-
year research program (paras 3.44, 3.46 and 5.09).
(viii)    Government vould create a Steering Committee for Agricultural
Research Financing, vith rules of operation acceptable to IDA, to
which it would invite all donors funding agricultural research in
Madagascar to participate and which vould be chaired by a
Goverrnment representative nominated by the Minister of Scientific
Research and Technology for Development. Three scientists of
international repute with qualifications acceptable to IDA would
be invited to participate in the Committee deliberations (para
4.09).
(ix)     Government vould organize in 1993, together with the Agricultural
Research Funding Steering Committee, a mid term review of the
National Agricultural Research Program. This review would coincide
with the 1994 program and budget review process (para. 4.10).
(x)      Upon dissolution of the export crop stabilization funds,
Government will present proposals for continued funding of export
crop research (para 4.13).
(xi)      By March 31, 1990, FOFIFA vill present its revised internal
procurement procedures to IDA for comments and approval (para.
4.18).
(xii)      Prior to submission to its Board of Directors, and no later than
November 1 of each year, FOFIFA vould submit its research
programs, work program, procurement and training schedule, and
budgets (broken down into separate chapters for overhead,
investment and research programs, and analyzed by sou.ce of
finance), to the Agricultural Research Funding Steering Committee
and IDA for comment and approval. FOFIFA would also submit for
comments and approval a proposed schedule and terms of reference
for exte:nal program reviews to the same recipients.  No later
than December 31 of each year, FOFIFA would submit to the Steering
Committee and IDA the annual work program and budget for the next
fiscal year as approved by its Board of Directors (paras 4.23 and
5.06).
(xiii)      a) FOFIFA's and ESSA's accounts, the Special Account and the two
imprest accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA: b) the report of the auditors would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the FOFIFA and
ESSA fiscal years; and (c) the report of the auditors would be of
such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request,
including - statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used
for their intended purpose, and a certification that all



- 52 -
expenditures claimed under SOE's during the year have been
properly incurred for the Project as designed (para. 4.26).
(xiv)      FOFIFA would present by June 1, 1990 draft terms of reference a
staffing proposal and timetable for the creation of an Ince-nal
Audit Unit for IDA review and comments (para. 4.29).
(xv)       The following key project staff would have qualifications a~nd
experience acceptable to IDA: (a) the directors of research,
research support services, and administration and finance; and (b)
the heade of the personnel management and human resources
development, biometry and data analysis, technical support
services, and general accounting units. (para. 5.01).
(xvi)      By June 30, 1990, FOFIFA vill prepare a detailed work plan for
monitoring and evaluation of research for review and comments by
the Agricultural Research Funding Steering Committee and IDA, in
such a manner that FOFIFA's research monitoring and evaluation
system would be fully operational by September 1, 1990 (para.
5.04).
(xvii)     FOFIFA vould recruit locally for a period of at least two years a
technical assistant with experience and qualifications acceptable
to IDA, as director of administration and finance (para. 5.12).
7.02        As conditions of Credit effectivene=s the following measures vould
have been fulfilleds
i)   The adoption of a new statutory framework for FOFIFA acceptable to
IDA and includingt a new organization structure, and a
redefinition of the responsibilities of the Government's
Commissioner and of the Ministry of Finance agent ('agent
comptable') (paras. 3.28, 5.01 and 5.13);
ii)   The effective reduction of FOFIFA lover level staff (below
category V) by about 110 (para. 3.37);
iii)   The signature of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and
ESSA, with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.41);
iv)   The establishment of a Steering Committee for Agricultural
Research Funding with operating procedures acceptable to IDA, the
nomination of the Steering Committee Chairman by the Minister of
Research, the recruitment of three scientists of international
repute, the invitation of all donors funding agricultural research
through FOFIFA to nominate duly authorized Committee members, and
the distrioution of Committee operating procedures (acceptable to
IDA) to all donors (para 4.09);
v)   The certification by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA,
regarding (a) the adequacy of FOFIFA's revised accounting and
internal control system ; (b) the physical and third party
verification of balance sheet items (receivables and payables),



- 53 -
and to value these items correctly as of December 31, 1989: sad
(c) the acceptability of FOFIFA's accounting policies (4.25)
7.03        Conditions of disbursement would be s
i)   That no withdrawals would be made from the IDA credit for civil
works until: (a) all operations and expenditures on research sites
to be closed have effectively halted, and (b) ail titles for
respective research sites remaining in the program or new sites
have been cleared (para. 3.42)
ii)   That no withdrawa'.s would be made from the IDA credit for
Categories Il through V until the Agricultural Research Funding
Steering Committee and IDA have approved, FOFIFA's annual
operating budget, research programs, financing plans, proposed
investments by procurement procedure, training schedule, research
program staffing and external program review schedule. A formal
assurance by the Government to make the necessary budget
allocations as indicated in the financing plan is an additional
condition of budget approval (para. 4.13, 4.23 and 5.06)
iii)    That no vithdrawals would be made from the IDA credit for ESSA,
until ESSA has entered into a formal agreement with FOFIFA
describing in detail the training services (including course
content) to be delivered to existing FOFIFA staff and the time
ochedule, acceptable to IDA (para 5.17)
7.04        With the ;adicated assurances and conditions the proposed Project
vould be suitable for a Credit on standard terms of SDR 18.6 million
equivalent to the Government of Madagascar.



-..  .... .-  n -    n. -  - . ...     ..                   -         n n          -
..... nn...     . .                 . ............ .. . . ......... ..    - n. nnnnnn n nnn    *-n
40 4 C4C    4 p       golela tCo0 te               ce0 go       °  l g I 
..n   n... ...... ... .... n.n... ....n..*. .. *..n  .. n.. n..              nnnnnnnnnf
^~~~ ~ nnnnn..n..                .. .. n...                              .. n. n.                    nnnnnnnnnl . n.n.
|    |  !|  e,4Ct40000,             00500         "0000           00,.        *0     I SI
5      ~     ..  .. n  .... n n .    ..    n. n.                                n n  n
ffi~~~~~~~~~ -                 teo-  -   ho-  - t * « e-   -   - s -   -     -- - - -                                  
W      u..  ..           nnn ....  ...n ..              .. n.      n n nn        n n .  ... 
Es    si    .. n.....          nnn ..nnn.. nnnn..nnf.. nn     ...n
S e I4Po .41 41   go0,401*1  e                 1    ci        10 1 l 1    
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         - - -- 
igZ
|~~~~~~~~~,                         .    .    .    .    O. .U ....«.
O                          ..e e
..                             ,                             4-
S6  |t||e     |
IL  'etli
ne-     !13 a 
1~~                                                   .~  O
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'6



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
National Agricultural Research ProRram
Indicative Plan of Training Reguirements
Research Staff
23   2 year scholarships for MSe Training of existing staff (in-
-    country)
27   2 year scholarshipo for MSc Training of future staff (ln-
country)
5    2 year scholarships for PhD Training (overseas)
20 3 months equivalent scholarships for specialization
training or attendarice of scientifle
* conferences/workshopslseminars, etc. (overseas)
6    3 week training courses in on-farm research methodology and
test design (in-country)
Station Staff
6    3 months training courses in station management (overseast
CIMMYT)
6    2 week training courses Ln station management for 20 staff
(in-country)
6 . 4 week equivalent training courses for trector drivers,
. .equipment operators, laboratory technicians and workshop
-  staff.



MADAGASCAR
National Agricultural Research Program
FOFIFA
Summary Balance Sheets 1983-7
------------------FMG millions ----------
1983      1984       1985        1986        1987   41
Fixed Assets                            610        642       834         886        851
Stocks                               62         54        128         198        196
Receivables                         415        337        546         713        506
Cash and Baak                       211        180        313          96        472
Current Assets                          698        571        987        1007      1174
rrent Liabilities                       607        726       997        1086        867
Net current assets/(liabilities)         91       (115)       (10)       (79)       307
701       487        824         807       1158
Reserves                                830        830        830        830       1287  51
Accumulated surplusl(deficit)          (186)      (422)     (263)       (528)      (559)
Capital subsidy   6J.                    59        80        259         505        449
701       487        824         807       1177
4/   Balance sheet does not balance due to unidentified error in the audited accounts
51   Increase in reserves due to capitalizatiôn of debt owed to Governaent
6/   Adjusted for depreciation of the corresponding asset



MADAGASCAR                     Table 2
National Agricultural Research Program
FOFIFA
*Summary Income and Expenditure Accounts 1983-9
-------------------- FMG millions ---------------------
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988     1989
Income                                                                       (Budget) (Budget)
Sales of produce              34        41        75        90        80      229       249
Operating subsidy            760       771       843       830      1058      9>9      1080
Contracts                    414       213       506       492       731      708       712
Other                          O        13        89        13        23        O         O
1213     1038      1513      1425      1892      1886     2041
Expenditure
Salaries                     849       905      1077      1175      1321     1341      1221
Consumables                  130       199       156       167      275       390       517
Services                      72       101       145       162       201      225       234
Other                                   37        67        81        54       74        42
(1078)   (1242)   (1443)   <1585)   (1851)   (2030)   (2014)
Depreciation                    (63)     (62)      (89)    (120)    (135)        n.a.     135
Profit/loss on disposals        35        30       179        16        63       n.a.       O
(28)     (32)       90      (104)      (72)      n.a.    (135)
Surplus/(Deficit)              107      f2361      159      <264) 1     31)      n.a.    (1081



StAtiom MTISPlUME  MTI3lI  A16.  IWEWE0  t#825                          i 2UA            i
4. M-Pètlom rAmum              bof~flS 8163#*aotuî             uma1  oo.  ?3            1    1.
Loa   F.rg Toua            Ll  FuaI    1..    Ic..    Coite
4. 11810£ tU                                 47416.1  t8.4.   5e6.2  324013.    911.5 4332.2          2a        6
a. com   uoANI SA
i. WIU  60111                             1ze.10.  1.07.0  4,500.0  0.063.    810.  2.053.7         38       S
2- PATIN rtISImmm                          253M.6  P8146.4  3M.6 -0  941.2.5   75.l4 2.127.4        Il        4
3. US4IAT    ETI&%M I                       010.13.    M7.0  1.401.    715.0   87.0   0863.1        80       à
1. CUlE IMUIMSAO                          3.045.6 l».4  l5.o.0    n.o3 1.2700.  3,706.4             32       6
2.      U4TiN  11MI.AIU                    1.7103.    W6 9 3.2       1.095.0   Wé1  1.432.1         24       1
htaîCtt .TE                                  675.4   2        1.44 0 47-6.17  3.532r  1,54.2   6.30    20      UO
s. emm mime
L. Clam  T9l4                             3.405.5  bI4.03    53o1.   2<37-.  1P.08  348n.8          32       6
2. PATI br unLM                            1.9337l   54 3X.40           M.1.   3.S  S5432.1         24       3
3. Su-SIATIN 80261                         8.00.5   163.4  1.866.      61.1   103.4   138.5         14       i
81611.1lm WII         im TIéE                6524w.7 3.41.4  0,06.1  415   8.54h2 5.674.2              2   10Il
t. ENtE TmIIIA <11
1. enfii 016161                            4.1110.0   3.14   4sM0    2.7    6.8  2.815.$            32       7
2. SATION 800                              1.3087.    3U0.   1.42.3  1U0.6   414. 0 3U   0.S 1      2        2
3. 01041tAo i   A 1111                     8.00I l3.5   IU-34  1,t166.   635.1   103.4   638.5      84       1
#6.2.  ENTE lur iAJIAII                      6o4.90 69.0  2.0183 .06.3  4,376.3 4.630.8 6.814.2        37      18 
8. tj IO tE DI TRI                          hS24-7I »h441-4O  hS".9    hl24.    14& S 1 153 65U.  192717  D   10
t. EliE  1UAS<115 .ttl
1. IIIIE 16M.8   15413.4   eh72.5  a3n2    076.8 2.089.5                                            32    à
2. £1A IT M M                              12.4.8 254. 3     42364.0  1,20.6   214. 110.14,         Io       2
3*-t.u  « N        Et   <1ISAN80>            4lUhtU  49 0.4   9.. 62.   3.142.1  39.4.5  3.S          38        1
W. 91(1  IXIIE W19                           8,447.  6.53.  1 «-    5.0412  5.346.3  4.222.9  0.5802   24      17
. lMISN (T AS$ISI        1(061168<
1. VOM ES                                    à6.0  t3..   1.0125    472.40. 1.010                   15       I
2.   151MU tWIIImE                          20s  4t«t.6 2*7.3*1,4  2.646.0    8.5 8m.se502 01.67.7 9.        3
l1.2.2 SIE6E IIU      51S1    17.12   4057J.0  5du.31.  6346.5 l2.047.5 37-  .2                        82      16
Iwto StCttUC    ettElREstWRlttlle    2m3.5 s  I024-   I4d                 513S4.  I#SS.  2#8087        43  -
S.      _      _       __EPD0M1
t.  t8I IIII                              8145.61 227-4 1616.3.           1 16,095M   -6.1 t093      7       Il
lu tDsPl
16t61al RAS E        _ 11(063                1.52.6        - 11.052.6  6.115.3        - 6.105.3         -      12                                                                             0
IgOl lt11     IS £038                         6.57.2 23.602.8  00,860.3 30.000. 21.1024S'.060.2          32     ItO 0
N.,lcClaeti.u.cî                             2.33.5 3.000.4  4.4201  8e.40.  1.123.0 2.803.7          47       5
Pris CeIita                                 81.03,  s5.0584  16063   7@S.551.  3.0.  0.l @750.        30      U0
10.8 01tT£ tCStS                              15.041. 38.7630 U11145.4 48.001.0 22.62.7 70.623.7         J2     124
* ~  ~     ~    ~                 _55    _s..n    SSas _555    555
k.  21. 8180 18.4_



l'1 lu         réside rétP      *u..et      v"bfl    m1i         nu          -        éi.        Ut:let                                      q   ueo
,*r        tn         **lie  *Bois    l'mot t>  o î  rêU*î   rat         .m        -                    W'r1t Otf '
Mtf       M            UhNM lbNOMM  l*Itm  flf-l llnl    .bfn    ftn    ,ntfa..f..
rm   ents  1wjl nTs  tn^l  rt«+l   rm   *nt    -        res       rteu  *'ISSmt'l                                     191
rote       gmt   _w    rut             .*uî       rm'i tre  *  tdotr                         o em      ru    l'lited-   uI.8
-'w'1      *|"q             *jrut  o.ufl   riu  6t  Sao                                     t 'lotr'    éte t t'WC                             s       IuW
411 <q     <Uti   ris  lt'tt't    Omeit           Cut#t  41911         *msu        *        **u9I    m1et l'me                                SM   NUIM tops
-          t'UI        t't.Y  -'U rWet            *'*tS                    - *'U                *                            uni 'a£alsVl urn Sm           sI#
o ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ *"@                    l   l*tt    -'0' t"               ê       *'"'         '  '           -              -X6   -<@                           ISR t 2b         l
._  ..                       .      .  _                   -              . .                            _    _umi                                      q
o>                 Olfl.;      Siaq~~~~wt  ow POIPI SiU i ftui'       V%C'Z   V oi*        61"141                         8 u'  1*611 tl10'g         Ilillib luOW  N MMl
t,?  <'t ~t'Ott        Vill       Vma                                       t'fLot    tlilt   c'ai         (vuisai UII2UU N »      10VOI41
°s  -       -        -'' -                  -          -               -           -                 *         -  -no 1 
<~~                            ~     ~ ~ _  ,  ,       ,                                                                       u,.- -                                 uUs nUu'
u0N 'Il
i~~~~~~ II    -   ,*'  *' t  (L'!t                                          V*II(o  -            rt'tr                Lf'I   I&'1 {titi                              <At £1~1NA
- *-         -    -  -  - -    - -IU'
I-X      11- 4  r-«        -*at       *ms   -              -      I             -         -                          (        1N   1 S    MMN  *le
I . . _~~*                                                             _                                                                      _I  ,l .t-__  
>                     .           .         .      .         .           -        ~     ~~-  - *                   -   -    -       *1                           <tUttl unu   '
f1~~~~~~~~ -                                               *         -                    *-                              _                      _ut  ._wî  _
,              ,       ,         ,                     *         *         *         * -«J *QnllG -                                               'I1m81gi1
*  rU   01*    tIC        *           liii    -*           t-         -         -U        -I     -t                   rnUoeID 'tJS lUI   1W141
*          -     I' g*'                ' -  1 '   *                    -           *'t*               .       *'                         CU t' MIAUSI i
Uwmms   1111IL 1,J
*     nt î*m   oit    tir        -           <t       -          -U          -        telS      lit    ti                       uzueit  ums  'I
ulmi ;wIs Iu
- t**t               so  'to             it,        '*      -                               sgt   -m          iLS                          uttu> m' nes   no"
-          étS       1'W    SOt        OitU       (ICI                 rn          -        îlot      îlot  *601t                   < S> 'ia    u         lm  ow I
*      +'t      <'t1i   L'IL     OU0         £1It0    -                      *          iY       L*tt   C'lii                       <litJAS> IOOill '
*' slt         (Li    6W1        rU'»1       I-*4SI    *IL S'lI -it i'«*                                Lifi                 <talAi> 11* lt  ItU î-S
I- tu           <;   o-lt        otit        t'StI    -           OU         -        5*'1C     *'ttl   Bit,                        11131IZU13J110   t
-          te        PII     OIC       611         Ouf      *           l'         *        0          -      tlé  *                nuhiîO1s wM -1 it
-          Cm        5tOL Cus    alu   1 'r        l'tli    -           blI S               L ît         u    e s          l'ut   ONt                 -I
-  ,       tut       i'cS    0'6S      *'l         l't      *           r          .          5et1    1*4    LIéS              UIOIUIV » UIUs1*I
rec _I      M    Vlit  211X      elstJ  /»Stlm              vu1w_  1            lWttli  tluz11111 11111 NN Il
IUnu      flO  U    JIII    IIWIUS  *IJSISUI l'Si   Vtt              IIUI I'iN             IlJUt            C'blas NIEl
U1111 EllE                  USIUUSII 1«IN                                    ASIlMI NANa1
iu'iim *.i iI 1I
IU3I   hUONs. N I     ..... . ..... IU



oeil UMMs                               vernI:, i? A59153       -
memasu W        uîM   n         îîAîg                      gcala             KICom              FRAil K                fbtncaI
mmU.*B.      o S ~s*    sSSWA  CE Ban...n...    ma Ol.g.    fltBU8ffl    *JASh         SBS    flUsasS  ... .............
30.J        -                 21.0      25.1                                                                .0.3?3           2.
840.0  -       -   114,1    ~~~~31.3    825.3                                               -    .232 16.4  2524
1.5».,  .~~~       -   109.3    369.3  2.310.5                          -                            3.e65  17.1 2,M353
353.9   102.7                 245.4    132.0  1.014.6             -                        --  021.1J  85.0  174.1
237.3     7.5                 804.7     06.4    123.0                         -                       - 2.182.6   5.0  10P9.
801.6   386.9                 IS36.9    miL                       -                        -               4.057.1   0.8    0.0
640.5    20.9                 440.5     40,4  16.03.1                                                      6.061.0   0.0    0.0
122.'  -         -    73.0~~n-  73,0     MA                                    .6603.0.    6.0  25.2
3*0.01.-                      -     025   0.0    4.4
822.9       -73.0                       73.0    M1.#                    1.032.5       2.606.0              6.73.1.   3.1  250.2
*  -  .                 -        -          ~~~~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~~~~70.1  .      0.7  10.0    M.
*  -  -        -                 -         ~~~~~~          ~     ~      ~        ~ ~~~470.0  -  410.0   0.  0.0
*  .  .     *                    5.6           -                                54~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  0.0    0.0
54.8                                         541.0   8.8    0.0
-   8.094.1                                        1,094.t   0.7    ?.0
3620 415.9                          M .1,  0.1  b.30.6   1.094.1     3.032.5      2.646.0              40.533.2   0.1 3,600.9
-  .  .         .        .             -           .                 18.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~052.4  81,M526   0.0    0.0
si.0 5.;                 589.7    214.5  4.361.7             *.                                        9.52.0   5.0  476.8
*  -  -      *    500.0             -           -            *          -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~560.0  10.0   56.0
8m0.     57.6            -   51.;    284.5  4o928.7                           -                  10 2.6   1.11.6   2.5  532.1
2.047.0  1.200.0 1.866.1  19783.2  1.314.4  1.15.0            -                                         1692      0.9  268.3
-   .         052.4~~52.4                                      2.4   M.    36.3
2.931.01,266,4 1.866.12.232.9  1.530.1  6.671.?          052.4                        - 88,052.6  49,636.1   1.1  029.7M 
6.62M.  SP72.3       1.166.9 4.fl3.   2.439.0  8.040.3        1.16.       3.031.5       2646.0   11,052.6  98,169.3   4.9 4,429.80
545.3    20.0            -   200.5    172.7  1.329.0           44,2           -         60.1           -   4.429.8   0.0    0.0
8.373.2   314.   230.0   942.1    420.5  2.774.1          384.5       569.4         362.8    2.224,2  16.986.3   3.8  645.5
0.547.5  3.136.4     8.396.9 5.074.1  1.040.8  11.84303       2.305.       3,608.9      1.060.9   83,276.8  881,505.    4.5 5.01.3
Ufl.n  Buspg*  ce"..n..  lS..  a.snt.S  8~au               aa.n~    ..f..a..........s   ........ ... 0,..i,   BAua ..n....
1.173.1   143.3        167.6  8.415.5    536.   3.6M52          391,3           .            *     1.92   S9,171.3   5.0  993.6
b.73.4   424.4         895.6  s.952.1    042.1  80.27.4       1.1011.8     2.703.1      2,762.0                        à 574.  .? 2.301.1



ft1 unun n ta uWf«ao nic&SL
Pîmin t Ctuetê h l. -
Cn " tu                                         ww   ew
lm       IM      t ta      tm    Itts      IM   lm fo 0l C Iu          tm         lmll m      tm VolI t I .        tnusM     M     wlu
5*555 enlau.s .... flan.  5 5 _       san 5a1-            ... 4.0 --sassase  s -- ans ffltes sw   n sas..  ...... e*:CS  ans zz . .: t. n
a.     t oenu cMA                                  517.2 3.o07.1 10130.0  8 .    6o-.5  6U2.7   734.1    5.2          -  30.0 1.t41.I   ns.2  65.l   30.   437.   464.6 4.134.,
1. Rom       r MM                                569.  t.331.9 1.23.&   42.    454.6   497.  1.1ille.  .511.0       *      .6   *43.0   784.5  260.0  207.7  314.0  60.4 3.491.0
2. 01ITa10  ISIsI                           -   21.5   *U3.2 1015.3   3.u          m.4   400.s   441.6  4.54.8          114.4   610.6 1,148.9  11U.  210.4  253.5  m.5  2.e81.
3. 50547 III4  imFa                          -   1m2.3   38.0   275.0   18.7   20A.    3.1    22.4  1.693.          -  121.1   243.6   174.6  121.0  130.4  135.2  140.1  5.072.0
4. son-statio 5 n    nMB                     -    19.6   104.0  1n.6   110.7   206.1   213.7   M.   1396.0              113.7   11.0   821.3  125.   130.4  135.7  140.7    4.1
shitotelait lam  3 S1                          - t217.1  2.U4,0 3.522.4  1.22.  1.10.1  1.321.       M 1.0 13.149.5    -      .3 1.8.1  2,220.4  n1.6  750.0  4.0 s.201.3 0.122.5
C. «tU R£101                                192.0    09.2 2.060.2 2.70t.2   5n.5   574.1  1.0M.5   6a.?  0.24.2  121.5  372.  1 30.9 1714.0  361.7  3.3  6*77.;  43.* 5.».
O. a5naE Fl?U ISM
1. «NIE 161N 57                              -   2012.4 35-.3 2.511.1   57.2   525.   545.4 1.0e2.0  1n2m0.9        -  178.7  lfe.1   3.589.7  321.0  133.0  345.2  67.1  4.U6.2
2. 0416140 I1Umm?o                           .   81931    041-0   132J   27      2PJ   2tl.1   447.2  2eW57.4       -  122.6   595.6   210.5  171.4  17.  14.e   2U-1  15.743.
86-tU         E «     110fl8W8                 -   476.t  2s0U.4 2.044.2   7n.0   006.0   en3.? 1.509.2 10.07.3            30-.3 1,7112 S0.1  42.4  510.6  520.5  ss.2 4.365.4
t. «arn t
t. «8618  MOIR0                           324i 1,158.6 17n.4   40.6   017.9   503.1   097.    074.5  o6U.03.   20.   73.3 1#.08.    2n2.5  501.0  319.0  631.53  553.5 4.200.5
2. 011140 1u6?                            16-2   453.7   051.5   284.    2rr   les..      MA    400.1  298.9.0  10.3  2..    53.0   l7J   SU.6  103.5  227.7  2513.2 1,879.5
3. 05-87140m                                 -    7.6  184.0  191.6   110.7   206.1   213.7   222.4  1.96.9         -  113.?   17.0   121.3  125.0  130.4  135.2  140.7   04.1
n dE4ola1 «UN  181540                  40.3 1m.193.  2,157.0   006.5 X*1l.48    1,015.1 8.571.3 1 496.9  11|wl.001.7 .6 1.835.4  8.745.4   57.7  LJ.3  642.   0.5  94;.  46.63.1
f. «118  zM      I4NI6M)
1. «31lit .                              60.4   648.6 1.239.  1.006t   531.4 2 90.-5  S.2.    744.9   ,547.5  30.2  416.5        7.3 19206.7  336.3 1.4U.4  717.9  471.5 5.8D.e
2. E161540 N IA                                  1000 1105.0    12.8   200.0   207.4   87.1   20.4  2.136.4         -   114.4   817.7   122.0  126.     1    556.4  103.0 5.35.o1
3. t4-SlTA1I        v          -                   It . 8t0.6 I84.S   M.    110.7   205.1   21-7   M.   1.3.9       -   13.7   187.0   t2L.3   50   M3A.   325  .140.7         A1
*      l «a     .M1  (t )                   60.4 1.0.0 1..4 2.29.1   030.0 18    2.25.2   257.7  8.2,000.7  32  63 1.6 1.031.9 1. 0 U 571.011404.5    0-.  7,646.0                                              O'
O. 00  5088181 (IVULINI                                                                                                                                                                                        -
1. tmE 10E                                 '-77.6 1,284.7 1,627.5   405.3   42M.3  gB2.7   s82.3  SV4.5             -  178.9   813.1 1.030l  256.   26.0  550.7  621.7 si,710.0
t. 0314 f180                             2-.    29.  1013.5   257.&   267.1   2770   3340          i.2  3,0408  17.0  430.3   14.9   863.0  10i1   175.3  2m1.4  2431  3.24.1
&(    rEr. mm8  7111 lul@.IE                2i.9   951.5 2.0.  ItlBSI   6.    607.3 1216,  1.3.5  8.014.   17.0  102.2 3.327.9 1.8.i1  425.6  441.3  7M0-1  04.  5.042.2
I. SIBE le fv0f11                           90.0 3,411.0 4.3.1 3.445.  1.0.3 27M1.3 197M2   2.200.3 89.143.S  57.6 2.159.4 2.558.  2It0. 1.207.8 8.47,6 1.821i. 3.34. 12.116.2
1. SMICI8  ICOEME t3l0t8l5tE N1T85 9)   51.1   299.5   43.6  0B.3    5t-1  8I2.9   11.9   175.8  2.05.   32.-3  19.6   276.3 -            se.l   *.4        10A  J.0  111.2 1.4510.
J. ftuIl4 i n  ssUCE uaOR
1. liiil                                    -   311.4   41.5   5 4.0   748.0   68.0   644A1    10.0  3.t01.         -  20.t7   310.4   36.5  413.4  432-.  407.7   0.6 2.2t.?
. duISIOU  OlM                           343.3  7M.4  619.5   533.1   305.2   243.0   117.4   145.4  3.06-.  287.3  443.3    2.1   337.   13.   154.3  182.3   n2.0 142.1
&àotal   14001340? a034« 1                  343.-3 8031.0   7100  .82.0 1453.1   926.7   e21.5   255.4  6            7u.3  -53.O   702.5   7 -.4  U65  586.5  520.   161.  4222.0
._.
tAl t£o          F                            -   s525  ItM.  1.7dt.5 lf9u5 2#1.7I   t Use n0M-9 13#2n- ~ -    4.6 1e07.  letu-e lo2t4.1 127J.2  o,3 5.5 1e404 to-e e .S  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    ___ ____-   -                             --_----   -     -----         aq 
t.    B1   c5m                               U,12.9 11U1*6 23.271. 22.54.2 1i547.0 12.950.0 130.3 13.105 18.3 585.4  1450. b14  4.72.5 84.250.5 e..  .104.2 8W74.3 1e .s 70a6.62 2D.
,oh  lie1   147 lot



-  SJS  E uB waoa  BICOU -
hoe  CWiol b, tqi
bu cos. tcl
Sm     I tino   M       lm Mn an        îrn      lmn    tipi        M         lm nt O
m.aa« "&s""  au...  ans." , ""u. , a S .f   a-.... a.                            ;
I. ^E« -MN  CMB                                       e.5  î.476.2   neo.   035.1   477.         tr 5183 4.    5,26.0   3,329.2
1. amI 1101s                                  -   500.1  1122. 12041.5   30.8   32.6    M2.?   7MA   488.   2s.53.7
3. 81110 liS Ji                              -   25.1   7M.4 1,4n2.    21.9   26,    iii.i   32.8   3.6no.0    2W.zp
3. WWS-gtîît Ri Sat                           -   176.9   124.0   23.3   166.t7    166-1   tU.7   WM.7   1.401.0          eu.?
4. s3U-531001  NAN                            -   11    la6.7   166.e   166.7   166.7   146.1   166.7   1.166.8           73.5
$*toutlEt   llS -60                                 1.103.7 2.400.3 2.814.5   *33.0   8é0.8  1024.2  a.410.2  l0.1t-.?   6.006.0
C.  Umn *IE166                               149.3   486.   1768.5 2e000.    468.8   453.0   022.1   101.0   6.611.2   4o222.1
. «mn Fiummsi
I. CM   IS IMMYSIW                            -   256.1 t8o04.  2.06.8   416.    416.5   416.5   784.0   5956.0   3.06.4
g. atm971  AMIC                               -   170.1   781.1   279.9   225.0   22n.0   225.0    M2A    20262.    1432.1
bb461 alu     it£  u 0t-   434 2 2.302.1  2.340.   641.5   641.s   641.5  s111.    0.ll0.7   5,138.4
. CillE l£TUA                              27.1   966.4  15s0.4   36U.1   714.3   319.2   767.5   643.5   .30-.1   3.412.1
2. 9TAT11N  TA  t                           t2J    317.0  m11.1   206.3   244.3   244.3   27.5   264   2.40,l   1124.1
3. oflU-I10N                                  - t866.    166.7   166.7   166.7   166.7   166.7   166.7   1.14.           73.1n
é1 41  mlmIE                                  391 .5 10.2  2.30.       70.6 1,125.3    02  1211.6 s1106.5   06       61 564.1
f. UtilE f 49I     f <01110
I. Co=  K0                                 46.9   5291  I52.6 1.423.6   420.0 10743.5   063.3   543.0   6629.0   4,115.6
2. st1i6a   0*0                                    167.1   167,1   161.  1061.?   014.7  660.5   215,8   19e.72.    1.09.1,
3. tilFSt0l0l0 w1T                            -   146.7   166.7   166.7   166.7   lé6.1   I66.7   166.7   11»6.9          730.5
_       -        _-   _.-_  .__-          -      __        -               _ .---
b.t8.t19   mm    1 1  1        1               0.9   s6.s  l.307.0 110.0   762.4  2.7.J  t.6.5   M2A.   9.518.2   6024.2
0. tli 10000106  t0161.0)
1. amN   lqui59-   24S.S  I,O06.6  1.369.5   334.3   334.3   63.0   M27.2  47.23.5   2e9.
2. STATION  NIM                             20.4   V5. 4   459.5   221.8   221.0   221.0   250.0   285.1   2.43,0   0,543.6
S9.8Tot PtIE 106106 0WlWl)                    20.4   m.,  in.6.1  1,591.4   556.2   56.2   101.0  1.012.3   71.62.4   4.533.2
M. iuCE au FtV0                                90.0 2895.0  3270.7 2,682.4  1.480.1  0,719.8  0323.2  1.521.2  15.040.3   9,599.2
1. ECTIel sl«1<110t1 190 St11 iImmOvO         49.0   214.8   381.0   737.0   126.4   126.4   126.4    2.4   1e46.5   l.231.
I. 9t60                                       -   307.5   442.5   517.5   427.5   552.5   502.5    02L5   3.032.s   1,818.
2.   1PS ttSt                              322.0 6o35.0   547.0   454.0   249.0   l93.0   IJ7.0   1098.    2.646.    1u674.1
9.8 . Vimt00n tI USIStIm  t150t10K            322.0   94.5   m.5    m1.s   076.5   745S   638.5   191.5   56710.1   3.s 4.0
(D E0
1i.     _ .                                       .1458.2  e.43.1 1,539.4  1.59.  nU674   .940.  1.61.5  81.953,6   695«4                                                                                                  L n
M-toti   flS  E    _                              -010<.  1.41N.2  1.493.7 l.539.4 185969   .27.4 1.658-5  1.678.5  81t912   6.95.3                                                                                           Ih
t1l MaIME am51                                  707.4 11257.1 08t67.0 10,234-8 9,402.2 10,257.0 10,0.0 101        90l.19 8.Ut.3  5740.2                                                                                        '
fwuatà dCtu       n                           79.1  7M2.-  1,386.8 1.325.3   29S.5   219.3   200,6   m2.    4.429.0   2.003.
o      C#                                     263   n2sn  2277.3  2.24.0  1060.2  2,473.7  b3b.0        394,l8  I.63   10b5S
êta PM  C      m «1                              12  02.006 23.211.0 22.48482 11,541.9  2.95 e         8011.3 83018.3 -Si11.4  71042.
s-s  as...  ssaws. sflaa   aaSs:saaasa as.»s:ac.  waasasa  .s i_
14m                                           65.9  156.1 435.1 4599.7  0,16.6  2.200.4 2.555.3 2e351t.6  18.971         82640.1
fot                                          592.6  4026.1  0.924.3  9.010.3 3045.3  *.332.3 3.683.7    20.6  35.143.   220M.6



Blm Ccoots               -     - -------- -*-**                                    ----                 lotiS bel. cent.             lOtt. Plus,
LICeS                            Ltict                   .....-. ---                 -----. ---  pet"Cu.. Bau Cnsts
toe.l IC.oeI, Bat,., I       SIrRd. Baa,6(Uri. hianl S                                           LotiS Iidx. Mct,. I           on Pfraital  Prie, cut.
For. [Acht.   ltuesl    taxes   total   Fr.f inch. Taxe,I  tous  total   For. luth. TuaiS  lie.    Total   for. Euch.   Tieeg     Tiie    total       totit.    on Obu (set,
I. fhltlR*lIE t LAJUATOI0(          1.704,5     1.141.7   852.3  W.05.3      261.0  375.9   110.5  567.4       269.7  103.1   134.8   506.3    2.235.2     1.506.3 10117.6  4,859.1       644.6       44214.5
2. LOKEOT                               3.062,7     ?.333.6 1,731.4 1.527.1      605.9  400.3   303,0 1.311.2      505.5  340.7   25.8 Is.09?    4.574.2       3.012.6 2.217.1'  t.913.8    lo483.9       8.460.0
3. 06114011 l'OLOIAIIUo                   464.3       312.9   232.1  1.009.3     301.0   68.6    50.1  22.3         59,5   39.0    39.6   128.5      625.2       420.3   302.6  1.359.0       244.1       1.115.0
4. EMME/tC1ROCITE                         700.1       4fl.2   350.3 1.52.2       116.1   78.2    Ud,  252.4         98.3   46.2    49.3   213,6       t35.0      616.6   457.5  1.91.2        2-8.        1,706.
0*.0-1.4  06811 CIVIL (FOIMA               6933.2     4e207.3 3.146.1 03.765.6    1.04.   7311.   542.4 2.35.3        M326  62.5   466.3 2.0O7.3    8.349.5       5.626.9 4,174.0  110151.2    2F655.3     15.495.9
a. IMUMI IF061961                          3t.49.     1.900.0   432.4  5.831,3      524.8   M.50    64.9  874,7      503.9  302.7    06.5   973.0    4.607.5      2.407.7   503.9  7.679.1    1.000.6       616».!
C. 403., Mt. ET umu. (fEIfaI                545.7       578,2 1,066.0 2.0e2.6        27.3    mi.   53.3  19,0.        79.9   03.3   M5.3à  309.5        652         602.0  89276.5  2.U1,I.3    124.1       2,486.9
9. 06110111 IRICAI <(BIlAS                  971.6     2,892.>   993.6 4.057.1                                        1    70.3  101.3   074.0   051.6    1.140,9  304MA  I.167.6  5.700J          0.0       5,70.5
8 . Ç[M1CRILE1 <(BilAi                     3,274.4      305.9 2,607.4 6,063.0                                        662.0   10.0    WJ7.  1227.4    3.937.2        210.7 3.03.2  7.295.2         0.0       7.291.2
0. iISiTîoooe oluE                      3.210.1      39.9   127.1 3.705,         204.3   23.1    22.0  250.2      420,6   47.0    14.3   481,9    3.0432         430.1   164.2  4.437.S      274.0       4,162.7
3. fATl00 FulA                          2.275.6      >16.9          3.032.5 3                                     427.5  141.0       -    69.4    2.703.         0908        -  3,601.9        0.0       3.601.9
1.h-IO.t.0   tu Ahl TI CIROl              5,493.9     5.106.9   027.1 6,737.9       204.1   23.1    22.0  250.2      040.   106.      54.3 19051.3    605414.3    0.320.8   064.2  0,039.4      274.0       17.74.6
1. ONII CIVIl ÎW. 0100101                 32.5        21.9    16.3    70J          M.    2.2      8.6    7.0        3.9    2.6      0.9     0.4       39.7        a6.?    09.0     06.2         7.0         70.4
à. (W1P1EI  310303                       202.0       164.5    23.5   470,0                 .       -       -       42.2   24.6     3.5      0.],     324.2      18.1    27.0    540.3                      54.3
z.        OEMUSA                                       4.0      0.0     5.6                     -                           0.7     0.0     0.0                    5.4     0.0      6.4                      6.4
4. A.?, lm)SA                             492.1       54.7      0.9   547.01       0.6    0.5     0.1    0.0       50.2    1.6      0.1    55,0      542J9        60.3     1.1    604.3        0.0         60M.
------ --- -                    --    -            --      -.-.-------------                                                                --                                   Os
0.0-IoUI 1.ORIIIMJI 04SS                    006.7       2459    41,5  1.094.0         3.9    2.3     5.7    7.0       96.2   3345      5.7   535.3      906.7       200.6    40.J  3,237.3        0.7       5206
VoteS IMITENT 10510                         20.923.2    00.574.0 0.435.8 40.53.2    0.04S. 0.06.9  60.2 3M.60.        3.173.8 1.7110.9 1.430.# 9 45.6   26.042.0    14.02.7 50.553.2 50.710.9    4.004.7      46.654.2
Il. au catit
I. ruts0 E 91PSB                            -      9.76,  016.3    01.052ito.6             - -         -               1.987,3   216.J  2.224.2              10.60.5 0,593.2 13.276.0         -0.0      93.276.0
3. u*<0  MUt. M3.                     2.856.6    4.260.3 2.405.  9.522.0       142.0  203.0   830.3  476.1      604.0 101.077   170.5  .200.3    3.603.1     5.491.1 3.003,0  12.270.4     504.7      30.693.7
Fm TE. 080                              60.0       324.0    67.2   160.0        16.0   32.5     6.7   56.0       20.5   55.,   10.4    9506        31.3       402.4    0.3.     nià.        il4.         646.
$*-Totbt DmE  E 51130.10  <(8916          3.024.6    14.111.A  3.798.6 20.134.4    359.6  2045    12.0  532.0        702.6 3.03.1   OUJ  4.519.4    3f.86.      07,0070 4.70.3 26.266.0        64.3       20.16.
Dm 06  E P00Sm  <90(0163                4.436.4    19,690.2 3,522.6 21.649,2      14,0  145.1    41,4  261.3       910,7 3.9>0.0   12.  3.622.2    5.49.9    23.053.3 4.20.4 33.53.6          307.6     53,214,1
lm 10. UV. UT.                          163.9      256.0   125.7   546.4        0.2   52,0      0.5   27.3       34.0   53.3    26.1   153.3       306.1      32.9  855.0        WJ7.       32.7         654.3       0
2. I08CTISBEWT                ~~~~~~54.0   99.    153.0   306.0        2.7    0.0      4.5    9.0       32,3   30.6    32.9    65.0       69.0       321.4  0910.4     M.0         00.0         369.9
811-1teu1 00E  E 8111<1   (Sm>              207,9       3550   270,7   852.4        10.,   14.6    l0.8   36.3       46.3   73.9   'POO   519.2        21.1        444.3   340.4  1.007.0       43.7       0.22 



<600 ImîlitonI                                                           (M 1S 000
90 190 19         92     99     19E      15      196 111           9911991        99      99      99     94   19        96 1
*Ca   na. ..n..... n....... .S...... ....... enl,   S...nnS          .,   .... .. an... 4..... ,l±f   nl.SftS    ffl   l*
a. 6101 CIVIL rFOeg,A)
1. O8IOIIBAIOO  1 18006016               322.3  1.310.4  2.615.4   528.0                           4,05.l         207.1   047.1  1.087.0  314.2                         *>.
t. 1.06161111                ~~~~~~~-o1.04     4,207.8 49628.9    60.6  -                   9.948.8     *662.4 2.660.  2.129.?   18.4           -623.
3. 1511611  0'111l081A110           129.2   546.5   441.1    73.0             160.4       -       *1.39.0  01.A  14.9   279.2    46.7             -106.6                - 90.
4. <aiituciocîii                              8 86.4  8.064.1   >38.               -                     ,192       - 11.0   673.5   467.6         -                     -8259.0
I.-oi1 t¶1 CIV1.(ÇI A             129.2 2.806.6  7.051,4  89106.9   Sa8,?   148.4       -        - 1845.2  01.0 1.33.3 4.462.9 5.130.9  372.6  8046                   -1148.
I. IMII9EU  EFPIFAI                         - 1l991.0 2.902,5   M9.1   649.5   503.1   550.7   690.3  7$09.1          - 1420.à  1.837.0   24842  411,1  311.4  348.6  4369  4.86.2
C. 808.. mi. O1 foI. (i~fAI *é                      87.0   09.3 1.310.4   259.7     0.9    62.2        -  2.611.3     -   55.6   563.5   029.   164.4    0.6   39.4         - te652.7
a. 4811111 s0icul (610F11                   -   242.0  1.92.6  l.210.4   193.6 1,04.0.   513.0   57n.5  5.709.5       -  155.7 1.218.7   766.1  122.S  663.   326.4  36.4 3.613.6
g.  COLU;i «,rwiF                          -   769.5 1.428.?  1.164.?       -   02.6 1,602.2 14939.5  7.M2 1.            481.0   90.2   M3.2         -554,6 1#.04.   M0.0  4.614.7
1. ASISIII  T(080M                    531.9  1.18667 1#.05.    731.6   363.4   243.0   177,f   145.4  44.43.  336.6  758.1   669.2   443.0  230.0  154.3  112.3   12.0 2.00.5
2, 6?RNA    690164                            33iA1.4   490.5   594,9   748.0   481.0   644.1   110.0  8.608.9         209.?  $11.4   374.5  473.4  432.3  407.7   69.6  2.279.7
se-tIotal 988191681  11080A             531.   31.8.1 1.547.8  8.326.4 1.111.4   926J    021.5   M55.   0.0é9.  336.6  960.8   979.    03.5  703.4  5116.5  520.0  161.? 5,808.2
s. îmmsiîwoi Doms
I. 6111 cmL EC. 1110(7011               -              6.2       *                        -       -      8.2      *       -    54.6               -              -           54.6
MIN" 01 1611 1 SA                                           50.3        -                              540.à                          348.9      -                           41.9
3. USILIII tub)                          -        -             6.4        -       *        -       -      6.4      -      *              4.1      -                            4.1
4. A.?. lISSA                          50.9   194.0   204.3   055,2        -                             604.3  12.2  12.8   129.3    18.2         -                     - 325
I.b-h194119616111  §%MS                 50.9   194.0   290.5   701.9                                     1# -8233.3  32,2  822.8   1113.9   444.2    .                     - 731
total 1udeI111I Cms                        782.0 6.909.8 16.036.0 14.212.0  2.062.8 0530.18  1.602.4 2.911.8  50.718.9  450.6 4J,3733 10.149.9 8.995. I .173. 2.234.5 2.210.0 1.042.# 32.100.5
S.  E   Sm£16189  469016*
.FIAis a fliShI.                          8.571.5  1.655.7 8,69.5 1,80.5 2#488.7 2.126.0 2o.289  13.36.8         .994.6 14,011J  14120.0 1.24. 8.273.2 193.345 1,417.8 8.483.0
2. 11AIM   mu8. M.1                    8.3   419.7 1.130.6  1,602.4 1ol.&3.  23.018.  2.470.e 3.061.?  12.278.4   5.3  246.6   715.0  1,014.2 8,100.4 1.289.9 1.560.  ét0n1.3  hm.77.
3. 610(. 016111                       90.9    94.0    97.5   101.2   104.9   10808   112.8         -     711.0  52.6   60.0    61.?    64.0   66,4   60.8   n1.4         - 450.0
tm>toU0l MM19 X   MUE i1619  F11114>     99.3 2,006.0 2.983.9  3.473.1 3.747.0 4,1M.6 4,787.6 5.100.0  26,266.1  62.0 1.320.2 1.02.2 2.199.2 2,371.5 2432.0 2.905.0 3.20.3 16.624.8                                .
0. 0906  K ftORMo   <FlIFIFAI             1.5  3,707.4 4s204.3 4,646,8 48041.9 5.09060  5.32.  5.631.2 33P.53.6   0.9 2p397.1 2.661.0 2,448.0 b.06.9 3#226,6 3,368.6 3.564.0 21.223.2
C. 09E6  1901111t    lissAI 
I. IAAO. Eh. ni.                       0.  806.1    91.2    94.6    99.1   101.7   105.5   109.?    607.0   0.1   54.5    57.?   59.9   62.1   U4.4   66.7   09.5   434.0
3. 6~~~110uk.&0T             -    I~~~9.i    54.9    56.9    59.0    61.2    63.5    66.0    30.8           12.3    34.7    36.0   37.3   30.7   40.2   4.8.   248.0
0dmh4.lcu 0 906   SI9811I10 (1596         0.1   105.5   146.1   151.5   857.1   162.9   160.9   115.   tO1.16.    0.8   66.8    92.4    95.9   9.4  10.1  106.?  181.2   675.
total   nrar cmi                           100.9 5. 70.  723-4*3  ,2478.,4 0.4.   .1    020910.9907.7 6404.866.  'a3-4 8.7-4-.t -4.5.6 5.235,1 5.53-4-.8   6. 6.o461.3 6.903.6 30.523.1I
00. 0095£CT cm1                             8.91.8. 2-3.2,71.0 2-2.4e04,.2 1.4.129001-3=811.3 13.P8190.5 *11"1.58.4 514.5 8.157..4 14.720.5 1.230 7î,O.O 0.1962 8.#741.3l 8.74l".% 7-0e8623.
IM    11107S..   aa..asMaaa.  a.n    a...nsas   aaas.6.5    atS8*dfbSlfflff..    aansan8l.a



Local fluel btil a            (te#.1 bu4uinea.              P,toms Ciliioe  aeLal .                                           PvbtosugCM ablr  nS
l'lofs)                    t~~ma)Imstu            o.tb          ltm         ttl fr tub..8                         -.P,.otal  eCut.  P,staCl
a. auxEO <8851(Fi0&
8. 10081510t1Mn a L6000T010(            1.070.0      n23.    53.4 2.345.2        l6aiz 911.3    02.6  M5.1       in0.?  585.0    85.3   378.0    8,484.7       853.4   707.3 3.015.4       400.0     2.66>
3.  miEui                               7.800.6     l.477.0 19.08.  4,764.4      Mails 338.4   188.7  M3.,       318.8  215.6   040.0   695.1a   2109.0       8.1951.6 1.447.5 6.293.6    9p.t        5.354
3. 00118<01 0'IXPOIIATII0                293.0       198.0   846.9   63B8.       64.4  43.4    32.2  140.0        37A    215.2    80.7    01.3      MJ5.        2116.6   îo,.s   0602      154.5       705
4. (Ui(UCIOCITE                          403.5       29.0   221.?   864,0         73.1a  49.5    3.?  159.7       63.2   41.8    31.1   135.2      517.8 1.    200.6 l.259.0               129.0      I.00
9*-Total 01281 CIVIL <(0111*3             4.007.7     2.00.81 2.03.9 0.782.4       686.6 462.7   343.3 1.492.6      50.237.0   29.1  Mail3la    5204.5          3.568.3 2.642.31 l8t4U.l    5,60.5      110107
0. (001010  <1018(4>                      2.214.4     8.202.5   273.0 3.690.7      332.2 100.4    4.1.  553.6       369.5  890.6    54.0   685.8    2.816.1      14>74.5   360.6 41060.2      633.8     4.226
C. Ma0. MI. ET TOM0. ((0117*1               345.3       360.9   675.2 1.388.4       87.3  10.0    33.0   68.0        50.6   52.7    08.8   202.2      483.2       431.6   007.8  14.65.        70.7      8,574
0. Umilala.uN        <(FPIFAI               614.9'    8.830.8   628.8  3.074.6               .       -107. 0  8.0   110.1   5394.    72.7                       2,158.8   730.0 3.683.6                 3.613
MCULEOAS <(011161                        2,7n.4       815.1 8.650.3  Malle0                     -                  488.5   23.3   334.0   776.0    2.488.8       138.4 1.004.3 4.614.1                 4.684
P.USZSTMIP 111011M
8. AmSitiff  lImwiS                    2.036.8       227.0    00.5 2.34.2       828.3  14.6    t4.4  850.4       266.2   28.7     8.0  3m.e    2.432.4         272.2   883.8 29.00.        07n.8     2.634
2. Fmt8M  Fuiré,                       1,440.2       478.8          8.8881.3                      .              270.6   8.8.       -   30.4    8.710.0       15601.0         2.229.7                2.270
0.*-T4uI *iitSmio mioe1005                3477.2        106.9800.5 4.264.5         129.3  14.6    84.4              SU4 3.0  118.5   8.0   665.3    4.143.2       048.f   803.8 5.0081.2     873.8      4.80
1. UOnI CIVI SEC?. 0801130E               20.6        03.8    80.3    44.0        2.1   1.4     8.0    4.5         2.5    8.7     8.2     5.3       25.8        16.,   82.6    54.6         5.0         40
2. (SIOEIENT  EI                         170 i.5     804.8    84.0   287.5-                                       26.7   85.6     3.2    44.5      205.2       lit.?    87.1   348.8          -        34
3.  38l1E0 <(Sa>                                       3.0     0.5     M.           .                                     0.5     0.8     0.5          -         3.5     0.6     4A8          .
4. 64. <(1168                 ~~~~~~      ~~~388.5  34.6  0.6   346.7   0.4   0.0     est    0.5       31.7    3.5     0.0    35.3       343.6        38.2     M.   302.5         0.5       386
0*-Tala  I81OTOSEIOI  ESSA  58.6  855.     26.3    92.5        2,    1.4      0.     5.0       6.8   30.2      3.6 8..          57348       870.3    3.0   703. 565                 7
touta tA101180 0551                         83,.425      7.072.7 5.33.7 25.653.9    1.867.7 677.2   433.6 2.27.6    2.83.3 1.127.2   M0.6 4.160.8   16.545.6       8.077.0  467.600 32.800.5    2.573,6    28.521
i1. -f la 110
a. ooom  K Riomitru <1811
i. muis g paMg2                             .     6.1155.9   38.4 6.8005.3                                          -       19230.  6.8 14 . 1407.7         7.384.6 8.0010,4 0.403.0                1 040
2. 10*5(5  EV. [xiT.                   8.0108.0   2.606.4 8.522.2 6.026.6       80.4 834.0    7649  388.3       433.0  644.1   366.8  8.443.2    2M.31.      3.475.4 8.964.4 7.771.1      370.8      7.40
lé Font. 111M0                           806.3      20.6    42.5   354.4        10.6  20.6      4.3   31l.4      801.0   34.0    7.3    60.8       835.0      261.0    54.0   450.0        40.8       40,
$1110to.. mm1  gE SturmLS  <10111*1       8,884.3    8.057.8 2,404.2 13.376.3      801.0 155.4    00.4  M34l       458.0 1.817.8   542.3 2.810.0    2.466.3   188838.0 3.02.01 16.624.4      411.0    16.21
0. 000810E 00(O000  <1018141             2.007.01   12,462.0  2o22.5 17.498.5      47.3  81.0    26.2  165.4       501. 2.587.0   08.1 3.55.3    3.436.7    85«.07l ?784.0 21.223.2          208.0     ta8.02
C. am08  k 118610  <SiI
8. lm. MW. off.                         803. 7      862.5    29.5   345.0        5.2   0.1      4.0   81.3       alla  33.7    16.5    78.7       130.4       204.4   140.0   434.8        20.7       48
2. miSC801888                           34.2        62.7    86.0   183.7         8.7   8.1     2.0    5.7        7.8   83.0    20.01   41.7       '43.7       76.0   12e.5   241.0         4.8       23
&»tu  0001E    SmTO81 CE <SSAI             83,81.      M2.2   876.4   538.          6.0   8.1      6.01  33.0       28.    46.0    3.3   111.4        174.0      201.3   220.5   675.0        27.6       64       <
Co
1i    <II    SS                       4.860.8    21.745.3  4.800.0 31.491.3    155.3 256.4   003.4  525.1    8.068.10 4112s  8,0130.7 6.502.7    6.677.8    26,40.8 5#9.16. 31.523.1      3.        70          .0
Total                          10.802.6   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20,017.8 10.140.7 57,068.2    0.32.0  M3.6   547.0 2,403.7    3d88.8 5.611.4 1044.3 80.750.    22.42.7    15J360.9 12.640.8 70.M3.  39212.2    67.41 
hidi 80. 80   10:47



1. 10*99in c00                                 3IE     L 00006030
................n  0JII h56
CIVIL grertroi) ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     Oee  ul
. ............. ~     ~           ~           #Siml,.5ro,î <h
I. 3111P Cbit"   S tiém100 438                           W            5.          oA.103 4.                                 6
2. 10021601                            -   0141.  3à.o1.   453       4. MA                          . S211    46.0    M.?6.
3, 04111Wo  VtftOIIâIm                    1 9.M4.0    WlM   56.    03 1 MJ.0                    -34   1.000.3   046       464.1
4. 041#c1151311u -rrré                            1 OP116.016. 036.4 19.4                          .l      1 2 46.    vis.1
106.3 V   00I 0CIVILWEW                 100.0 b11.63.  5e.55.  59,01.4   431.        100.6   - mt    40.1.1      .6 46.0  640.
0. rntooqui   tmioîaî                 46 .0069.5 2.37.    ti.61  47.0   53.0   31V.              109.0  5.63.3   60.0  3,410.0
0. 111(0501   1C00 <(IF >                      235.3 1.7.3  51.05.      6J.   00.    4024   4214   4.0%:.0   35.0  Z7.M
$0. EUICwSima Uloal u                      -    1.0121.  103.                     3405.0    1.04.1 30610 5.0  3.27M4A
V. 811011111f16(111(30340
3. ouliîo  miiit Sm.5    425 111                                      67,    5.5T025T2.   1.O.    45.0   $2.235.
1.*-IUI 6011S1fi16                                              MA04  6.   .3.   .3.   .1.  81.  45 115 1156137.0  01.51  M.45
1.21   33 C.  0100K                                   107 (M                      .                      75.1    44.     32.1
3. (03001.     9 t. t40.0 lu410.0 me                                                                              .0    M0.0
%. 4031o 0  <ESSAImn   IMM5M6 m.6                                                                                        11.6 00  .00
total 104011113 COSIS                     6103  53. 1-3011261.1. ..6           6  2,111J   3.150.53.55   53.         5.0311
a..  ...... .mio<V 
I.miIs E h(0sS0L-54                              1.03.1  lol.51.  10396.9 1,0.4  0.65A  0.S 63.5  13t.05.      0.0      0.0
2. 101(46 SEM<. M3.                  1.     1.0   013.4 5o.32.  1e.10.  le3.3  1.411.7 2.43.4  0.532.0   a0.0  1.016.6
3. ll~~~l. 031105         00.0    0~~~0.0    toi0    00.0   80.0    00.0    00.0            560.0   35.0    I6IR4
1011.  IUS E 5110110  40190>        71110.   .4.    .4    39006.0 1l.31.  3.0M.2 31210.9 210134.4   14.3  3.024.6
0. DUmG  K 70000mW  <1001(1              5.4 3.035.5  3.163.  4.003.6 4.03.3 4.00.4 0,300.7 40510.3 37.640.2   16.0  4,426,4
C. 0400  M 51411P  01563
I. lii. SEIN. M1.                     0.1    76.8    M0.      10.4    10.4    10A      10.4    10.  .4 SU      311.0    563.0
3. #0lKICIl0211                         -    360    40.0    411.0    40.0    40..0   08.       40.0    16.0   11.6      14.0
Io-tout DmU  K 514013*  <(Si             0.;    14.1   13.       2. 26.4        526.4 Mi 36.4   134.  6.4 OÏA       .6    211.1
total 00*1(0  coIsy                        00.2 %.M1.? 6904P.3 1.017.0  7m.211.7 ,m4  71.055.3 0,2.   1661    Mi4  1,610.
total 11021146 CCIII                        107.4 13.351.1 11.07.0 10.23.  90.40.2 80.257.0 1#0.#6. 8101,110.0 0014,160  3.1*  3P6103.
lhwat*I Coe4nts4wrin                      70.5 8       M 1.6.  5.335.3oM   Mà.   213.3   35.6   32.5  49431.0   47.3  3.00.4
prie.Cn,.cu                               26.3   0»J20.  33.3 2134.0  5M.00.  3.413.1 3.06.  1.46.0  16.006.3   20.   5.41.4
1.1.1 ffiACI Colis                         032.0 13.0006 23,371.0 3,111.00.  5,1547.0 U12.19. 113.011.3, 53430,53 53535.A   32.0  5.7431.1
fins.                                    61.  3.i.14f5.   .5 l70.5A  3.1004 2.115.3 3.51.6  10.171.3    6.0                   0.0
Forngi (.e11.g                501.6~~~M    4p.026.7  .02.3 1.0110.3  3,4.331.3  3.403.  3436àfU.6 35.43.0    0,6    0.0
a.t  t.....................      .......



-67-                        A_N 5
MADAGASCAR
National Agrieultural Research Program
IDA Disbursements
Financial       Semester    Profile           Projected        Disbursed in
Year                      Cumulative        Cumulative       Semester
Diabursement    Disbursement
Percentage 1/
(Z)           --      -  millions-------
90                 1               2                 0.5           0.5
2              6                 1.4           0.9
91                 1              10                 2.4           1.0
2             16                 3.8            1.4
92                 1              23                 5.5           1.7
2             30                 7.2           1.7
93                 1              37                 8.9           1.7
2             44                10.6           1.7
94                 1             50                 12.0           1.4
2             58                13.9           1.9
.          95                  1             66                15.8            1.9
2             75                18.0           2.2
96                 1              83                19.9           1.9
2             90                21.6           1.7
97                 1              97                23.3           1.7
2            100                24.0           0.7
1i  *Madagascar Agrieultural Sector"



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
NADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   ISNAR, 1981 Report (both In French and Englisb)
2.   National Agricultural Research Program (both in French and
English)
3.   National Agricultural Research Program (in French only)
(preparation document)
4.   Implementation Volume (Working Papers) (in French only)
1. Introduction
2. Pleut Production Research
3. Animal Production Research
4. Farming Systems; Forestry, Agro-Forestry and Soil
Conservation Research
5. Computerization and Analysis of Research Information
6. Research Station Nanagement
7. Infrastructure Program
8. Financial Management and General Accounting
9. Financial Report and Auditing Requirements
10. Analysis of FOFIFA Financial Statements
11. Costa and Financing



FOFIFA ORGANOEA1ON                                CART 1
2 9.121
<PiuItoe~Lc=2~-
a
8~~~~~~~~~~~~
p.,I. ôwlapuvnt ~M1D                                   14                                     laodSflm
a ci<mnoe~~~~~~~~ceAa)  Odotsom
Cala (L=eAalro)       sataam
3. 0.cfuLwGâflàal<OG)                             KIoe4OSOO             Uar4oe~xbto    toe m. fdaw
(Dk«twe«"                                        pdwxuordam            AnNORoeuoan a  k       u
4-'  kCarkiwik eGe gianahwsdfle                                   Tùdmvoey
S.  4~oedGodloencdepaa.w      etl e
Vôéaçokoenw*dmReuaLEuxHuYx1,w»
<Peiuw  MoeigvnoeunMrd 'una                                    16.let,*IhaleFraco
6.S.olc brimw»ln. Pubàllcatoei Dacumianatlan                   17. C«of~tmmGàwcis
7.                                                             I (6)l. SUVas BjdgSt Pd~ome
(&S*dk. angd CodtPoAwn&Jg>
-  moond DatoA fty)                                             (Pav-Raê)
9. Plaoranwnlian CI la ReoCfuh.. &Mv Evakdhifw                  2D. p4tcanvftbei
(Rssoeh FmWanM*W  Mwle,ltanmgod Embat1an                        (TMOSII)
1, Dépoetnunsd CiaI Redive»  mw    t bl hagg                        "tclm
- cvmmt_    _(Dzv
Gt Depetunit de la RedWCheATO&rOnmlQus(DM I>
a Dipodetenund e la Recheche - aateppnioest VeugsDRa DRZ
il. DêsenduSeNiMIsA4Ptj à laRecherche (MSAR
(Okectoe ai Reseoeh Suppon soMaim)
ia So=  ,Appti ,toCh, °
la secna Leu6l Sem  )
13.SeMs LogistiQu S                                                                         G
14. Lo__toemCen                                                                        _.
(OcU   t      eokx"o                                                                                   wcU doew*443l



MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
Implementation Schedule - Civil Works
1989           1S190           1991            1992           1993
Summary Implementatlon Schedulet
Calendrier d'Executlon Sommalre             1  2  3 | 4   1  2  3   4    1234    1 2   3   4                 1    2    3  4
Selection of Executive Architects/Selectlon
Bureau Etudes
Prequalftatbon/Concour                       .      .       A2 A9      As    AS           A
Bld Invitation/Appel dOvi&es                                e        le                    e *   *
Antananarivo/Antananaervo
H adquarters/Sl5eg                                         qu. e  ..  _
R.s.areh Bulldins/Elatlm. Recherches                                       -      J -  -
Lab Study/Etude Labo    DRZV                                 queue a __ 
ParasitologylParasitologie DRZV                                            .moi
DRA                                         .    ._._. ou _
DRFP/DRT                                                                           -
Station/Conter Lay-out Study/Etude Amenager.                          I _                  -
Houslng Study/Etude Logements
Stations/Centres                                       J
Toleary/Tanandava                                ut.       . _  .      _
Klarjavato                                            I     ---
Anay8t  :ch 4  t4r. _          l                  4
Klanjaaoa/Miadana                                mt.mi    A r*-    _
Antslrabe/Flanarantsoa                                     ton                     -       -
Mahitsy/Cala                                     Ar t... ._
Beforona/Antalaha                                 t         .        I  1
Ivoloina                                                           non t.               ;     t   |                          f 
Varant/Varlante                                               J       1        -                                               c -I  --
LEGEND
-mmomStudies/Etudes  e muDeslgn/ProJets -   Construtaon/Constructlon    *- Bld Approvat/Approbation
SA   Bld Eveluatlon/Analyse Offres
*  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~44347



-12"                                                                                                                                            <`                                      112?
MADAGASCAR                                                                                        ,    Antsirnuna
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOCATION OF REGIONAL CENTERS, STATIONS, AND SUBSTATIONS
g     CFNTFRS                                             MAUOR CROPS: 
cENrIREs                                            PRLP4CIPALES cuLtURES -N   Vodlîm orîn
*      5TA s                                         _     COFE CLOER .VAMLLA.PEPPER, CCOA                                         a            '-
STAYIM                                   CAPE, IGROEIEI- VANILE, FOLEt CACAO
SOUS STAT NS                                        S I SUCRE
CLMATIC ZONES.                                      COTnON                                            .
ZONES CL,'AA4IQL)ES,                                                                                                                                                      14OO
SOLITf, SEMARID T ARID TROC.AL                      S
SUD, rROPKAL SK                        B~~~~~~UITER BEANS
WESTt TROPICAL WMli 01E DRY SEASON         P----IS So   u CAP
OUESF. TROMCAL A SAISON SECHCE
I GHLANDE TROPICAL MO                               NOET lLwouonosTR COUNI.                 A    la  o       -> 4
IV    EAST SUIEQUATORLLL                                        DAN5TOUTLEPAr5 
CLIATIC ZONE O1IVUNARIES
LIMITsES RRZONES CLMATIQUES
`t    RALNFALL (CM PER YEAR-
PLUOSITE (CM. PAR AN)
KILOMETERS O       50       100      I
4"        MILES              50             1
~~~~~~~~~~-    `v-                 -  8
BeolonTirbihm\  <g'l<
Cri arrci                                                                                          o~~~~~~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hîbinony 
-20"                                 M,xondavo<                                                            F v "               b
ROUrES OOUDRONEES
-    ILWEAIIIER EOASS
ROUTES ACCESSIBLES
f   O   < D b  v75;;Amt  oncnpey                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN 7OUTfSAL50N
»Mnonjory                     -     RRLLROADS
Mo rmbe   ,ornqsd                        -O                                   I                                                       +   AROPORTS
i /MO nT5.              . "-, >                      W     « <           \  »;,            ELEVATIONS N N ETTES Mg    NARRALT CAPITAL
22"  :' gt .   4             4           N +ri.......AL TITUDR EN RIERES,                                                              CAPITALT D'ETAT
FARIANY <PROVIN CE CAPITALS
Ank   tt          0.::::                                                                                            . . CNEPUE  P FARITrAPN
| ~~~~~Tolioro                    e    n   nh
24"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
- -24°   ' -                           ' M      . I O . *dK-'                                                      24t      ,.>_)                                                    ,
-t-e             -                                                                                                                                                     C 4 o  ât jhte  r -à  w  lS1D 7  'v1   \w  A
bAponTE, pfi    , A                           \ .                           ,)-0 Lo ' a         rJ                     â»3E)               .           .'    A
~~~~~    *0,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~
l ~     ~      t     nr wv  Rd MA00< -E                                                     noecnt.A/ W          1 É   ,JO 



