Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17588
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2042-MAG)
March 31, 1998
Technical Agriculture Cluster II
Country Department 8
Africa Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
|World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 2042-MAG)
Currency Equivalents
Malagasy Francs (FMG) per US$
1 1989   l  1990  l  1991   l  1992  l  1993  l  1994   l  1995            1996      1997  l
1,603      1,494     1,835     1,863     1,913     3,067      4,265    4,053     5,101
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CIRAD                Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
DOveloppement
COFIRA               Steering Committee for National Research
ESSA                 Ecole Superieure des Sciences Agronomiques
FIFAMANOR            Highlands Agricultural Development Project
FOFIFA               National Center for Applied Research for Rural Development
FSR                  Farming Systems Research
GOM                  Government of Madagascar
IARC                 International Agricultural Research Center
IRRI                 International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR                International Service for National Agricultural Research
MRS                  Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique
MS                   Master of Science
NARP                 National Agricultural Research Project
NGO                  Non-Government Organization
ORSTOM               Office pour la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer
PhD                  Doctor of Philosophy
PIP                  Public Investment Program
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January I - December 31
Vice President     Callisto Madavo
Director     Michael Sarris
Sector Manager      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member      Yves Wong



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 2042-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                                                             j
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ........................................................                                      I
A. INTRODUCTION ........................................................                                                                   I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................................ 2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...................................                                                                  3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ................................., 6
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.7
F. IDA  PERFORMANCE ........................................................                                                              8
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................                                                          8
H. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME ............                             ....................8........                     ........... 8
1. FUTURE OPERATION .........................................................11
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .........................................................                                                             I
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................                                                     12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ........................................................ 12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ......................................................... 13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ........................................................ 14
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................... 14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..............                                                        ......           15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ........................................................ 18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ................................ ,18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................... 19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ...............................                                                                              19
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...............................                                                                     20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................................                                                  21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...................................................   23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ................................................... 23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ............................................................. 4
ANNEXES
Annex 1:         Borrower's Evaluation of the Project .............................................................                      25
MAPS
IBRD Map No. 21261
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 2042-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Madagascar National Agricultural
Research Project, for which Credit 2042-MAG in the amount of SDR 18.6 million (US$24.0 million
equivalent) was approved on June 15, 1989, and made effective on July 12, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997. The final disbursement is forecast to take place by
April 30, 1998. In April 1994, the project was restructured, and SDR 9.5 million (US$12.3 million
equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Yves Wong of the World Bank Madagascar Resident Mission and
Eavan O'Halloran, Agricultural Technical Cluster II of the Africa Region. It was reviewed by Joseph
Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager, Agriculture Technical Cluster II and Michael Sarris, Director,
Country Department 8.
Preparation of the ICR began after the Bank's completion mission in January 1998. The ICR is
based on the results gathered during this completion mission, on material in the project files and on
discussions with the Government of Madagascar and the beneficiaries of the project. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project (Annex 1). The
ICR was discussed with the Borrower on January 28, 1998, and the Borrower's comments were
subsequently incorporated into the report.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2042-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Agricultural development in Madagascar in the 1970s and 1980s was hampered by the absence of
a sound agricultural research base. The departure in 1974 of the large number of separate French-based
institutes, which had previously represented agricultural research in the country, had left behind a weak
national research system, which was an under-funded skeleton structure that carried out poor quality
research. In 1983, at the request of the Government of Madagascar, the International Service for
National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) critically evaluated Madagascar's agricultural research effort
and concluded that a more efficient, relevant and productive system, which was responsive to farmer
needs, was urgently needed.
2.    In June 1988, with the assistance of ISNAR under IDA financing, FOFIFA (the National Center
for Applied Research for Rural Development) research staff prepared a seven-year National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP) which was discussed in September 1988 by an IDA Pre-Appraisal Mission. In
December 1988, the National Agricultural Research Project was formulated, which constituted the first 7-
year phase of a 15-year prograrn to strengthen national agricultural research in Madagascar.
Project Objectives
3.    The project aimed at assisting the Government of Madagascar in achieving one of its major
objectives of improving the incomes of the majority of its population, including its poorest segments, by
the expansion and strengthening of its national agricultural research programs, projects and facilities.
Specifically, the project included four major components:
(a) institutional strengthening;
(b) research quality and adaptability improvement;
(c) human resource development; and
(d) rehabilitation of physical plant and equipment.
4.    The objectives supported by the project were broadly consistent with the needs of the agricultural
research services in Madagascar. Project benefits were expected from: (i) accelerated agricultural
productivity and growth; (ii) higher returns to farmers and increased employment; and (iii) increased
foreign exchange earnings. However, the project faced several risks including: (i) inadequacy of
budgetary funding levels and mechanisms; (ii) weak FOFIFA organization and management; (iii) lack of
agricultural scientists; (iv) non-adherence to priorities and balance in research programs; and (v)
inadequate relevance and adoption of research findings. To reduce these risks, the project included
specific measures, backed up by conditionality, with respect to Government funding, donor coordination,
linkage of salaries to performance, and measures to improve research/extension linkages.



Project Costs and Financing
5.    At appraisal, the project was expected to be implemented over seven years and to cost US$70.6
million, of which IDA was to finance US$24.0 million, Government US$30.5 million, other donors
US$10.4 million and FOFIFA US$5.7 million. However, both the project sco]pe and cost, and the
contributions of the Government and IDA, were over-estimated and the final total project cost (US$35.9
million) amounted to slightly over half of appraisal estimate. When the project was restructured in April
1993, the amount of US$12.3 million was canceled. At credit closing on December 31, 1997 (except for
Category 1, which was extended to April 30, 1998), the amount of US$2.8 million equivalent was still
undisbursed, but this is expected to be fully disbursed at the end of the disbursement grace period on
April 30, 1998. Donor contributions, which financed specific research programs under parallel financing
arrangements, were fully disbursed.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    From its inception, the project experienced problems. Effectiveness was delayed by seven
months until the statutes of FOFIFA were amended. Despite this delay, the project management
succeeded in launching some activities: most key positions were satisfactorily filled; the 1991 workplan
and budget were approved; and research programs were launched for rice and other crops, forestry and
farming systems. The enactment of FOFIFA's new statutes effectively protected the agency from
interference by the Tender Board. However, the project suffered from lack of counterpart funds, and
relationships were poor between the Ministry of Scientific Research and FOFIFA.
7.    The volatile political situation in the early 1990s affected project implementation, and the Bank in
early 1993 rated the project Unsatisfactory in all mandatory rating categories, except for project
management performance which was rated Satisfactory. It requested a reappraisal of the project and
recommended that disbursements be suspended unless substantial progress was achieved by June 1993.
In response, FOFIFA endeavored to fulfill all its agreements with the Bank and took the lead in preparing
the project restructuring, including consultations at all levels of the institution.
8.    A subsequent Bank mission in August 1993 agreed with FOFIFA on the extent of the
restructuring required, which included prioritization and planning of project activities to fit FOFIFA's
implementation capacity according to Public Investment Program commitments. These effectively set
limits to the recruitment of technical and research personnel and to the creation of new research stations.
Coordination of research and extension was made a conditionality of disbursement. A general reduction
in project scope was also planned, and changes reflecting Government's regionalization policy were
introduced, making the regional centers more responsive to economic and environrnental constraints of
producers, and promoting synergy between research and extension efforts and relationships with local
NGOs. The prioritization process resulted in cost savings and, as a result, an amount of SDR 9.5 million
(US$12.3 million) was canceled from the credit in April 1994.
9.    The restructuring improved project implementation significantly. Working relationships between
the Ministry of Scientific Research and FOFIFA were improved, and contacts between research and
extension staff were strengthened. The regionalization program of research centers was pursued, and
regional multi-disciplinary research teams were set up at the centers. For the first time, the Government
and donors were presented with a coherent and integrated picture of the overall research effort, which
reflected the objectives of a national research program.



iv
10.   In 1994, the first research results began to be extended to farmers, including new higher-yielding
and more adaptable varieties of rice and other crops, more efficient cultural techniques, and improved
tools and farm equipment. Integration with the extension service increased. The impact of research
outputs is continuously monitored and evaluated jointly with the extension services, and results indicate a
significant impact on production of rice, peanuts, cotton and other crops.
11.   In 1995, the project was rated highly satisfactory for development objectives and satisfactory for
implementation progress. The project achieved a much higher level of performance as the new Minister
of Scientific Research was very supportive of the project and of its staff.
12.   During 1996, however, the project continued to suffer counterpart funding problems and financial
management difficulties, but was still rated satisfactory for development objectives and for
implementation progress. Research developments under the project began to accrue and significantly
raised crop yields, increased farmer income, and reduced environmental degradation. In the north-west,
the development and release of virus-resistant rice varieties enabled farmers, who had abandoned their
lowland paddies to encroach on highland forest land to grow rice, to return to them and thereby spare
further forest degradation. A newly-released cotton variety in 1996 virtually covered the whole of the
cotton areas in the south west and northwest one year after its release, with a 30 percent increase in yield
over the previous varieties.
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.   The Government did not always cooperate with FOFIFA, and nor did it take ownership of the
project during the first few years of implementation. It did not provide adequate budgets to FOFIFA, and
the project continually suffered from lack of counterpart funds. There were poor relations between the
Government and FOFIFA, and between the Government and the Bank. For its part, the Bank can be
criticized for designing an overly-ambitious project and for not conducting a proper assessment of
FOFIFA's capacity. However, performance of the Government and the Bank improved during the life of
the project. The Government and FOFIFA took some tough and sensitive personnel decisions in the
second half of the project which helped to turn it around. The Bank performance during supervision was
satisfactory, and supervision of the project was intensified when the Madagascar Resident Mission
assumed responsibility for the project in late 1996. The Bank and FOFIFA reacted quickly in carrying
out the successful restructuring of the project.
Assessment of Outcome
14.   The overall assessment of the project's outcome must be rated as satisfactory. The project has
satisfactorily achieved its overall objectives of laying down the framework for an effective decentralized
research capacity. The objective of creating a regional network of eight research centers has been
achieved. These centers are staffed with a core of motivated young researchers who work under
satisfactory physical conditions. The institutional impact of the project is also satisfactory: FOFIFA's
organization has been rationalized, and its staff numbers trimmed and decentralized. The retrenchment of
over fifty percent of its staff has significantly reduced FOFIFA's annual recurrent budgetary needs and
made FOFIFA become more financially sustainable. The target for post-graduate training of researchers
has been fully achieved. Both female farmers and female FOFIFA staff have benefited under the project
as FOFIFA now has many female researchers, some at the highest level of management at director level.
Research program planning has been rationalized, and programs prioritized through a participatory
approach involving farmer groups and extension services. There is greater accountability of researchers



v
15.   Impact on Productivity, Growth and Farmer Income: The project has resulted in the development
and dissemination of an important array of improved crop varieties with higher yields, greater resistance
to local pests and diseases, and better adaptability to local conditions. Superior crossbreeds of cattle have
been produced. Other developments include improved cultural techniques and more efficient tools and
equipment. All these have had a significant impact on agricultural production and farmer income. The
degree of adoption of improved varieties will increase in time as farmer confidence in the new
technologies increases, and in addition, as the extension services increase their national coverage, an
increasing number of farmers will have access to these technologies. Thus, the impact of research will
increase with time.
Summary Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.   The most important finding of the report is that Government commitment is essential to the
success of any project and that, without that commitment, the project had little chance of succeeding.
This commitment is particularly valuable in periods of political turmoil. Closeness to clients is critical:
the decentralization of the research system has led to the greater participation of all stakeholders, with
improvements in the relevance and quality of research programs and adoption of research results. In the
same way, transferring supervision responsibility to the Bank's Resident Mission helped support the
project management to accelerate decision making and restructuring and hence improve project
performance. Finally, the unconventionally long implementation time-frame was entirely appropriate for
such an institution-building project. The key element in the project was the development of a critical
mass of well-trained researchers which is a time consuming process.
17.   Project sustainability is now probable because the investment phase for physical infrastructure
and equipment is virtually complete, core teams of trained researchers are in place at most of the centers,
and FOFIFA's financial situation has been significantly improved. The decentralizaltion of the research
system, the institutionalized participation of farmers and extension services, the improved delivery of new
technology through the national extension service, the good management of FOFIFA's resources, and a
deliberate policy to contract with the private sector, are sound foundations of sustainability.
18.   Government is committed to the implementation of the second phase of the Research Masterplan,
which will focus on human resource development and on further strengthening the regional capacity to
carry out high quality research. It has requested IDA support for implementation of this phase.
Experience from the first phase has shown the need for research development to be well integrated with
extension development but completion of the extension project will not take place before December 1999.
Until then, the Government has agreed that Cr. 2729-MAG, which supports the IDA-financed National
Agricultural Extension Project, will provide financing to FOFIFA to continue its operations for the next
two years.
19.   The main lessons learned from this project are:
(a) Borrower commitment and ownership are essential at all times;
(b) The responsibility for financing of agricultural research by the Government should be clearly
defined, and funding should be assured based on this;
(c) Stakeholder participation is essential for ensuring the relevance and responsiveness of
research programs to farmer needs;
(d) Decentralization of the research system is critical to its development;
(e) A long implementation period is appropriate for this type of human resource development
and institution building project;



vi
(f) The development of well-trained researchers takes time;
(g) Effective accounting and financial management systems are prerequisites of project
implementation;
(h) The national agricultural extension has not yet achieved a national coverage and is not yet
able to provide a full delivery service for research results;
(i) An effective and committed project management team combined with availability of staff at
the Resident Mission are important elements in improving project performance and impact.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 2042-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    From the 1970s to the early 1980s, Madagascar's agriculture sector, which provided employment
to 85% of the population, faced severe decline as a result of ill-conceived economic policies which
involved Government interventions in the sector. Up until 1974, the country was self-sufficient in rice,
its main staple food, but production steadily decreased thereafter to such an extent that by 1982 record
amounts of rice had to be imported. Production of other crops also dropped. Changes of Government
policies since 1983 helped to restore production to some extent as they set out to promote a free market
system and improve incentives to producers, withdraw Government services from production and
commercial activities, and concentrate resources on essential Government services, such as research and
extension and rehabilitation and maintenance of rural infrastructure.
2.    The absence of a sound agricultural research base in Madagascar affected agricultural
development. The departure in 1974 of the large number of separate French-based institutes, which had
previously represented agricultural research in the country, had left behind a weak national research
system which was an under-funded skeleton structure that carried out poor quality research. It was
characterized by: (i) a lack of a national strategy for agricultural research; (ii) low quality and poorly
coordinated research programs; (iii) a severe shortage of qualified scientists, eighty percent of whom
were based in the capital, and a surplus of low level non-scientific staff; (iv) a research organization
based on top-down, disciplinary research carried out mainly on stations; (v) poor linkages with weak
extension services; (vi) severe under-funding; and (vii) a centralized, outdated and poorly maintained
physical infrastructure.
3.    In 1983, the Government of Madagascar requested ISNAR (the International Service for National
Agricultural Research) to evaluate the national agricultural research system. The ISNAR mission
concluded that a more efficient and effective agricultural research system was urgently needed, in
addition to improvements in other agricultural services. Such a system had to be responsive to farmer
constraints and provide new technology to improve food security, increase and diversify export earnings,
and increase small farmer income. Based on ISNAR's recommendations, the internal organization of
FOFIFA (the National Center for Applied Research for Rural Development) was modified to include the
establishment of a Research and Development Department whose functions were to rationalize research
programs and strengthen linkages with extension. In June 1988, with the assistance of ISNAR under IDA
financing, FOFIFA research staff carried out its own evaluation of the research system and prepared the
first draft of a 15-year Master Plan for Agricultural Research. They subsequently prepared a first seven-
year phase of the Master Plan which was discussed with an IDA Pre-Appraisal Mission in September
1988. This phase became NARP (the National Agricultural Research Project), which was thus the first
half of a long term support program to strengthen national agricultural research in Madagascar.



2
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The project aimed at assisting the Government in achieving one of its major development
objectives of improving the incomes of the great majority of its population, which includes its poorest
segments, and thereby reducing rural poverty and income disparities. This would be achieved by
strengthening national agricultural research to develop improved technology and then apply this
technology to increase agricultural productivity. The quality of research would be iimproved and made
more relevant by the development of research staff and infrastructure, implementing demand-driven
research programs, effectively decentralizing research to the regions, and strengthening links with
extension.
S.     More specifically, the project was to:
a) focus on priority multi-disciplinary and nationally coordinated research programs with a
significant likelihood of high and early returns to investment;
b) develop technologies that contribute to increased farmer income, in particular of
smallholders, through a greater responsiveness of research to real farmer constraints;
c) increase research efficiency through an increased emphasis on on-farm research,
improvements in research quality, a reorganization of FOFIFA and decentralization of the
research system, stabilizing research funding, and improving coordination with other donor
programs;
d) strengthen linkages between research and extension ranging from problem diagnosis to the
monitoring of impacts; and
e) ensure the long-term institutional viability of FOFIFA.
6.    In support of these objectives, the project included four major components:
(a) institutional strengthening, through the provision of adequate staff and budgets, and
improvement of financial management and accounting, donor coordination, and linkages with
universities and external research organizations;
(b) research quality and adaptability improvement, through strengthening research design,
linkages with extension, monitoring and evaluation of research, and adopting an integrated
research approach;
(c) human resources development, through establishing long term staff planning, education and
training for scientific, technical and administrative staff, and providing incentives to staff to move
to the regional centers; and
(d) rehabilitation of physical plant and equipment, through rationalization of the research station
network and establishment of 8 regional research centers.
7.     Over a seven year period, the project would support nationally-coordinated research programs on
crop and animal production, forestry and fish culture, agricultural technology, agricultural mechanization,
on-farm irrigation, and farming systems research.



3
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives supported by the project were consistent with
the national goal of improving food security and reducing rural poverty by increasing farm productivity
and diversification through better agricultural technology. However, the agricultural research system was
totally ineffective at the time, and the very low technical base of agriculture was a major constraint to
agricultural development. On the other hand, the objectives of developing the agricultural research
services in Madagascar were a key element of the agricultural development strategies of both the
Government and the Bank which were developed in a collaborative way by the Government, IDA, and
other donors. Project benefits were expected from: (i) improved agricultural productivity and growth;
(ii) higher returns to farmers; and (iii) increased foreign exchange earnings. However, the project faced
several risks including: (i) inadequate budgets; (ii) weak institutional capacity of FOFIFA; (iii) resistance
of staff to change to demand-driven, on-farm research; (iv) uncertainty on recruitment of qualified staff;
(v) inappropriate research priorities and insufficient donor coordination; and (vi) inadequate relevance
and adoption of research findings. To reduce these risks, the project included specific conditionalities
with respect to Government funding, appropriate statutes for FOFIFA, rationalization of FOFIFA
staffing, provision of financial incentives to research staff and to field staff in particular, donor
coordination, and strengthening of research/extension linkages.
9.    However, FOFIFA's institutional capacity was over-estimated at appraisal, while the difficulties
of staff decentralization were under-estimated, although incentives were provided. The scope of the staff
reduction program needed was under-estimated, and no provision was made to use the credit funds to pay
for compensation. Finally, the project design over-estimated the financial scope of the project, as half of
the IDA credit was canceled when the project was restructured.
10.   Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, the project was expected to be implemented over
seven years and to cost US$70.6 million, of which IDA was to finance US$24.0 million, Government
US$30.5 million, other donors US$10.4 million and FOFIFA US$5.7 million. However, both the project
scope and cost, and the contributions of the Government and IDA, were over-estimated and the final total
project cost (US$35.9 million) amounted to slightly over half of appraisal estimate. After two and a half
years, only eight percent of the credit had been disbursed, which was due in large part to project inactivity
during the time of political unrest. When the project was restructured in August 1993, the investment
program was prioritized in line with research priorities and the implementation capacity of FOFIFA. The
reduced project scope and activities meant that US$12.3 million was canceled in April 1994. At credit
closing on December 31, 1997 (except for Category 1, which was extended to April 30, 1998), the
amount of US$2.8 million equivalent was still undisbursed, but this is expected to be fully disbursed at
the end of the disbursement grace period on April 30, 1998. Donor contributions, which financed
specific research programs under parallel financing arrangements, were fully disbursed.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   The project has satisfactorily achieved its overall objectives of laying down the framework for a
more effective, decentralized and sustainable research capacity, consistent with the objectives of the first
phase of the national research masterplan. The physical objective of creating a regional network of eight
research centers has been virtually achieved. The centers are staffed with a core of motivated young
researchers who work under conditions of adequate physical facilities and operating budgets. The
institutional impact of the project is also satisfactory: FOFIFA's organization has been rationalized, and
its staff numbers trimmed and decentralized. About 60 percent of its total staff, mainly at non-scientific
lower levels, have left under an incentive system, and a quarter of its researchers have been induced to
move to the regional centers. The staff retrenchment program has significantly reduced FOFIFA's annual
recurrent budgetary needs and made FOFIFA become more financially sustainable. Research program



4
planning has been rationalized by more thorough screening of priorities, implementation of a
participatory approach which fully involves farmer groups and extension services in problem
identification and search of solutions, and greater accountability of researchers. Significant results in the
development and adoption of improved varieties and technologies are having an increasingly important
impact in improving agricultural production and farmer income.
12.   Implementation Experience. The credit agreement was signed on September 11, 1989 but
effectiveness was delayed by seven months as the last covenant for credit effectiveness - the publication
of the statutes of FOFIFA - was not achieved until July 1990. Despite this delay, the project management
succeeded in launching some activities: most key positions were satisfactorily filled (three directors and
six heads of research departments); arrangements for hiring technical assistance and starting training in
biometrics were agreed; the Steering Committee for Agricultural Research (COFIRA) approved
FOFIFA's budget and workplan in October 1990; research programs were launched for rice and other
crops, forestry and farming systems, and programs in livestock were refined. The enactment of
FOFIFA's new statutes was very effective as the agency's decisions on procurement were no longer
subject to National Tender Board approval. This enhanced project management's accountability and
minimized the risks of price rigging. The establishment of COFIRA was one of the most innovative and
positive features of FOFIFA's new statutes.
13.   The volatile political situation in the early 1990s affected project implementation, and the Bank
supervision mission of February 1993 rated the project Unsatisfactory in all mandatory rating categories,
except project management performance which was rated Satisfactory.  It recommended that a
reappraisal of the project be undertaken and that disbursements be suspended unless substantial progress
was achieved by June 1993. FOFIFA endeavored to fulfill all its agreements with the Bank and took the
lead in preparing the project restructuring, including consultations at all levels of the institution.
14.   A subsequent Bank mission in August 1993 agreed with FOFIFA on the extent of the
restructuring required, which included prioritization and planning of project activities to fit FOFIFA's
implementation capacity based on Public Investment Program (PIP) commitments. These involved limits
to the recruitment of technical and research personnel and to the creation of new research stations.
Coordination of research and extension was made a conditionality of disbursement. A general reduction
in project scope was also planned, and changes reflecting Government's regionalization policy were
introduced, making the regional centers more responsive to economic and environmental constraints of
producers, and promoting synergy between research and extension efforts and relationships with local
NGOs. The prioritization process resulted in cost savings and, as a result, an amount of SDR 9.5 million
(US$12.3 million) was canceled from the credit in April 1994.
15.   The restructuring improved project implementation significantly. Working relationships between
the Ministry of Scientific Research and FOFIFA improved, and contacts between research and extension
staff strengthened. The regionalization program of research centers was pursued, and regional multi-
disciplinary research teams were set up in several centers. Training was carried out in rural economics,
communications, phytopathology, integrated pest management, procurement and management of research
centers. The timely procurement of computers allowed training in statistics conducted under a subsidiary
agreement by the Ecole Superieure de Sciences Agricoles (ESSA). For the first time, Government
decision makers and donors were presented with a coherent and integrated picture of the overall research
effort, which reflected the objectives of a national research program.
16.   In 1994, the first research results began to be extended to farmers, including new higher-yielding
and more adaptable varieties of rice and other crops, more efficient cultural techniques, and improved



5
tools and farm equipment. Integration with the extension service increased, and the impact of research
outputs was continuously monitored and evaluated jointly with the extension services. Results indicated
a significant impact on production of rice, peanuts, cotton and other crops.
17.   In 1995, the project was rated highly satisfactory for development objectives and satisfactory for
implementation progress. The project achieved a much higher level of performance as the new Minister
of Scientific Research was very supportive of the project and its staff.
18.   During 1996, however, the project continued to suffer counterpart funding problems and financial
management difficulties, but was still rated satisfactory for development objectives and for
implementation progress. Research developments under the project began to accrue and significantly
raised crop yields, increased farmer income, and reduced environmental degradation. Increased benefits
from improved rice varieties and cultural techniques were recorded. In the north-west, the development
and release of virus-resistant rice varieties enabled farmers, who had abandoned their lowland paddies to
encroach on highland forest land to grow rice, to return to them and thereby spare further forest
degradation. The second phase of FOFIFA's staff retrenchment program was started in 1997 and was
completed in early 1998.
19.   Institutional Strengthening. Achievement of this component's objectives is satisfactory. The
restructuring of FOFIFA's commodity departmnents into regional multi-disciplinary centers has been
completed. Staff reduction, mainly of the lower non-scientific levels, has been successful (the total staff
number is now 34 percent of that at appraisal), resulting in a leaner and more efficient structure. The
regional centers have full autonomy in research programming and implementation, and have their own
operating budgets. FOFIFA now has management and financial autonomy, and has reinforced its
management capacity and accountability.  It has developed strong links with national research
organizations of other countries, as well as with the international agricultural research centers (IARCs).
Donor coordination is much improved, although under informal arrangements due to the small number of
donors still supporting research. Despite all these improvements, the institutional strengthening process
is not complete. While the institutional framework for an effective research system has indeed been laid
down, the numbers of multi-disciplinary teams of trained researchers are not yet complete at all the
centers.
20.   Research Quality and Adaptability Improvement. Research quality significantly improved
through the adoption of the participatory approach of demand-driven research program planning and
evaluation involving regional research centers, farmers and the extension services. Thus, research
priorities now reflect more closely real farmer needs, and not mainly research staffs personal agendas,
through three main programs:  (a) agricultural intensification in high potential areas; (b) yield
stabilization of crop and animal production systems in marginal areas; and (c) agricultural diversification
into high value crops for export. The focus has also been shifted from station to on-farm research, which
is more integrated and multi-disciplinary. Scientific rigor has been reinforced by training researchers in
biometrics and improving the quality of research protocols, and accountability for results has been
established by requiring each researcher to provide appropriate performance indicators in the research
protocol and to report on them at the end of the year. The training input facilitated by the project together
with the firm support of the Director of FOFIFA led to improved skills among research and extension
staff in participative on-farm systems diagnosis.
21.   Institutional linkages between research and extension are excellent.  Through regional
committees, researchers participate with extension staff and farmers in the diagnosis of problems and in
planning and setting up field tests and demonstration plots. They also train extension services providers



6
under the monthly workshops to review agricultural technologies developed under the project and to
adapt them to local conditions for adoption by farmers. An important aspect of the cooperation is the
joint annual review of the performance and impact of their work programs.
22.   Human Resources Development. This component has substantially achieved the project's
original objectives, although it is now realized that the number of trained researchers is insufficient for
today's needs. A total of 47 researchers out of 50 planned at appraisal (94 percent) have received post-
graduate training (MS and PhD) under the project, mainly under bilateral aid arrangements. However,
FOFIFA recruitment of trained researchers has been constrained by the freeze on civil service
recruitment. Thus, the lack of a critical mass of trained researchers at two of the eight centers will
continue to be a constraint for some time. The young age of the regional researchers raises the issue of
research leadership, which is lacking at some centers and needs to be addressed by FOFIFA if it is to
become a top class institution.
23.   Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and Equipment.  This program  is virtually complete.
Resources (equipment, buildings, budgets) have been allocated in priority to the eight regional centers
and their satellite stations, as opposed to headquarters in Antananarivo. Priority was given to the
improvement of the social infrastructure (adequate housing, running and drinking water, electricity
supply) to attract researchers to stay at centers.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Outside of Government Control
24.   The political turmoil of 1991/92 had a negative impact on the project as all activities within the
country basically came to a halt and paralyzed project execution from June 1991 through January 1992.
Most of the research trials for the first season could not be harvested, and those of the second season
could not be laid out. The development of institutional and policy aspects was greatly impaired, and field
activities were suspended. This meant that in 1993, three years after Board approval, the project was still
struggling to take off. Another problem outside Government control which constrained FOFIFA's
capacity to carry out research was the shortage of agricultural scientists in the country.
Factors Under Government Control
25.   The Government did not provide full support to the project and to FOFIFA at the beginning of
the project. In 1992, the Ministry of Scientific Research (MSR) interfered with FOFIFA's draft statutes,
and conflicts between the Ministry and FOFIFA on responsibility for procurement iinterfered with the
progress of the project. All the high level officers of the Ministry who were familiar with the project
were dismissed, FOFIFA's statutes were changed unilaterally, and FOFIFA's Director was replaced
without prior consultation with IDA. FOFIFA researchers were told to engage in commercial operations,
which was contrary to the Government policy of disengagement from commercial activities. The stand-
off between MSR and FOFIFA paralyzed project implementation until the replacement of the Minister in
mid-1993. The strengthening of FOFIFA's administrative and financial management was not completed
until the project was restructured in 1994 when the agency was given autonomy for these two functions.
26.   The expansion of the new FOFIFA headquarters from 1800 sq m to 3000 sq m was out of
proportion to the country's and the agency's needs, and inconsistent with the policy of decentralization.
This building absorbed scarce financial resources that could have been more constructively used
elsewhere and exacerbated the tendency for research staff to remain in the capital rather than accept



7
assignments up-country to regional research centers and nearer to the clients.
27.   Only three out of fifteen title deeds have been issued to FOFIFA, due to delays in Government
approval and to the presence of squatters. However, processing of the remaining title deeds is well-
advanced. At first, the lack of title deeds delayed the construction of regional centers but with written
assurances from the Ministry of Agriculture on the transfer of lands, FOFIFA proceeded with the
rehabilitation and construction program.
28.    Donor coordination by the Government could have been improved. The national research
program, which was initially characterized by donor-driven agendas, did not provide the early leadership
for donor coordination. Coordination was subsequently reinforced, and there was close coordination with
USAID, which funded the development of improved rice varieties under a joint FOFIFA-IRRI
(International Rice Research Institute) program, and with French Cooperation-financed programs
(CIRAD).
29.    Counterpart Funding. Many of the project's problems stem from insufficient counterpart
funding because of over-optimistic expectations at the time of project design and appraisal, the political
upheaval in 1991 and 1992, and the ensuing economic recession. In spite of its stated commitment to
research development, the Government was not able to meet its financial obligations to provide an
adequate budget for FOFIFA. The project suffered funding delays and low budgets, as evidenced by its
PIP allocations. In 1993, the availability of counterpart funds was reviewed in the context of the PIP, and
project activities were tailored accordingly. However, up until 1997, the Government did not meet its
obligations of providing adequate funds to pay wages, arrears in social benefits and staff pensions, and
back taxes.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   Project sustainability is now probable because the investment phase (for physical infrastructure
and equipment) is virtually complete, core teams of trained researchers are in place at most of the centers,
and FOFIFA's financial situation has been significantly improved (reduced recurrent budget needs due to
its now much leaner structure, its debts have been paid, and additional revenues are collected from
research contracts with the private sector).  The decentralization of the research system, the
institutionalized participation of farmers and extension services, the improved delivery of new technology
through the national extension service, the good management of FOFIFA's resources, and a deliberate
policy to contract with the private sector, are sound foundations of sustainability.
31.   The other aspect of sustainability, based on the continued access to public funds at present levels,
is uncertain for the specific areas of agricultural research where the private sector may be willing or able
to pay. The pressure to reduce public funding levels will increase during periods of fiscal restraint, when
the public agricultural research system has to compete for scarce Government financial resources with
other sectors. For the moment, Government commitment to support of agricultural research is underlined
in its "Document Cadre de Politique Economique" agreed with the Bank and the International Monetary
Fund, but it is clear that as agriculture becomes more developed and market-oriented, the private sector
will be in a better position to pay for its own specific needs for agricultural technology (such as for high-
value export crops). Research, such as on staple foods like rice and other foodcrops, that benefits the
whole population and is less amenable to exclusion mechanisms, and that can be considered as a public
good and is unlikely to be financed privately, will probably continue to be funded by Government.
However, as to research for the private sector, FOFIFA has already made it one of its priorities and has
entered into contracts with firms for the development of new rice, mango and vanilla varieties for export.



8
A potential important source of funding for FOFIFA might be revenues from property rights for the new
varieties developed by it. However, this is an area that is still uncharted in Madagascar.
F.    IDA PERFORMANCE
32.   Bank performance was mixed.  While the appraisal mission over-estimated FOFIFA's
institutional and financial capacity, it correctly identified the main institutional and technical issues facing
the sector and the long term time-frame needed for developing an effective national agricultural research
system. The project was technically innovative and consistent with the Government strategy for the
sector, as well as with the Bank's country strategy. The Bank reacted firmly to the poor progress after
three years of project implementation by carrying out the successful restructuring of the project in 1994:
it developed an action plan with FOFIFA, reallocated funds to finance a larger share of operating costs,
and canceled half of the credit. The frequent change of Bank task manager (five times) for the project
affected continuity and hindered the smooth execution of the project. Overall, however, the Bank
performed satisfactorily during project supervision through its skills mix, and the handing over of
responsibility for project supervision to the Resident Mission in Madagascar as from late 1996 was
significant in advancing the completion of institutional reforms (staff reduction) which had been lagging
for many years, in reorienting research priorities, and in developing a performance monitoring and impact
evaluation system. The proximity of Bank technical specialists also meant that they could, on a prompt
and regular basis, provide international expertise to FOFIFA.
G.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The Borrower's performance can be rated as marginally satisfactory at the beginning of the
project but satisfactory near the end. At the beginning, the poor working relationship between the
Ministry of Scientific Research and FOFIFA and interference of the Ministry in FOFIFA management
delayed project implementation. In addition, the Borrower did not provide adequate counterpart funding
to FOFIFA and delayed the payment of staff salaries, social security charges, and taxes. Compliance
with credit covenants was unsatisfactory during the first years of project irnplementation, but
subsequently improved.
34.   FOFIFA management's performance was satisfactory, although it did not have the full support of
the Ministry of Research to implement some of the more sensitive staff reduction programs. In spite of
this, it successfully completed the main aspects of its institutional strengthening program and pressed on
with the decentralization of staff to regional centers with some success. In particular, the Government
and FOFIFA must be commended for taking some tough and sensitive personnel decisions in the second
half of the project which greatly helped to turn it around. Without the staff retrenchment program, the
sustainability of FOFIFA would have been at very great risk.
35.   The inter-ministerial Steering Committee for Research satisfactorily fulfilled its role at the
beginning of the project, but this became less important as many bilateral donors withdrew from the
subsector, leaving USAID and Swiss Cooperation as the only other donors remaining and cooperating in
the national research program.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
36.   Institution Development. The project has succeeded in establishing an effective, decentralized
national agricultural research system which is, therefore, nearer to its clients and more responsive to their



9
needs. The system is based on a network of regional centers, equipped with adequate physical facilities
and staffed with core teams of researchers.
37.   Research programming has been strengthened by adopting a bottom-up planning process, fully
involving extension services and farmers, and implementing multi-disciplinary, on-farm research
programs. The research strategy was also modified during 1997 to give priority to market-oriented
agriculture in high potential areas, including diversification towards high value crops for exports, while
maintaining yield levels in marginal areas. Genetic improvement remains the underlying thrust for yield
improvement and increasing adaptability to local conditions and resistance to pests and diseases. To
improve the quality of research programs, each researcher is now obligated to include monitorable
indicators for his research work and to monitor field impacts at farmer level together with extension staff.
38.    FOFIFA has successfully implemented its staff reduction program, mainly of its lower level staff,
as its total staff number has been reduced from 1,156 at appraisal to 393 at project completion. As a
condition of effectiveness, FOFIFA was to reduce 110 low level staff before end 1989 and another 140
staff by December 31, 1990, to bring the total staff number down to about 900. This target has been
substantially exceeded. This first action was completed with funding provided by IDA Cr. 1967-MAG
for payment of unemployment benefits and training costs for the staff laid off. Continued efforts by
FOFIFA brought the total staff to 877 in January 1997, and in early 1998 FOFIFA was able to implement
the voluntary departure and early retirement of another 484 staff (57 percent of total staff), mainly of
lower level administrative staff. Financial incentives to leave were funded under the credit supporting
this project. Benefits accruing to FOFIFA include: an improvement in the ratio of research to non-
research staff from 1:7 to 1:3, and an immediate budgetary savings of US$220,000 per year which, over 5
years including the cost of employing 46 new researchers, fully cover the cost of compensation. The staff
reduction program will also result in a reduced budgetary cost per researcher from FMG 72 million to
FMG 45 million per year.
39.   The redeployment of headquarters staff to the regional centers has also met with reasonable
success as a total of 31 researchers (40 percent of the headquarters research staff) have been redeployed.
The ratio of researchers at the regional centers as compared to those at headquarters has improved from
27:73 at appraisal to 49:51. Obviously, there are still too many researchers at headquarters, and FOFIFA
needs to continue its efforts (8 researchers are scheduled to move to the centers in 1998). Under the
center rehabilitation program, emphasis is placed on improving basic housing conditions, such as
providing access to running water and electricity, as an inducement for staff to move to field stations.
40.    FOFIFA is also developing its links and cooperation with the large private sector as a result of its
work on export-oriented higher value agriculture (cotton, vanilla, soybeans, temperate and tropical fruits,
etc.). Eight research contracts are being implemented, contributing about 20 percent to FOFIFA's total
budget.
41.   Development and Dissemination of Improved Agricultural Technology. The first results of
the project were obtained in 1992 with the release of 2 improved varieties of rice (potential yields which
were double prevailing yields).  In subsequent years, other improved varieties and technologies
developed by FOFIFA were released for adoption by farmers. Among the most notable results are rice
varieties resistant to red-yellow mottle virus released in 1994 and 1996 (which had drastically reduced
rice production in the northwest and forced farmers to open up thousands of hectares of forest areas, with
a negative impact on the environment); higher-yielding rice, cassava, cotton (89 percent adoption of
D388-8 by farmers in the southwest and northwest over 15,200 ha in 1997, with 30 percent increase in
yield over previous varieties, one year only after release of the variety in 1996), beans, and corn varieties;



10
high-vanillin vanilla varieties in 1995 (two to three times as high in vanillin as compared to present
varieties); and an improved breed of cattle (Manja Boina) for milk production in hot regions. Improved
cultural techniques, which increase yields, developed by FOFIFA include the use of young rice seedlings
(adoption by farmers amounts to as much as 40 percent in certain regions, with an increase in yields of 1
t/ha of paddy); covering seeds with a phosphate fertilizer coat for rapid seedling growth; and a rapid
multiplication method for cassava stakes. A natural insecticide developed by FOFIFA from a local tree is
replacing the use of less environmentally-friendly chemical insecticides. Positive results obtained from
the testing of vaccines against Teschen disease in pigs have now made possible the rearing of pigs, which
were decimated country-wide by that disease. Finally, ongoing variety development programs will
continue to produce increasing numbers of superior crop varieties for adoption by farmers.
42.   The new technologies developed by FOFIFA have to be transferred to farmers for adoption, and
this responsibility rests with the national agricultural extension service, which is under the Ministry of
Agriculture. The rate of adoption of FOFIFA's new technology by farmers will depend upon both the
quality and the relevance of the technology to them and the effectiveness of the extension services. The
National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP) is underway only as from October 1995, although an
agricultural extension pilot project had been implemented as from 1990. Only 9 out of the 29 agricultural
districts in the country are at present effectively covered by the extension service; this limits NAEP's
effective delivery of research results at the national level (although agents are now in place in all the
agricultural districts). Many farmers, therefore, do not yet have full access to FOFIFA's technologies,
but their numbers will decrease as NEAP intensifies its activities country-wide. Linkages between
research and extension are excellent at all levels.
43.   Impact on Beneficiaries. The project impact is measured by the effect of the technologies
developed by FOFIFA on agricultural production and farm income, and integrates the efforts of both
research and extension services, as these cannot be dissociated from  each other, to bring these
technologies to farm level and promote their adoption by farmers. Estimates of production increases of
rice and other crops due to research results were first obtained in 1993. In 1997, the increased paddy
adoption was estimated at 150,000 tons, or about 6 percent of the national paddy production. Farmers are
also adopting improved varieties of other crops. The degree of adoption will increase in time as farmer
confidence in the new technologies increases, and in addition, as the extension services increase their
national coverage, an increasing number of farmers will have access to these technologies. Thus, the
impact of research will increase with time.
44.   While there is no project activity specifically designed to promote women, they are an integral
part of the farming community and benefit to the same extent as men from the improved technologies
generated under the project. However, vegetables are cultivated more by women, and the improved
varieties developed by FOFIFA would benefit them more specifically. More adaptable and higher-
yielding vegetable and other crops have a direct impact in enriching and diversifying diets. Female
FOFIFA staff have benefited under the project as FOFIFA now has many female researchers, some at the
highest level of management at director level.
45.   Environmental Impact. The environmental impact of the project is both direct and indirect.
The development of rice varieties resistant to red-yellow mottle virus had a direct positive impact on the
environment as it enabled farmers to return to their paddy fields which they had abandoned to encroach
on large areas of virgin forest lands. Farmers are also adopting the natural insecticide (Melia azederach)
developed by FOFIFA to control bugs on rice and which substitutes economically for environmentally
more harmful chemical insecticides. The development of sustainable farming systems is aimed at
reducing environmental degradation, and agricultural intensification in the lowlands may lead to reduced



11
pressure to cultivate on the environmentally fragile hillsides.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
46.   The project supported only the first 7-year phase of the 15-year Master Plan for the development
of agricultural research. Government is committed to the implementation of the second phase, which will
focus on human resource development, on firming up participatory approaches for research programming
and execution, and on further strengthening the regional capacity to carry out high quality research.
Experience from the implementation of the first phase has shown the need for research development to be
well integrated with extension development. The Government has requested IDA support for the second
phase: this support will be provided under the proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Program. Until
such a project is implemented, the Government has agreed that Cr. 2729-MAG, which supports the IDA-
financed National Agricultural Extension Project, will provide financing to FOFIFA to continue its
operations for the next two years.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
47.   The main lessons learned from the project include:
(a) Borrower commitment and ownership are essential at all times;
(b) The responsibility for financing of agricultural research by the Government should be clearly
defined, and funding should be assured based on this.;
(c) Stakeholder participation is essential for ensuring the relevance and responsiveness of
research programs to farmer needs;
(d) Decentralization of the research system is critical to its development;
(e) A long implementation period is appropriate for this type of human resource development
and institution building project;
(f) The development of well-trained researchers takes time;
(g) Effective accounting and financial management systems are prerequisites of project
implementation;
(h) The national agricultural extension has not yet achieved a national coverage and is not yet
able to provide a full delivery service for research results;
(i) An effective and committed project management team combined with availability of staff at
the Resident Mission are important elements in improving project performance and impact.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2042-MAG)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial      Partial        Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                  _      x
Sector policies                       X                        _-
Financial objectives                                 X_
Institutional development             X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                    X                       _
Gender issues                         X
Other social objectives                                               X
Environmental objectives                             X
Public sector management                             X                 _
Private sector development                                           -X
Other (specify)                                                        _-
B. Project sustainability           Likely        Unlikely        Uncertain
x        ____-
C. Bank performance                 Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                       X
Preparation Assistance                               X
Appraisal                                                             X          _
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower performance             Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory                                   _
Preparation                                  _       X_
Implementation                                       X
Covenant compliance                                 -X
E. Assessment of outcome                             X



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title              Purpose                           Year of   Status
approval                   l
Preceding operations                                                                   l
Agricultural Institutions  Improvement of agricultural     1982       Completed
Technical Assistance Project  institutions, sector financial resource
(Cr. 1249-MAG)            management, agricultural sector
planning, and strengthening of policy
and economic analysis
Second Agricultural      Improving the management of       1986       Completed
Institutions Development    FOFIFA. Funding an Agricultural
Project (Cr. 1709-MAG)    Extension Pilot Program
Agricultural Credit Project   Provision of agricultural credit  1987  Completed
(Cr. 1804-MAG)
Irrigation Rehabilitation  Testing of new system of irrigation    1985  Completed
Project (Cr. 1589-MAG)   management and maintenance
Forests Management and    Conservation of Madagascar's     1988       Completed
Protection Project (Cr.   natural resource base and bio-
1878-MAG)                diversity
Agricultural Sector       Liberalization of rice marketing and   1986  Completed
Adjustment Credit (Cr.    elimination of the monopsony of
1691-MAG)                state rice marketing agencies
Public Sector Adjustment    Liberalization of agricultural export   1988  Completed
Credit (Cr. 1941 -MAG)   trade and restructuring of sector
public enterprises
Following operations
Environment Project (Cr.    Support to the first phase of National  1990  Completed
2125-MAG)                Environmental Action Plan
Livestock Sector Project  Support to milk and beef production   1991  Ongoing
(Cr. 2243-MAG)                                                                         l
Second Irrigation        Rehabilitation of irrigation schemes   1994  Ongoing
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.   and transfer of maintenance
2644-MAG)                responsibility to water user groups
National Agricultural     Establishment of national agricultural  1995  Ongoing
Extension Project (Cr. 2729-  extension service
MAG)                                                                                   l
Second Environment       Support to second phase of National   1996   Ongoing
Program (Cr. N009-MAG)   Environmental Action Plan                   I



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
D)ate
Steps on Project Cycle                Date Planned          actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  _                           December 20, 1988
Preparation/Pre-appraisal            _                                    January 1989
Appraisal                                        January 1989             February 1989
Negotiations                                      April 1989              April 25, 1989
Board presentation                                 June 1989              June 15, 1989
Signing                                         September 1989         September 11, 1989
Effectiveness                                   December 1989             July 12, 1990
Mid-term review                                 September 1993            October 1993
Project completion                            December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997
Credit closing                                December 31, 1997        December 31, 1997*
* Except for Category 1, which will close on April 30, 1998
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Estimated        Actual Cumulative        Actual as a % of
Cumulative          Disbursements              estimate
Fiscal Year             Disbursements         (US$ million)
(US$ million)
1990                  1.4                   0.2                    14
1991                  3.8                   0.7                     18
1992                  7.2                   1.5                     21
1993                 10.6                   2.3                     22
1994                 13.9                   3.3                     24
1995                 18.0                   5.4                    30
1996                 21.6                   7.0                     32
1997                 24.0                   8.6                     36
1998                 24.0                  13.4                    100*
Cancellation                                US$ 12.3 million in
April 1994
Final Disbursement                           April 30, 1998
* this equals 100% of revised cumulative disbursement of available credit of US$11.7 million.



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators                  Estimated                   Completed
Institutional Development                                                                             l
Directorate of Support Services to Research               I                            I
established                                                                                           l
FOFIFA's financial management and accounting              I                            l
system strengthened                                                                                  l
Operational Manual prepared                               I                            I
Research Management
Biometry Unit established                                 1                            I
Programming and Monitoring and Evaluation                 I                            1
Units established
New research programming cycle implemented                 I                           lIl
Regional research teams established                       8                            8
Regional research programs prepared                       8                            8_l
National Strategy for Research prepared                   I                            lIl
Human Resources Development
Human resource development plan completed                 IlI
Lower level personnel reduced (number)                   240                          724
(initial total staff: 1,156)  (final total staff no: 393)
Total number of researchers                               99                          114
Researchers deployed in field stations                    27                          56
Researchers transferred from headquarters to field                                    31
stations                                                                    (40 % of HQ researchers)
Percent researchers at:
Headquarters                                            73                          51
Regional centers                                       27                           49
Foreign researchers at FOFIFA                             19                           9
Training:
- short term (staff months)                            60                           32
- long term (no. of degrees obtained)                  50                           47
MS and DEA                                                                      34
PhD                                                                             13
Research Infrastructure
No. of regional centers established                       8                            8
No. of substations established                            10                           10
Title deeds obtained                                      15                           3



16
Release of                  Type of Technology                       Number and Characteristics
Important New
Technology
1992          .  Improved rice varieties         *  3 for upland rice in highland areas (yield: 3t/ha)
1993          *  Improved cotton varieties       *  I for north/south west regions (yield: It/ha)
1994          *  Improved rice varieties for     *  I tolerant to red-yellow mottle virus (yield: 4t/ha);
north-west region                  I short cycle upland rice (yield: 3.5 t/ha);
I high-yielding (yield: 4.5 t/ha)
*  Improved maize varieties for    *  3 higher-yielding (yields: 2.6-3.5 t/ha)
southwest, midwest and
lowlands
*  Improved milk breed for hot    *  Manja Boina (1,600 litres per lactation)
regions
1995          *  Improved rice varieties for     *  1 long grain, photoinsensitive var. (yield: 4.5 tlha);
mid-east, midwest and              10 rainfed varieties (yield: 3.5 t/ha)
highland regions
.  Improved vegetable varieties    *  3 high-yielding vouandzu varieties (2 t/ha);
I bean variety resistant to rust (2 t/ha)
.  Improved vanilla varieties     *  2 high vanillin content (4% against 2% actual) and
disease-resistant
*  Strategic treatment of         *  reduces infestation
parasites in cattle
.  Improved eucalyptus            *  higher-yielding
coppicing
*  Improved acacia species        *  higher-yielding
*  Management of pine             *  higher-yielding
plantations
1996          *  Improved rice varieties for     *  4 higher-yielding (yield: 4.5-5.0 t/ha)
highlands under good water
control
*  Improved rice varieties for    *  3 more tolerant to red yellow mottle virus
northwest
*  Natural insecticide            *  Melia azedarach developed for farm use to control
rice bugs
*  Improved cotton varieties      *  I high-yielding and good technological
characteristics (1.2 t/ha)
.  Improved cassava varieties     .  2 higher-yielding for general release
*  Improved plantain varieties    *  3 higher-yielding
*  Improved maize varieties       *  I higher-yielding
*  Improved techniques of fish    *  for royal carp
feeding and transport of
fingerlings
*  Development of adapted farm    *  Ploughs, puddlers, weeders for rice cultivation
tools
1997          *  Improved rice varieties         *  5 high-yielding (yield: 4-5 t/ha),
I tolerant to high salinity (yield: 4 t/ha);
2 tolerant to submerged conditions (yield: 4 t/ha)
.  Improved cultural techniques   *  direct seeding for marginal areas



17
Impact                                                  Production Increase (tons)
1994                                       Paddy:   8,400 tons
Peanuts: 2,680
1995                                       Paddy:  30,105 tons
Peanuts: 3,800
Maize:  1,995
Fish:      12
1996                                       Paddy: 150,000 tons
Peanuts: 21,800
Cassava:  5,490
Fish:       34
1997                                       Paddy:   not available
Peanuts:    "
Cassava: 16,900 tons
Maize:   8,100  "
Cotton:   4,080  "
Fish:       37



18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not Applicable
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                 Purpose as defined in      Status       Impact of Study
SAR/redefined
1. Reorganization of Kianjasoa    Dismantling of         Completed         Station activities
Experiment Station                production activities                    reorganized to focus on
research work
2. Rehabilitation of irrigation system    Permit year-round rice    Completed  Irrigation system
at Lac Alaotra Rice Experiment    cultivation                              operational
Station
3. Topographical study of Mahela  For preparation of title    Completed    Title deed issued
Substation                        deed
4. Topographical studies of CALA,    Physical masterplan  Completed        Physical facilities of
Kianjasoa, and Ampandrianomby     preparation                              stations improved
5. Drilling studies at Toliara Station    Develop own water  Completed     Installation completed
supply
6. In-depth study of the research and   Strengthen laboratory  Completed   Three-year development
service functions of FOFIFA       systems and agricultural                 programs prepared
technology research
7. Physical development plans of the   Develop regional centers  Completed  Physical development
centers and stations in the south-west,                                    completed
mid-west, and north-west
8. Study FOFIFA's administrative and  Strengthen procedures    Completed   Improved system in place
financial management
9. Update national research program    Reset research priorities,  Completed  Relevance of research
and balance national                     programs to user needs
with local priorities                    improved
1O. Review of technical specifications  Upgrade laboratory  Completed      Laboratory operational
for diagnosis laboratory for animal
research
11. Study FOFIFA's central        Adapt management to    Completed         More operational
management                        organizational structure
12. Study rehabilitation of       Improve services       Completed         More operational
Research/Development laboratories
13. Review FOFIFA's technical,   Improve sustainability    Completed       Staff reduction program
financial and economic viability                                           implemented



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate                 Actual/latest
(US$ million)                     estimate
(US$ million)
Component                  Local costs    Foreign costs      Total            Total
Investment Costs              12.41           13.24          25.65            23.93
Recurrent Costs              26.55            4.86           31.42            11.94
Baseline Cost                 38.96           18.10          57.07
Physical Contingencies         1.48    _       1.32           2.80
Price Contingencies            7.55           3.20           10.75
TOTAL Project Costs          48.09           22.62           70.62            35.87
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Source                       Total                          Total
IDA                                    24.00                          13.35
Co-financiers (donors)                 10.44                           7.23
FOFIFA                                  5.65                           1.89
Government                             30.53                          13.40
Total                                  70.62                          35.87



20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
As in most Bank Group-assisted agricultural research projects, no attempt was made to quantify the
economic rate of return ex ante due to: (i) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of
research findings and the timing and extent of adoption of research findings by farmers; and (ii)
difficulties in separating potential benefits of research and complementary investments such as extension
and training.



21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section      Covenant  Present   Original    Revised        Description of covenant                    Comments
type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
DCA         2.02                    C                                   Establishment of Special Account           None
3.01 (b)    2           C                                  Make proceeds available to FOFIFA          None
3.01 (c)    2           C                                  Make proceeds available to ESSA            None
3.02        3           C                                  Adherence to IDA procurement practices     None
3.03        3           C                                  Follow procurement guidelines in General   None
Conditions
3.04        5           C                                  Establishment of the Steering Committee    None
3.04 (i)    5           CP                                 Appointment of three scientists of international  None
repute in Steering Committee
3.04 (ii)   5           C           11/93        10/93     Date of mid-term review                    None
3.04 (iii)  5           C                                  Operating procedures of Steering Committee    None
satisfactory to IDA
3.04 (iv)   5           C                                  Coordination and approval of cofinancing by    None
Steering Committee
3.05        5           C                                  Establishment of appropriate research funding   None
mechanism to replace stabilizing funds
3.06        5           C                                  ESSA to recruit a professor of biometrics  None
4.01 (a)-(c)   5        C                                  Maintain adequate records and accounts and  None
have accounts audited annually
5.01 (d)    5           C                                  Amendment of Statues of FOFIFA             None
6.01 (d)    5           C                                  Reduction of number of lower level staff in a    None
manner acceptable to IDA
Project     3.01 (b)     5           C                                  Appropriate staff for all managerial positions    None
3.01 (c)     5          C                                  Recruit a consultant for two years as director of  None
administration and finance
3.03        5           C                                  Adequate insurance                         None
3.04         5          C                                  A national research program coordinator for  None
each operational research program
3.05        5           C                                  Date of submission by FOFIFA of revised    None
procurement procedures
3.06 (a) (i)   5        CP                                 FOFIFA to provide additional benefits to field   Not in compliance
staff
3.06 (a) (ii)   5       NC                                 FOFIFA to award a maximum of 5 cash prizes   Not in compliance
to reward scientific work
3.06 (b)     5          NC                                 FOFIFA to prepare proposals for additional  Not in compliance



22
benefits and cash prizes by January 11, 1996
4.02                  lC                                    Date of submission of regional research   None
I I           extension committees
Keys:
C = Complied with        CD = Complied, but with delays       CP = Complied with partially        NC = Not complied with
Covenant Types:
I -   Accounts/audits                       6 -   Environmental covenants                   11 -   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
2 -   Financial performance/revenue         7 -   Involuntary resettlement                  12 -   Sectoral or cross-sectoral
generation from beneficiaries                                                                policy/regulatory/institutional action
3 -   Flow and utilization of project funds  8 -   Indigenous people                        13 -   Other
4 -   Counterpart funding                   9 -   Monitoring, review and reporting
5 -   Management aspects of the project or    10 -   Project implementation not covered by
executing agency                           categories 1-9



23
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title               Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No major lack of compliance was observed
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle                                          Actual
Weeks                  US$
Preparation to appraisal                               29.1                  72.8
Appraisal                                              37.4                  90.4
Negotiations through Board approval                    2.7                   7.0
Supervision                                           188.4                 592.7
Completion                                             4.8                   14.1
TOTAL                                                 262.4                 777.0



24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month/  Number   Days   Specialized staff skills  Implement  Development      Types of
cycle               year      of        in        represented         ation      Objec tives     problems
persons   field                           Status
Preparation       03/88    2          08      A, OA                 -           -
Pre-Appraisal     09/88    3          05      A, AE, OA             -           -
Appraisal         01/89    8          15      5A, FA, FE, LE        -           -
Board approval    07/89    4          10      2A, FA, IT            -           -
through
effectiveness
Supervision I     11/89    2          10      FA, A                 2           1             P, LC
Supervision 2     03/90    2          12      A, OA                2            1             P, FM
Supervision 3     10/90    4          10      2A, FA, OA            2          2              P, FM
Supervision 4     04/91    3          12      A, FA, OA             2          2              FM, C, I
Supervision 5     03/92    2          16      A, AE                 3          3              All
Supervision 6     02/93    1          10      A                     3          3              All
Supervision 7 -   08/93    5          15      3A, FA, OA            3          3              FM, LC, I
Restructuring
Supervision 8     12/93    4          10      2A, FA, OA            3          2              FM, LC, I
Supervision 9     04/94    3          12     A, FA, OA             2           2              FM, LC
Supervision 10    11/94    3         07       A, FA, OA             S          HS
Supervision 11    04/95    3          10      A, ES, OA             S          HS        =_-
Supervision 12    11/95    2         08       A, AE                 S          S              LC
Supervision 13    06/96    2          15      A, ES                S           S              FM
Supervision 14    11/96    2         31       2A                    S          S              FM, I
Supervision 15    05/97    1          10      A                    S           S              FM, I
Completion        01/98    I         07       A                     S          S              I
Staff Skills                       Types of Problems
A  - Agriculturist                    P  - Procurement
AE - Agricultural Economist           LC - Legal Covenant
OA - Operational Analyst              FM - Financial Management
FA - Financial Analyst                C  - Country related problems
FE - Forestry Expert                  I  - Institutional
LE - Livestock Expert
ES - Extension Specialist
IT - Information Technologist



25
Appendix I
Borrower's Comments
PROJET NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE (PNRA)
Credit 2042-MAG - Contribution a l'elaboration du rapport d'achevement du projet
1. Introduction
Le Projet National de Recherche Agricole (PNRA), objet de I'accord de credit et de l'accord de projet
2042-MAG, signes le 11 septembre 1989, a ete cloture le 31 Decembre 1997. Comme prevu pour les
projets finances par l'IDA, un rapport d'achevement a e  prepare des le mois de Decembre 1997. Le
FOFIFA a e  associe dtroitement a la preparation de ce rapport d'achevement, en particulier lors de la
seance de travail en date du 28 janvier au cours de laquelle ont e  revus et discutes le rapport de la
mission de preparation du rapport d'achevement.
Outre les commentaires foumis A cette mission, la presente evaluation a e  faite A titre de contribution au
document final.
2. Objectifs du projet et resultats obtenus
Les objectifs initiaux du projet ont ete:
* mise en ceuvre des programmes de recherche pluridisciplinaire coordonnee au niveau national;
*  developper des technologies devant contribuer a l'augmentation des revenus des producteurs, en
particulier les petits paysans, A travers l'adequation des recherches aux contraintes reelles des
paysans;
*  augmenter l'efficience des recherches A travers le developpement des recherches hors des stations,
I'amelioration de la qualite des recherches, la reorganisation du FOFIFA et la decentralisation du
systeme de recherche, la stabilisation du financement et l'amelioration de la coordination des
donateurs;
*  renforcer les liens entre recherche et vulgarisation A travers les recherche en milieu reel et les
demonstrations menees en collaboration avec les services de vulgarisation
*  et assurer la viabilit6 institutionnelle du FOFIFA A long terme.
Bien que ces objectifs initiaux ont et6 gardes dans leur globalite, les consequences des evenements de
1991-1993, ont amene a restructurer le projet sur la base de deux reorientations majeures:
*  Ia decentralisation de la programmation et de l'execution de la recherche A partir des priorites
regionales;
*  la regionalisation de la recherche par l'op6rationnalisation des equipes regionales pluridisciplinaires.
2. Resultats obtenus
D'une maniere globale, le projet a atteint ses objectifs, tant institutionnel que technique et economique, et
cela de maniere satisfaisante malgre les retards enormes au demarrage. Outre les aspects evoqu6s avec



26
la mission de pr6paration du rapport d'ach6vementl, les acquis fondamentaux du PNRA concernent:
La regionalisation de la recherche:
Malgr6 les reticences et les difficult6s enregistrees au depart, la r6gionalisation de la recherche agricole
est maintenant une realite, cela grace a:
* 1'existence au niveau des huit (8) Centres r6gionaux de recherche d'infrastructures de recherche
fonctionnelles (bureaux, laboratoires de terrain, equipements, materiels informatiques, etc...);
* une masse critique de chercheurs suite au redeploiement des 31 chercheurs a partir d'Antananarivo; et
* la mise en (euvre de programmes de recherche definis A partir des priorites regionales.
La mise en euvre de nouvelles approches:
Contrairement aux demarches tres descendantes et lineaires pratiquees dans les annees 80, de nouvelles
approches sont maintenant adoptees et intemalisees au sein de FOFIFA, favorisant ainsi le rapprochement
avec les utilisateurs et la diffusion des resultats. Ils s'agissent entre autres de:
* I'adoption de l'approche participative et pluridisciplinaire.
*  l'institutionnalisation des analyses d'impact au niveau de tous les programmes;
* le developpement des experimentations et tests en milieu reel en etroite collaboration avec la
vulgarisation et les paysans; et
* enfin le d6veloppement du partenariat avec le secteur prive et associatif.
L'Itaboration des strategies et des priorites de recherche:
Le changement du contexte macro-economique et l'6volution de la situation socio-economique au debut
des annees 90 ayant amen6 des modifications sur la configuration des problematiques de developpement
agricole et rural, le Plan Directeur de la Recherche Agricole (la reference premiere pour l'execution du
projet) a dGe &re actualise (1996). Avant la cl6ture du projet, 1'exercice de planification a ete continue et a
abouti A la finalisation actuelle de:
* Plans Strategiques de Recherche;
- assortis des Plans Operationnels definissant les programmes de recherche pour 1998-2002.
Concemant la priorisation des recherches, il faudrait mentionner les decisions arretees et appliquees en
matiere de redefinition des priorites et qui portent sur la mise au point de technologies visant A:
* intensifier I'agriculture dans les zones a hautes potentialites;
* maintenir les rendements dans les zones marginales, y compris ceux des systemes d'e1evage extensif;
* diversifier les filieres de production vers des cultures A haute valeur destinee a 1'exportation.
La reorganisation du dispositif de recherche et la rationnalisation des effectifs:
La regionalisation de la recherche evoquee auparavant et la recherche d'une viabilite du FOFIFA avaient
amen6 A redimensionner l'ensemble du dispositif du FOFIFA, A revoir son organisation et A renforcer la
formation de son personnel. Ainsi, parmi les acquis majeurs dans ce domaine, on peut citer:
* Ia reduction des effectifs non chercheurs de pres de 480 agents qui ont et soit mis A la retraite
anticip6e, soit redeployes vers d'autres secteurs d'activite, ramenant ainsi le ratio chercheur/non
chercheur de 1/7 a 1/3;
* Ia formation dipl6mante d'une cinquantaine de chercheurs environ, pour leur conferer le niveau de
DEA ou Master's (33) etlou Doctorat ou PhD (13).
1 Commentaires fournis lors de la seance en date du 28 Janvier 1998



27
La valorisation et la diffusion des resultats:
Durant les quatre derniere anndes du projet, un accent particulier a dte mis sur le transfert des
technologies, c'est-A-dire, la diffusion des rdsultats de recherche aupres des utilisateurs et leur exploitation
dans le cadre des systemes de production.  Cet aspect a d'ailleurs permis le renforcement et
l'intensification des liens entre recherche et vulgarisation, car si vers la fin des annees 80, les
vulgarisateurs avaient peu de nouvelles technologies disponibles A offrir aux producteurs, actuellement
une gamme assez variee de solutions techniques sont A leur disposition.
Ainsi, ont ete liberees entre 1992 et 1997 (avec assurance de fourniture des semences de pre-base et/ou de
base pour les secteurs s'occupant de la production de semences), diverses varietes plus performantes
adaptees aux differentes conditions etlou contraintes de plusieurs especes: riz, mais, coton, vanille,
haricot, manioc, vouandzou, cafe, etc.... En matiere d'elevage, deux nouvelles races bovines, dont une
laitiere specialement adaptee aux zones chaudes permettant de developper la production laitiere de ces
regions jusque la marginalisees, ont ete diffus6es. Diverses techniques culturales, dont celle permettant
l'economie d'engrais mineraux et celle relative au traitement phytosanitaire, ont dgalement dte
vulgarisees.
Enfin, il faut inclure dans cette partie "valorisation et diffusion des resultats" le developpement de la
"communication en matiere de recherche agricole" avec la parution reguliere de la revue trimestrielle
"KAROKA" et des autres supports type fiches techniques et autres brochures de vulgarisation.
Le renforcement institutionnel:
Le premier element A mentionner concernant cet aspect porte sur la mise en place de mecanisme
permettant la validation des actions de recherche, notamment celles se rapportant a la mise en auvre des
nouvelles approches, la definition des priorites de recherche, la valorisation des resultats ainsi que le
renforcement des liens recherche-vulgarisation mentionnees plus haut: A cet egard, les reunions de
campagne r6gionales, les visites commentees (field-days) et les restitutions periodiques des resultats ont
montre leur efficacite et leur utilite.
Sur le plan inteme, la mise en ceuvre du systeme de programmation et de suivi-evaluation des recherches
fait aussi partie des acquis non negligeables, bien que l'operationnalisation du systeme reste A etre rod6e
et A parfaire actuellement. II en est de meme de l'informatisation du suivi budgetaire et comptable qui a
ete durant longtemps sous-employee et dont l'exploitation est en cours de revision pour tenir compte de la
decentralisation des gestions suite A l'autonomisation des centres regionaux apres la regionalisation. En
matiere de renforcement de la capacite institutionnelle du FOFIFA, de nombreuses avancdes ont ete
realisees (e.g.: la releve des chercheurs expatries au niveau de nombreux programmes, participation aux
recherches en reseau au niveau regional, etc...).
3. Analyse sur les facteurs ayant affecte le projet
II n'est plus necessaire de rappeler les impacts des evenements de 1991-1992 sur le deroulement du
projet.  Neanmoins, cette experience avait montre d'une part, l'importance de I'autonomie de
fonctionnement de ['agence d'execution, et d'autre part, le risque encouru pour un bon achevement d'un
long projet (7 ans) dans un contexte socio-politique en perpetuel changement.
Outre ces aspects globaux, la contrainte majeure rencontree se rapporte aux respects des engagements
pris dans l'Accord de credit, en particulier le niveau de contre-partie et les appuis pour la realisation des
mesures d'accompagnement definis au demarrage du projet (ex.: obtention des titres fonciers, postes
budgetaires pour le recrutement de chercheurs, solutions pour le paiement des taxes et droits de douane,



28
etc...).
Sur un autre plan, il faudra souligner que:
* Ia lenteur et la lourdeur des procedures administratives nationales n'ont pas toujours permis A I'agence
d'ex6cution d'op6rer avec toute la c6lerite voulue;
* et du c6te de la Banque, la rigueur de certaines procedures -malgre les quelques assouplissements dejA
faits - ne permet pas de faire face A temps aux problemes qui se posent.
4. "Performance de l'IDA"
Le FOFIFA a toujours trouve appui et comprehension aupres des differents "task-managers" qui ont suivi
le projet. Leur changement frequent l'a neanmoins quelque peu gene.
Vers la fin du projet, il a enormement apprecie la designation d'un charge de projet resident sur place.
Cette decision a beaucoup contribue A acc6lerer la r6solution des problemes ou du moins A faciliter les
echanges de point de vue et la comprehension mutuelle des problemes entre le bailleur, 1'emprunteur et
l'agence d'execution. Ce qui nt eait pas toujours possible malgre l'existence de moyens de communication
type messagerie electronique ou autre. Sans cette disposition, la finalisation du projet aurait d'ailleurs ete
des plus difficile.
Enfin sur ce point, le FOFIFA a apprecie la compr6hension dont, suite A ses requetes, l'IDA a fait preuve
pour accepter dans des delais raisonnables la modification de certaines dispositions qui s'imposaient dans
l'accord de credit.
Un demier aspect positif A signaler porte sur l'effectivite du co-financement du projet qui traduit bien le
souci de coordonner les appuis A la recherche (participation de l'USAID, les Cooperations bilaterales
francaise et allemande). La mise en cruvre de ce co-financement gagnerait cependant A etre harmonis6e
davantage, notamment A travers un fonctionnement mieux organise du Comite de Financement de la
Recherche Agricole cree A cet effet.
5. "Performance de l'Emprunteur"
L'Etat malgache: Malgre ses problWmes et obligations, I'Etat a aid6 de son mieux le FOFIFA en lui
accordant certaines derogations, par exemple le benefice de l'achat symbolique pour regler les problemes
d'obtention des titres fonciers.
Du fait de son statut, le FOFIFA n'a cependant pu obtenir la detaxe pour les importations qu'il a fait dans
le cadre du projet, et ce n'est que vers la fin du projet qu'une solution a ete trouvee. Dans le meme esprit,
il faut rappeler que les fonds alloues au titre de la contre-partie n'ont pas toujours ete en rapport aux
allocations du credit IDA.
Enfin, I'insuffisance du credit reserve aux paiements des frais de personnel et aux charges de
fonctionnement des structures a handicape le FOFIFA durant de nombreuses annees. Sur ce plan,
I'impact de la rationalisation des ef-.ectifs avec 1'effort deploye par le Ministere de la Recherche
Scientifique et celui du Budget et Finances pour integrer dans le Budget general une partie des chercheurs
devrait A l'avenir rendre plus soutenable les charges recurrentes du FOFIFA.
L 'agence d'execution du projet: le FOFIFA: Le FOFIFA, qui a herite d'une longue tradition de recherche
tres sectorisee (filiere et discipline), a dfi se depenser pour faire admettre et internaliser dans le cadre du



29
PNRA:
* I'approche regionale et pluridisciplinaire;
* Ia budgetisation par programme;
* la rationalisation des effectifs avec la reorganisation des dispositifs de recherche;
* et l'adoption des mesures d'impacts (obligation de resultats) en compl6ments des criteres scientifiques
habituels pour evaluer les programmes.
Les acquis actuels sont certes importants, neanmoins, avec la regionalisation effectuee, un grand ddfi
reste A faire au niveau de l'autonomisation totale sur le plan du fonctionnement des centres regionaux et
de leur gestion administrative et financiere.
6. Soutenabilite future et lesons a tirer
En guise de conclusion, on peut dire que la dimension et l'organisation du FOFIFA apres le projet PNRA
sont en rapport avec les fonctions normalement devolues A une institution de recherche agricole qui se
veut avoir un mandat national. Les mecanismes mis en place pour tenir compte de l'ensemble du Systeme
National de Recherche Agricole (SNRA) renforcent ces perspectives, notamment pour capitaliser les
acquis de tous les intervenants du systeme pour eviter les duplications d'actions, mais aussi pour pouvoir
repondre A toutes les sollicitations que FOFIFA seul ne peut assumer.
Cet aspect devra dans le futur proche faire l objet d'une formalisation de la "coordination des actions de
recherche" pour aboutir A une meilleure synergie et pour eviter la balkanisation des interventions. Le r6le
et les initiatives de la nouvelle direction de recherche agronomique et zootechnique du Ministere de la
recherche scientifique dans ce domaine serait des plus attendus.
Le corollaire du point precedent se rapporte a la redynamisation du fonctionnement du Comite de
Financement de la Recherche Agricole qui ne devrait pas se cantonner uniquement au niveau des revues
des allocations de fonds pour la recherche mais, veiller aussi A la coherence des financements avec les
priorites des recherches pour le developpement rural. A ce titre, la mise en place et l'operationalisation
du "Fonds de la Recherche Agricole", qui aurait dfi etre terminee durant le projet, devrait etre finalis6e
dans le court terme pour assurer la perennisation du soutien A la recherche, telle que prevue initialement.
Enfin, comme il est evoque plus haut, les futurs projets ou programmes d'appui du type PNRA ne devrait
pas etre definis sur un pas de temps trop long du fait de leur sensibilite aux conjonctures vecues par le
pays.
Fevrier 1998.



42'                                       44'                                        4L6                                        48'                                       50
-1 22
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                       Antsiranana
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOCATION OF REGIONAL CENTERS, STATIONS, AND SUBSTATIONS
C ENTERS                                               MAJOR CROPS                                               NAs 8
CENTERS                                                PR/NCIPALES CULTURES.
a   TATIONIS                                               COFFEE, CLOVES. -ANSLA, PEPPER COCOA                    AI,dooi                            >      .Vhio
-      STA ONS                                      L _        CAFE, GIROF  VANIULE. POITR. CACAO                            ny
SUBSTAT IONS                                7r      ]  SU GAR
TOUT SEASIONS                                 :.X.SUCRE
CLIMATIC ZONES:                                   .II OTTON
ZONES CLE.AITfQUES                           T   71-  SA                                                          I                                                                 14'
SOUTH SEMIARID TO ARID TROPICAL             LLt   SITAL/
WEST TROPICAL WITH ONE DRr SEASON          |            0PI  UA CAP
OAETr TROPICAL A SAISON SECLF
HIGFtANOS. TROPKAL MONTANE                                                                                       / /            ASrlS.                T 
UPES PERR5 NROPICAL UAL ETIPS                        NATE 51CR AIID CATTE ARE DESTRIATUT       An R a             /
IV     EAST SUBEOAATORUA                                             "1 ,SSOIRTPSA
EST SVREOUAEORIAL                                           UAN-FATA IFE PATSAnalh
LUAIIES DES ZONES CLINATIOUES
RUINFALL IC.. FEB TEARI
PLUVIOSITE (CM PR AN)                      -a_ojan   P4.                                       r           ;K  o
Mahajanga                      OIP5K                2M                       S
KILOMETERS 0         55       1        5 50     200
9w .- S                                           5 @ a o                                srr
MILESsalmb o                                                      -0  1 60>>                       5 I,t    gX
16'                                                                               -                                                          '                               '                     16-
, e ] ,7                   a.Aclowwircte- Fenoonvo-AtBinonoRo
-18                               MRIamFIFRTURU                      (D          'RI +t                             '                                                                             58'-
tntsoTiaWAR                 " 4                                   rom Toamas
nSER  andkiy          AN
_   ,                    '  '            La nran o o                                                                         Voaibinany           ii         I
BRIa TiFibihin..O
-20'                                                                                                                                                                                               20-
/            NOSE AC}nRT iI _-y Vr,_ R           PAVI ROADS
Iorombt ,, #,L  ;- sZ v >atl , ELEVATIROUTERS NLAtONUAC
ALL I-PLARR BOATS
ROUTES ACCESTR1FS
Tfn~ooono  OOCEIJOFY            ... -. . RINSIOUT SAI
/   Fianopon~~~~~~~~.-                           annlr
M22O.                                                                                                                                 D l   fC_K  l R  U TIASE EN NETRET  (  CAPISALE DRFAT
I`---  ra /K)FO                                    11<  TAT                     CNEUIEA UT  RIPAERE5
, a                                                                                                                                A RPOIFTSIV  SoFIPeTS
UCEVAIIONS IN  T.1      INTANARIOTLS FOAI,SURI
-22f ALTITUDE El :_                                                                                                                     LIM TE A ES  E   AT
\ro4eora ~                                                                          ' '1 bf-Xrl Farafangano
>161  I                             \.>   ~~~~~~~TANZANIA
Toliar<~tD_gXio agmrn  _
SIR. I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      As             g- -                                                   CM3O
-24 '                                                                                v       X       h                            24         C7
ZIMBABWE)                                A
A~~~~~~~~~ 0~~~~~~~A
........... f T/- taord E.ns .........    AmpDnhhz                            RU        TF;b.
AFRICA'
:       42'l     5>3''""'44                                                             46L                                       48'  ||   U._ A   



