Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2042 MAG
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 11, 1989
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  11,  1989,  between  DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC   OF   MADAGASCAR   (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by Centre
National   de   Recherche   Appliquee   au   Developpement   Rural
(hereinafter "FOFIFA") with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make available to FOFIFA
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from additional donors
(hereinafter   "Cofinanciers")   loans   or   grants  (hereinafter
"Cofinancing") to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
Page  2
conditions to  be  set  forth  in  agreements  to  be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and FOFIFA;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  last  sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and FOFIFA of even  date  herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "ESSA Subsidiary Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  ESSA pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time;
     (c)  "FOFIFA" means the National  Center for Applied Research
on  Rural  Development,   an   etablissement  public  a  caractere
industriel et commercial,  established  pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No.74-184, dated June 10, 1974;
     (d)  "Statutes" means the  statuts  of  FOFIFA, as defined by
the Decree No. 74-184 of June  10,  1974, the Decree No. 83-423 of
December 3, 1984, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (e)  "FY" means FOFIFA's  fiscal  year,  which coincides with
the calendar year;
     (f)  "ESSA"  means   the   Ecole   Superieure   des  Sciences
Agronomiques;
     (g)  "Steering Committee"  means  the  Steering Committee for
Agricultural Research Financing to  be established pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "MPARA" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform;
     (j)  "MPAEF"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry; and
     (k)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters  dated May 24, 1989 and May 26,
1989 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  eighteen  million  six  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year  shall  be  applied  from  the  next  date  in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1,
commencing  October  1,  1999,  and  ending  April  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
Page  4
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause FOFIFA  to  perform  in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement  all the obligations of FOFIFA
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or  appropriate  to  enable FOFIFA to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
allocated and withdrawn  from  Categories  (1)  through (5) of the
table set forth in  paragraph  1  to  Schedule 1 to this Agreement
available to FOFIFA as a grant.
     (c)  For the purposes of carrying  out Part F of the Project,
the Borrower shall make  the  proceeds  of the Credit allocated to
Categories (6) through (9) of  the  table set forth in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to ESSA as a grant under
a subsidiary  agreement  (the  ESSA  Subsidiary  Agreement)  to be
entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  ESSA  under  terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the ESSA
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive the ESSA
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
Page  5
respect of Parts A through E  of  the Project shall be carried out
by FOFIFA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. At all  times  during  execution of the Project
the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:
          (i)  all positions, which shall include three scientists
               of  international   repute   with   experience  and
               qualifications acceptable  to  the  Association, of
               the Steering Committee shall be filled;
         (ii)  the Steering Committee  shall  carry out a mid-term
               review of the Project  not  later than November 30,
               1993;
        (iii)  the Steering Committee  shall operate in accordance
               with   operating   procedures    which   shall   be
               satisfactory to the Association;
        (iv)   Cofinancing obtained  by  the  Borrower  and FOFIFA
               from Cofinanciers shall be coordinated and approved
               by the Steering Committee; and
          (v)  other agencies financing  agricultural research not
               carried out by  FOFIFA  shall  be invited to attend
               the  meetings   of   the   Steering   Committee  as
               observers.
     Section 3.05. Upon dissolution of the stabilization funds for
export crops, the Borrower  shall prepare a proposal, satisfactory
to the Association, for  the  substitution of funding for agricul-
tural research previously  obtained  by  FOFIFA from such stabili-
zation funds, and the  Borrower  shall promptly implement such new
funding mechanism.
     Section 3.06. The  Borrower  shall  cause  ESSA  to recruit a
professor of  biometrics  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Section  II  of  Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement  no  later  than
January 1, 1990.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower  shall cause ESSA to maintain
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part F of the Project.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  cause  ESSA  to  have   the  records  and  accounts
               referred to in  paragraph  (a)  of this Section and
Page  6
               have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraphs (b) (i)  of  this  Section and those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish, and shall  cause  ESSA  to furnish, to the
               Association as soon as  available,  but in any case
               not later than  six  months  after  the end of each
               year the report of such audits by said auditors, of
               such scope and  in  such  detail as the Association
               shall  have   reasonably   requested,  including  a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish,  and  cause   ESSA   to  furnish,  to  the
               Association such other  information concerning said
               records and accounts and  the  audit thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  FOFIFA  shall  have  failed   to   perform  any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  ESSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ESSA Subsidiary Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make it improbable that FOFIFA will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The  Statutes  shall   have   been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of FOFIFA  to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FOFIFA or ESSA or for the suspension of their operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  event  specified  in   paragraph   (a)  or  (b)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (d)  or  (e)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Page  7
     (a)  the ESSA Subsidiary Agreement  has been signed on behalf
of the Borrower and ESSA;
     (b)  the Statutes have been amended in a manner acceptable to
the Association  providing  for  a  new  organization structure, a
redefinition of the responsibilities of the Borrower's Commissaire
du Gouvernement and a definition  of  the  role of the new general
accounting service.
     (c)  the Borrower  has:  (i)  nominated  the  chairman of the
Steering Committee,  employed  three  scientists  of international
repute in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule
3  to  this  Agreement;  (ii)  defined  the  responsibilities  and
operating  procedures  of  the  Steering  Committee,  in  a manner
acceptable to the Association;  (iii) informed all Cofinanciers of
such  responsibilities  and  procedures;   and  (iv)  invited  all
Cofinanciers  to  participate  in  the  meetings  of  the Steering
Committee through a duly authorized representative;
     (d)  FOFIFA has reduced its number  of lower level staff in a
manner acceptable to the Association; and
     (e)  the Association has  received from independent auditors,
acceptable to the  Association,  a  certification  of: (i) accept-
ability  of  accounting  policy;  (ii)  the  adequacy  of FOFIFA's
revised accounting  and  internal  control  system;  and (iii) all
measures  necessary  to  verify   physically  or  by  third  party
confirmation all balance  sheet  items  (receivables and payables)
and  to  value  those   balance   sheet   items  correctly  as  of
December 31, 1989, have been carried out.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized  or  ratified  by  FOFIFA, and is legally
binding upon FOFIFA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible at the
time for finance is  designated  as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances et du Budget
          (101) Antananarivo
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                  Telex:
              MINFIN                        22489
              Antananarivo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  8
          Cable address:                  Telex:
              INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                             By /s/ Jean Rene Tsiangalara
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The  table  below  set  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
FOFIFA:
(1)  Works                       3,870,000         90%
(2)  Vehicles and                4,650,000         100%
     Equipment
(3)  Consultants'                1,820,000         100%
     services
(4)  Training                    1,550,000         100%
(5)  Operating Cost              3,480,000         100%
ESSA:
(6)  Works                          40,000         90%
(7)  Equipment                     220,000         100%
(8)  Consultants'                  260,000         100%
     services
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Page  9
     Category               SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(9)  Operating cost                310,000         100%
     for biometry
     training
(10) Refunding of                  580,000         Amount due
     Project Prepara-                              pursuant to
     tion Advance                                  Section 2.02
                                                   (c) of this
                                                   Agreement
(11) Unallocated                 1,820,000
          TOTAL                 18,600,000
2.   For the purposes of  this  Schedule the term "operating cost"
means: (i) the items  the  Association  accepted to finance in the
context of the review of  the  annual  work program of FOFIFA; and
(ii) supplies and third party services of ESSA related to biometry
training.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made, or  to  be  made,  for expenditures to be
financed  out  of  the   proceeds   of  the  Credit  allocated  to
Categories (2) through (5) unless: (i) the annual work program for
the respective  FY  of  FOFIFA  submitted  to  the  Association in
accordance with the provisions of  paragraph  7 of the Schedule to
the  Project  Agreement   has   been   judged  acceptable  to  the
Association; and (ii) the Borrower's budget for the following year
provides for an adequate  allocation  to meet the Borrower's share
of financing of any such annual work program;
     (c)  payments made, or  to  be  made,  for expenditures to be
financed  out  of  the   proceeds   of  the  Credit  allocated  to
Category  (1)  unless  the  Association  has  been  furnished with
evidence satisfactory  to  the  Association  that:  (i) FOFIFA has
ceased operations at  sites  other  than  those  referred to under
Part A of the Project; and (ii) the land title has been issued for
the respective site referred to  in  Part  A of the Project in the
name of FOFIFA or the  institution of the Borrower responsible for
agricultural research;
     (d)  payments made, or  to  be  made,  for expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories
(6) through (9) unless FOFIFA  and  ESSA have signed an agreement,
acceptable to the Association, specifying the training programs to
be carried out  under  Part  F  of  the  Project; such programs to
include course contents and a time schedule.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to strengthen national
agricultural research and make it more responsive to the needs and
constraints of producers in Madagascar.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Priority Research Programs
     Carrying out  of  nationally  coordinated, multi-disciplinary
Page  10
research  programs,  on-  and   off-station,  on  crop  production
(including rice, maize,  cassava,  groundnuts, cotton, sugar cane,
coffee, vanilla  and  pepper),  animal  production (including milk
production  and  beef-,  mutton-,   pork-,  poultry-  and  rabbit-
production),  forestry   and   fisheries   (including  fuel  wood,
industrial wood,  natural  forests,  soil  conservation and inland
fisheries),   agricultural   technology   (including  post-harvest
technology,  agricultural  mechanization,  and  on-farm irrigation
efficiency) and farming  system  research.  These programs will be
carried out at  FOFIFA's  headquarters  and  central facilities in
Antananarivo,  the  research  centers  of  Mahitsy,  Lac  Alaotra,
Kianjasoa, Fianarantsoa, Tulear,  Miadana,  Ivoloina and Antalaha,
the stations of  Antsirabe,  Bealanana,  Kianjavato and Moramanga,
and the sub-stations of Beforona, Manankazo, Tanandava, Bezaha and
Marovoay.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of FOFIFA
1.   Strengthening  of   FOFIFA's   research  management,  station
management, and  administrative  and  financial management through
provision of staff training, and equipment.
2.   Improvement  of   FOFIFA's   linkages   with  other  research
organizations through attendance of research staff in national and
international seminars,  workshops  and  scientific congresses and
strengthening of information resource management through provision
of scientific publications.
3.   Improvement  of  FOFIFA's  capacity  for  donor  coordination
through the Steering Committee.
4.   Strengthening  of  FOFIFA's  research  programming,  priority
setting capacity, and  monitoring  and evaluation function through
the introduction of  a  research  data resource management system,
training and equipment.
Part C:   Improvement   of    FOFIFA's    Research   Quality   and
          Adaptability
1.   Improvement  of  research  design  and  biometrical  analysis
through  the  provision  of  computer  hardware  and  software and
training.
2.   Integrating animal  production,  soil  conservation and agro-
forestry research into farming  systems research and strengthening
of research capabilities on  economics of agricultural production,
produce  marketing,  human  resources,   and  the  evaluation  and
application of new technologies through provision of training.
3.   Improvement  of  research   extension   linkages  and  farmer
constraints  diagnosis  capability  through  increase  of  on-farm
research and training of extension staff.
4.   Introduction of  an  internal  and  external research program
evaluation system.
Part D:   FOFIFA's Human Resource Development
1.   Improvement of personnel  management and recruitment policies
and procedures through training.
2.   Provision  of   post-graduate   education   and  training  of
scientific, technical and administrative staff.
Part E:   Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and Equipment of FOFIFA
1.   Construction  and  rehabilitation   of  housing  (outside  of
Antananarivo), operational buildings, and related facilities, land
improvement, and rehabilitation  of  access  roads, and irrigation
and drainage systems.
2.   Provision  of   office   furniture   and  equipment,  housing
Page  11
furniture   and   equipment,   irrigation   equipment,  laboratory
equipment, vehicles,  including  tractors, agricultural equipment,
micro computers and publishing equipment.
Part F:   Support to ESSA
1.   Training of existing and future  research staff of FOFIFA and
strengthening of training  capability  in  biometry, data analysis
and research  design  through  provision  of  micro computers, and
software.
2.   Construction of training facilities  at  the  site of ESSA in
Antananarivo.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$250,000 and goods estimated to  cost  less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance  with  procedures   satisfactory  to  the  Association,
provided that:
     (a)  registration of bidders  in  the  Borrower's Registry of
Commerce shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
     (b)  no procurement shall be  made  on  the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of
all bids;
     (c)  bids shall be opened  in  public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives shall be allowed to be present; and
     (d)  no special preference shall be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.
2.   Works estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $50,000 or less,
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less, and
Page  12
special equipment including scientific  equipment, may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association, except for equipment available only
from a sole source, which may be contracted directly from any such
source  after  prior  approval   of   any  such  contract  by  the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000  or  more and with respect to each
contract  for  equipment  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order  to  assist  FOFIFA  and  ESSA  in  carrying out the
Project,  consultants  shall  be  employed  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
Page  13
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b) (i)   For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
        (ii)   Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special  Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
               shall have requested and  as  shall have been shown
               by said documents and  other  evidence to have been
               made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special commitment  entered  into  by the Association,
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Page  14
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
withdrawn  amount  of  the   Credit   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for  subsequent  withdrawal  or for cancellation in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
