Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2042 MAG
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
              CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE APPLIQUEE
                    POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
                     Dated September 11, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  11,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and CENTRE NATIONAL DE
RECHERCHE APPLIQUEE AU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL (FOFIFA).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Madagascar  (the
Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent  to  eighteen  million  six  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000),  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development  Credit  Agreement, but only on condition
that  FOFIFA  agree  to  undertake  such  obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FOFIFA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will  be made available to FOFIFA
Page  2
on  the  terms  and  conditions   set  forth  in  said  subsidiary
agreement; and
     WHEREAS  FOFIFA,  in   consideration   of  the  Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  (a)  FOFIFA  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts A through E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
scientific,  agricultural  and  engineering  practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Association and FOFIFA shall
otherwise agree, FOFIFA shall carry  out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set  forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  FOFIFA  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Parts A through E of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) FOFIFA shall,  at  the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with  the  Association  with regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters  relating  to the purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  FOFIFA shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by FOFIFA of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FOFIFA
     Section 3.01. (a) FOFIFA  shall  carry  on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial,   scientific   and   technical   practices   under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this  Section,  FOFIFA  shall  keep  the  positions  of scientific
director,  director  of  research  support  services,  director of
administration and finance, head  of  the personnel management and
human resources development unit,  head  of  the biometry and data
analysis unit, head of  the  technical  support services unit, and
head of the general  accounting  unit filled with individuals with
adequate qualifications and experience.
     (c)  Not later than August 1, 1989, FOFIFA shall employ for a
period of at  least  two  years  a  director of administration and
finance  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 3.02. FOFIFA shall at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate practices.
     Section  3.03.  FOFIFA  shall  take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. At all  times  during execution of the Project,
FOFIFA shall have appointed  a  qualified and experienced national
research  program  coordinator   for   each  operational  research
program;  such  national  research   program  coordinators  to  be
nominated by the research department heads.
     Section 3.05. Not  later  than  March  31, 1990, FOFIFA shall
submit  to  the  Association  for  approval  a  proposal  for  new
procurement  procedures   and   shall   promptly   implement  such
procedures thereafter.
     Section 3.06.  (a)  During  execution  of  the Project FOFIFA
shall  provide:  (i)  housing  and  additional  benefits  (medical
expenditures, education benefits  for  children) to compensate for
additional  expenditures  incurred  by  staff  members  living and
working at remote research  stations;  and  (ii) annually, no more
than five cash prizes to  reward individual scientists or teams of
scientists for outstanding scientific works.
     (b)  By  January  1,  1990,   FOFIFA   shall  submit  to  the
Association a proposal for  the  implementation procedures for the
undertakings under paragraph (a) of this Section acceptable to the
Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) FOFIFA  shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  FOFIFA shall:
         (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
        (ii)   furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
       (iii)   furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. By June  1,  1990,  FOFIFA shall: (i) submit to
the Association for  comment  draft  terms  of  reference, for the
operation  of  staffing   proposals   and   a  timetable  for  the
establishment of an internal audit and budget control unit and its
staffing; and (ii)  promptly,  thereafter  establish such internal
audit and budget control unit.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association  and  of  FOFIFA  thereunder  shall  terminate  on the
earlier of the following two dates:
         (i)   the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
        (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified in para-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify FOFIFA of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                       Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For FOFIFA:
          Centre National de Recherche Appliquee pour
Page  5
             le Developpement Rural
          B.P. 1690
          (101) Antananarivo
          Madagascar
                                               Telex:
                                                  22 539 URSTD
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                          CENTRE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHE
                            APPLIQUEE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
                          By /s/ Jean Rene Tsiangalara
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
Research Extension Linkage
1.   During execution of the Project FOFIFA shall establish closer
links between research  and  extension  staff and between research
staff and  farmers  involved  in  the  on-farm  research of FOFIFA
through:
         (i)   preparation of research  protocols for each on-farm
               research  trial  specifying  the  procedures  to be
               followed  to  obtain   farmers'   and  local  field
               extension staff  participation  in  research design
               and objectives;
        (ii)   review  and  approval  of   all  test  surveys  and
               questionnaires  for  diagnostic  surveys  by  local
               field extension staff;
       (iii)   establishment of  regional  research extension com-
               mittees  composed  of  FOFIFA  research  staff  and
               extension staff of MPARA,  MPAEF and other agencies
               to discuss research results and objectives; and
        (iv)   the requirement for research staff to reserve about
               20% of  total  working  hours  for  the training of
               extension staff.
Human Resources Development Plan
2.   FOFIFA shall prepare  and  furnish  to the Steering Committee
and the  Association  for  review  and  comment  a human resources
development plan  in  three  modules,  according  to the following
time-schedule:
Page  6
         (i)   for  administration  and  accounting  services,  by
               December 31, 1989;
        (ii)   for research support  services,  by  April 1, 1990;
               and
       (iii)   for research departments and remaining services, by
               August 31, 1990.
3.   By June 1,  1990,  FOFIFA  shall  prepare  and furnish to the
Association and the Steering  Committee  for review and comment, a
proposal for a new personnel policy and, thereafter, take adequate
measures for its implementation.
Research Equipment/Agricultural Technology
4.   By December 31, 1989, FOFIFA shall prepare:
         (i)   a study on  the  research  and service functions of
               FOFIFA's    laboratories,    including   laboratory
               equipment requirements;
        (ii)   equipment   profiles   and   equipment  maintenance
               schedules for each of FOFIFA's research station;
5.   By June 30, 1990, FOFIFA shall prepare:
         (i)   analysis  of  the  orientation  and  priorities for
               research on agricultural technology; and
        (ii)   a  detailed  three-year   program  on  agricultural
               technology.
Annual Work Programs of FOFIFA
6.   Prior to submission of  the  annual  work program to FOFIFA's
board of directors and not later than November 1, during each year
of execution of the Project FOFIFA shall submit to the Association
and all members of the  Steering  Committee for review and comment
the work program  for  the  next  FY;  each  such  work program to
include the research programs, procurement and training schedules,
external  program  review   schedule,   schedule  for  land  title
issuance, a budget  proposal  (broken  down into separate chapters
for overhead, investment  and  research  programs) and analyzed by
source of financing, including any  Cofinancing and a proposal for
the operating cost items to be financed by the Association.
7.   Not later than December 31,  during each year of execution of
the Project,  FOFIFA  shall  submit  to  the  Association  and all
members of  the  Steering  Committee  the  annual  work program of
FOFIFA for the next FY as approved by its board of directors.
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   By June 30, 1990, FOFIFA shall prepare for review and comment
by the Steering  Committee  and  the  Association  a detailed work
program for monitoring and evaluating of research.
9.   By September  1,  1990,  FOFIFA's  monitoring  and evaluation
system shall be fully operational.
