Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
i; } > j't' jj: ! 4 '                               ReportNo. 10152
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOM-BIA
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2464-CO)
DECEMBER 9, 1991
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performoance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Rate During Year of:
1984   US$1 - 100.8 Col$
1985   US$1 - 142.3 Col$
1986   US$1 - 194.3 Col$
1987   US$1 - 242.6 Col$
1988   US$1 - 299.2 Col$
1989   US$1 - 375.1 Col$
1990   US$1 - 502.3 Col$
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR     -    Central Bank of Colombia
CDT    -    Term Certificate of Deposit
CF     -    Private Development Bank
CFP    -    Public Small Scale Enterlrise Development Bank
DFC    -    Development Finance Company
DTF    -    Average 90-day Time Deposit Rate
FFI    =    Industrial Finance Fund
PCR    -    Project Completion Report
SAR    -    Staff Appraisal Report
SSI    -    Small and Medium Scale Industries
SSI3        Third Small Scale Industry Project
SSI4        Fourth Small Scale Industry Project
SMES   -    Fifth Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
SW          Staff-weeks
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL UJSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Dirootor-Gonoral
Operaions Evaluation
December 9, 1991
NEMORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia - Fourth
Small Scale Industry Project (Loan 2464-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Fourth Small Scale Industry Project (Loan
2464-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attacbment
ThS decumnt m a rmb4ebd dsdhbutea =A ma be ud by Icpkta o*b  tIn d  fpoaace of t&ek oelI dis.
Its cottldDa no ot eiwis. be d _cha without Wold Bank authorftioa.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMSIA
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2464-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No,
PREFACE .. ............................................... 
EVALUATCON SUMHARY ....................... 9*99** **99*4 *** 999999 9Al
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM TilE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..............1
1.1  Project Identity .............                                   1
1.2 Barkground                                                        1
1.3  Project Objectives and Desription..cription...........           2
1.4  Project Design and Or      gan      lzation                      3
1.5  Project Implementation.......................... . .......      5
1.6  Project Results and Sun       tainabll4ty                        7
1.7  Bank and CFP ...... ..... ..                                    13
1.8  Conclusions....                                                 15
Table 1.1  Profile of All Subloansb.......                           17
Table 1.2 Profile of Subloan Sample Used in Ex Post
Evaluation ....... v ..............................     21
Table 1.3  Key Performance Indicators of CFP.P...........            23
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM CFP'S PERSPECTIVE.................          25
2.1  S    y..                ..              ..                      25
2.2  Application of Loan Proceeds.o ce......... e      ds..........   25
2.3  Action Programo.......                                          25
2.4  Evaluation of Performance............................           28
PART III -STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........................             29
Table 1:   Related Bank Loans ...                                    29
Table 2:   Project Timetable         ............... ...             29
Table 3:   Estimated and Actual Disbursements.......*.....           30
Table 4:   Project Costs and Financing.....................          31
Table 5:   Project Result..s...............  ...............         32
Table 6:   Status of Loan Covenants........venant.s......            33
Table 7:   Use of Bank Resourceso.................                   35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRO.JECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2464-CO)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Small Scale
Industry Project (SSI4) in Colombia for which Loan 2464-CO of US$40.0 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on July 10, 1984. US$38.2 million was
disbursed by thi original closing date of December 31, 1988 and the loan
account closed in August 1989 with total loan disbursements reaching US$38.7
million.   US$6.1 million had been repaid as at February 28, 1991 by the
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), the only financial intermediary for the
Project, through the Borrower, the Colombian Central Bark (Banco de la
Republica, or BR).
The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division of
Country Department III of the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The CFP has
submitted its own assessment  of the Project through BR, which has been
translated from Spanish to English by the Bank.  Excerpts of its report, which
exclude only factual data found elsewhere in the PCR, is presented as Part II
of this Report.
The PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in the LAC
Information Center, the Staff Appraisal Report, reports produced by CFP, a
report o a consultant engaged by the Bank whose selection and terms of
reference were agreed upon with BR, correspondence with the Bank, and staff
Supervision Reports.



- ill -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2464. C0)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.       The Fourth Small Scale Industry Project (SSI4) was prepared in 1983
following four years of marginal growth in Colombia's industrial output and of
declining exports.   The average performance of SSIs'/ over this period was
generally comparable to overall trends and they accounted for about two fifths
of the industr.a6al labor force and produced nearly one fourth of the manufac-
turing value added. The Bank had made three previous loans totaling US$52.5
million to the Central Bank of Colombia (BR), which on-lent the funds to the
Government's special SSI lending institution established in 1967, the
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFM). These loans supported a total of about
2,300 SSI investments and institutional improvements in CFP. Though CFP had
made progress in its own development, it continued to suffer particularly from
erratic growth, high portfolio arrears, high administrative costs and low
return on equity (paras. 1-4).
2.       The Project aimed to accelerate employment creation and value added
by SSIs in Colombia, mainly by increasing the availability of term credit and
technical assistance to SSI enterprises. Its specific objectives were to:
(a)   provide the SSI subsector with an adequate amouat of medium-term
investment credit;
(b)   help to strengthen the quality and delivery of technical
assistance services to SSIs;
(c)   strengthen the institutional, technical and operating capabilities of
CFP, in particular the regional offices; and
(d)   assist the Government to design and coordinate policies affecting SSI
development.
Other purposes of Bank intervention mentioned were to support the recently
adopted system of "market-related" onlending interest rates by CFP to SSIs and
to provide financing in the absence of alternative sources of long-term funds
for CFP. The :redit component of the Project was supported by US$39.5 million
of the US$40.0 million Pank loan. The remainder was to finance a portion of
an estimated US$1.1 million in technical assistance to support an Action
XI Notwithstanding the Project's title, small and medium scale industries
were included in SSI4 and were defined as firms with total assets not
exceeding US$750,000 equivalent.



- iv -
Program designed to strengthen the institutional and organizational structure
of CFP (paras. 5-7)
Imilementation and Results
3.       Loan commitments and disbursements for subprojects went substantially
according to appraisal estimates.   This was facilitated in particular by
generally favorable macroeconomic management leading inter alia to significant
aggregate demand in the economy, the well-established institutional capability
of CFP to reach SSIs, and the relatively streamlined mechanism for subloan
commitments and disbursements of the Bank's loan (para. 15).
4.       The Project had a measurable effect on the availability of credit to
Colombia's smaller business market. The loan financed 2,211 subprojects and
increased loan volume by about 129% in real terms over the previous project.
Real effective interest rates for fixed asset financing averaged 3.7-5.72 per
annum (depending upon business location) and more than 902 of the subloan
commitment volume provided repayment of 4 or more years. Significant progress
in interest rate reform was made toward the end of the Project as Project and
directed credit subloan rates were fully linked to the variable deposit rate
on commercial 90-day deposits (the DTF) and set at DTF + 1 percentage point to
SSIs (paras. 21-22).
5.       About 95% of the subprojects (85% by loan volume) were undertaken by
enterprises defined in Colombia as "small" (under 50 employees). Over half of
loan commitments were to industrial sectors with moderate to high average labor
intensity, with subprojects concentrated most heavily among firms operating in
agro-industry (24.5%), metal products and machinery (21.7%) and textiles and
clothing (18.4Z).   A large share of the loan volumie went to SSIs outside
Colombia's three principal cities, reflecting the substantially greater
geographical dispersion of SSIs across Colombia than for industry overall.
Support for new enterprises exceeded expectation (25% actual vs. 152 estimated)
which, though evidence is not available to determine how many of such
investments were by new entrepreneurs, very probably served to help build and
further develop such human skills in the economy. Those subprojects supporting
export promotion were very few (2%), reconfirming much evidence which shows
that access to capital is necessary but not sufficient to overcome adverse
trade and industrial policies and an absence of support programs (para. 23).
6.       An ex post evaluation of a sample of 22 subprojects gives the
impression thaL there was a wide variety of performance with respect to the
frequency of design modifications, implementation delays, and the longer run
impact on enterprise efficiency and income. Where information was available,
installed capacity increases were estimated at between 45-100% for about one-
half of the sample; re-estimated IRRs were 12-45% for about half of the
investments and negative for the remainder, and the employment generated
resulted in a growth in total enterprise employment of about 22Z. However,
uniform information was frequently not available and sales were considered by
interviewers to be frequently substantially understated, understating the
revised IRRs and making these performance indicators not very reliable
(paras. 24-28).



- v -
7.       For the most part, the programs and studies included in CFP's Action
Plan proceeded satisfactorily throughout the project implementation period.
Monitoring and management of regional offices was improved with better trained
personnel and more specific performance programs for each office regarding
lending, supervision, portfolio management and technical assistance.   This
"institutional strengthening" was expected to manifest itself mainly in higher
portfolio growth, better portfolio quality and lower unit costs. By the end
of the implementation period in 1988, however, the net effect was between
marginally positive to substantially negative in these areas, yielding no
material progress   toward the objective  of CFP becoming an autonomous,
financially self-sustaining institution to serve SSIs. CFP's annual lending
in real terms virtually stagnated over 1984-88 (0.6% average per year). Though
CFP's administrative costs in terms of average total assets showed improvement
over 1984-88, this did not improve its already low after-tax profitability due
mainly to the effects of increasing arrears. In addition, it did not reduce
its high dependence on the Government to replenish its capital base and on
domestic directed credit and external credit lines (paras. 31-39).
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.       The Project's design appears to have been well understood and accepted
by those primarily concerned, the CFP and BR.  This was due undoubtedly to
experience acquired from the substantial number of previous DFC projects
involving both entities as well as to the considerable Colombian and Bank staff
time invested prior to Project start-up.  While Project objectives included
support for SSI technical assistance and broad public policy changes. No such
significant measures were identified as taken by the Government or under the
Project itself during project implementation.  Project design and resources
focused almost exclusively on narrower financial sector issues.   Intensive
attention was given to increasing the portion of the subloan interest rate to
SSIs which was variable. This was a relatively new concept for such credit in
Colombia and was justifiably the most important and innovative measure to be
taken at that time. The Project also focused heavily on CFP's institutional
development and was motivated by the Government's success through CFP in
increasing term lending to SSIs with a satisfactory economic impact, the
gradual development of CFP's lending and supervision capabilities, and the need
to reduce the unit cost of CFP lending (paras. 8-11).
9.       Prolect design did not, however, adequately address the issue of the
sustainability of the CFP as a financial institution.   CFP's profitability
ree(rd, which did not enable it to maintain the real value of its equity, and
its growing dependence on Bank resources were recognized during Project
appraisal.    However,  no  effective mechanism  to bring about  fundamental
institutional change was incorporated in the Project given its overriding
objective of providing finance to SSIs.  The result was that while a long-
lasting impact was achieved under many SSI investments, the Project did not
increase the country's institutional ability to sustain financial intermedia-
tion to support such investments. In addition, the Project did not substan-
tially deal with the main market failures in SSI lending, which perhaps both
the Borrower and the Bank became more sensitive to later in the 1980s: the
absence of financial margins for SSIs lending at least equivalent to the
opportunity cost of not lending to large scale clients; the need for credit
access rather than interest rate subsidies through the involvement of a larger
segment of the financial sector in SSI lending; and the negative effects on



- vi -
access, credit processing time and cost created by highly restrictive directed
credit regulations. A subsequent SSI project (SME5) and the Government's
financial sector reform prepared in consultation with the Bank are modifying
the policy framework in these areas. This project is incorporating SME lending
programs into a multitude of more diversified financial institutions and
initial indications are that they are responding well and increasing SSI credit
access. Further restructuring or privatization may, however, be required to
achieve sustainable CFP operations (paras. 12-14 and paras. 47-51).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2464-CO)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1 Project Identity
Project Name:  Fourth Small Scale Industry
Loan Number : 2464-CO
Loaa Amount : US$'O.O million equivalent
RVP Unit    : Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Latin .merica and the Caribbean Region
Country     * Republic of Colombia
Subsector   : Finance and Industry
1.2 Background
1.       The Fourth Small Scale Industry Project (SSI4) was prepared in 1983
following four yeara of marginal growth in Colombia's industrial output (12
average over 1978-82) and declining exports, owing ostensibly to weak domestic
and international demand, an overvalued Peso, increased quota restrictions and
tariff rates, and competition from contraband.   The average performance of
SSIsB/ over this period was generally comparable to overall trends and they
accounted for about two fifths of the industrial labor force and produced
nearly one fourth of the manufacturing value added.
2.       Moderate optimism underpinned Project preparation,  as the overall
environment for SSI development was considered to be improving: the rate of
Peso devaluation and explicit export incentives were increasing, protection was
expected to be reversed, and the Government was giving particular attention to
the construction, assembly, and capital goods industries.   Also, existing
public instruments for SSI development -- mainly a directed credit fund, a
specialized public development bank (the Corporacion Financiera Popular, or
CFP), and several public technical assistance agencies, were to be reinforced
by a new Government initiative. A newly created Advisory Council composed of
public and private entities concerned with SSIs was to prepare guidelines for
financial and technical assistance to SSIs and to review the potential for
subcontracting mechanisms between larger and smaller enterprises, Government
procurement practices, industrial parks and policies toward five subsectors in
which SSIs predominated.
3.       Enterprise-specific Bank support to Colombian industry up to 1983 was
associated with steel and nickel exploitation enterprises, an export processing
Notwithstanding the Project's title, small and medium scale industries were
included in SSI4 and were defined as firms with total assets not exceeding
US$750,000 equivalent.



-2-
zone, and urban microenterprises.   The Bank also had provided eight credit
linas totaling US$493 million to the Central Bank of Colombia (Banco de la
RepAblica, or BR) to finance larger industry through private development
finance companies (DFCs) and had made three loans totaling US$52.5 million to
BR which on-lent the funds to thte Government's special SSI lending institution
established in 1967, thb CFP.  These latter loans had supported a total of
about 2,300 SSI investments at a total cost of about US$130 million.  CFP's
institutional performance had improved under previous projects, though it
continued to suffer particularly from erratic growth, high portfolio arrears,
high administrative costs and low return on equity.
4.       Like its predecessors,  SSI4 set out to address the development
constraints perceived to be of particular importance to Colombian SSIs. The
foremost concern was their limited access to "conventional" commercial
financing. In the early 1980s, most SSI financing was sourced from Government
directed credit, the Industrial Finance Fund (FFI), and about two-thirds of all
(mostly long-term) formal banking credit to SSIs in Colombia was intermediated
by the CFP. Also, technical assistance programs for SSIs were con3idered to
be inadequate, supplies of raw materials insecure, and enterprise technology
and management systems inappropriate.
1.3 rLoject Obiectives and Description
5.       Against this background, the Project was viewed as one instrument to
help to raise the contribution of SSIs to employment creation and value added
in Colombia. It mainly employed a strategy of increasing the availability of
term credit and technical assistance to SSI enterprises. Four specific Project
objectives were highlighted at the time, namely to:
(a)  provide the SSI subsector with an adequate amount of medium-term
investment credit;
(b)  help to strengthen the quality and delivery of technical assistance
services to SSIs;
(c)  strengthen the institutional, technical and operating capabilities of
CFP, in particular the regional offices; and
(d)  assist the Governmerc to design and coordinate policies affecting SSI
development.
Other purposes of Bank intervention mentioned were to support the recently
adopted system of "market-related" onlending interest rates by CFP to SSIs and
to provide funding in the absence of -lternative sources of long-term funds for
CFP.
6.       The credit component of the Project was supported by US$39.5 million
of the US$40.0 million Bank loan. It was to finance SSI investment expendi-
tures on machinery, equipment, spare parts and related services; the purchase
of industrial buildings in industrial parks and construction of industrial
facilities, civil works, and related permanent working capital needs. Subloans
carrier a blend of two interest rates to SSIs: 15% of a subloan would carry
a rate of the average local 90-day market time deposit (the "DTF" rate) plus
three percentage points, and the remainder would carry a 24Z-26X nominal



- 3 -
(^g2-30% effective)&' fixed. The former rate was applied to borrowers outside
of Colombia's three main cities and the latter to those within them.   The
subloan share to which the variable rate applied was to be renlegotiated with
the aim of increasing it on January 1 of 1986 and 1987 and the fixed rate was
to be reviewed semi-annually with the aim cf ensuring that it was positive in
real terms and compatible with other local rates (particularly those on FFI
funds).   The loan carried a financial margin for CFP of 4.5-5.0 nominal
percentage points (8.52-9.0% effective).
7.       US$0.4  million  of  the  Bank  loan  (US$0.1  million  financed  the
capitalized front-end fee) was to finance a portion of an estimated US$1.1
million in technical assistance to support an Action Program agreed upon with
the Bank during loan negotiations and approved by CFP's Board of Directors as
a condition of loan effectiveness.  The Program was designed to strengthen the
institutional and organizational structure of CFP by building its regional
office network, carrying out a plan to improve subproject appraisal and
supervision, carrying out a feasibility study on mobilization of resources by
CFP from the market, reducing the unit cost of lending and increasing recovery
of delinquencies in the portfolio.   The loan proceeds (at a cost of 122
interest charged to CFP) were to finance the purchase of computer terminals for
CFP's regional offices, and CFP was to cover the remaining costs of the
technical assistance.
1.4 Prolect Design and Organization
8.       From all available iniormation, the Project's design appears to have
been well understood and accepted by those primarily concerned, namely the CFP
and BR. This was due undoubtedly to experience acquired from the substantial
number of previous DFC projects involving both entities as well as to the
Colombian and Bank staff time invested prior to Project start-up (43.7 Bank
staff weeks (SW) through Project appraisal according to the MIS and 5.3 SW
thereafter through Board approval).
9.       While Project objectives included support for the Government's SSI
technical assistance and broad public policy changes (see para. 2), Project
design focused almost exclusively on narrower financial sector issues. While
the Project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) briefly described the former areas,
there were no Project-related resources or activities dedicated to them. Those
entities involved in the Project (both in Colombia and the Bank) had responsi-
bilities and orientations mainly associated with the financial sector. To have
seriously addressed these non-financial issues in a fashion which today's
current Bank standards require would have required substantiully more time and
effort on the part of both parties as well as other institutions (e.g.,
Ministry of Labor, National Planning Department, SSI producers association,
etc.) and would have resulted in a far more complex Project design.
21 Interest rates in Colombia are quoted in nominal and effective terms. As
interest on loans is paid at the beginning rather than at the end of the
period by deducting it from the proceeds of the loan, the "effective"
interest cost on funds actually received by the borrower is higher than the
"nominal" rate charged.



-4-
10.      Within  the  finar.cial  sector,  intensive  attention was  given  to
increasing the portion of the subloan iTt:arest rate to SSIs which was variable.
This was a relatively new concept for such credit in Colombia and was
justifiably the most important and innovative measure to be taken at that time.
Viewed by today's benchmark for Colombia, the target for the level of interest
rates was low -- the real positive fixed rate of 24-26% charged in 1984 is at
least 10 percentage points lower in real terms than the market rates charged
today for Bank funds under the Fifth Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
(SME5).
11.      Unlike the trends in past DFC projects but in step with current
expectations described by the Levy Report and more recent Bank guidelines, the
Project also focused heavily on CFP's institutional development.   In fact,
while there are a total of six pages of SAR devoted to rSI characteristics,
Government policies, the overall financial sector and technical assistance,
another twelve pages present a detail4od analysis of CFP's structure and
systems, prc edures and operations, resources and financial performance.
Attention to institutional dettil was high and preparation work was thorough
in these areas. This design approach, as well as overall Project design, seems
to have been motivated mainly by three lessons from previous SSI Projects
(which were duly noted in the SAR): (a) the Government's success through CFP
in increasing term lending to SSIs with a satisfactory economic impact, (b) the
gradual development of CFP's lending and supervision capabilities; and (c) the
need to reduce the unit cost of CFP lending, in particular by expanding the
role of its regional offices.
12.      Project design did not, however, seriously address two important areas
which were beyond these confines:  the sustainability of CFP as a financial
institution and other alternatives to address the market failure of lending to
SSIs. While the SAR recognized that CFP's profitability levels did not enable
it to maintain the real value of its equity, it nevertheless assessed its
financial performance as "reasonably satisfactory" given its focus on smaller
SSIs and development activities for which it was not remunerated.  It also
assessed the quantitative mobilization of resources by CFP as adequate, though
noted concern over the significant fluctuations in their availability and a
continuing dependence on public domestic agencies and the Bank for them.
13.      Specific consideration was apparently given to channelling Bank funds
through commercial banks  and private development  banks  (CFs).    It was
considered that the National Guaraustee Fund, which had been established
recently to help overcome insufficient collateral problems, and increasing
financial margins under the Project and FFI-supported lending might make SSI
lending more attractive. Nevertheless, unlike the trend across the Bank which
had been employed significantly since 1978,'1 inclusion of commercial banks as
financial intermediaries in the Project was rejected because of (a) a trend
toward specialization in a recent Colombian financial sector reform, (b) the
limited branch network of private CFs, and (c) CFs' reluctance to finance
smaller SSIs.
It See "World Bank Support for Small and Medium Industry in Selected
Countries" (page 9), Report No. 9530 of April 22, 1991 by the Operations
Evaluation Department.



14.      The final design of SSI4 was thus shaped largely by an acceptance of
the specialization concept in the financial sector, a policy focus almost
entirely on interest rates and an expectation of sustainable progress in CFP's
institutional development given especially the positive growth and portfolio
quality trends in the years immediately preceding preparation of SSI4.
However, preparation work did not substantially address the main market
failures in SSI lending which perhaps both the Borrower and the Bank became
more sensitive to later in the decade: the absence of financial margins for
SSIs lending at least equivalent to the opportunity cost of not lending to
large scale clients;  Lhe need for credit access rather than interest rate
subsidies through the involvement of a larger segment of the financial sector
in SSI lending; and the substantial negative effecta on access, credit
processing  time and  cost  created by highly restrictive  directed  credit
regulations.
1.5 Proiect Implementation
15.      The loan was signed about two months after Board approval and made
effective about four months thereafter. Loan commitments and disbursements for
subprojects went substantially according to appraisal estimates. The Bank's
loan was fully committed in September 1987, several months ahead of the
December 31, 198? Commitment Closing Date. This was facilitated in particular
by generally favorable macroeconomic management leading inter alia to
significant aggregate demand in the economy, the well-established institutional
capability of CFP to reach SSIs, and the relatively streamlined mechanism for
subloan commitments and disbursements of the Bank's loan. Disbursement of the
loan also ran smoothly and, for most of the implementation period, slightly
ahead of appraisal estimates. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1988
and final loan disbursement was made in March 1989.
16.      The loan financed 2,211 subprojects, noticeably above the 1,500-1,700
estimated at appraisal (Table 1.1). Average subproject size was markedly below
appraisal estimates (US$46,500 vs. US$65,000 equivalent at 1983 prices). The
average subloan was US$25,600 (1983 prices) with about 25Z of the loan volume
composed of subloans of less than US$12,500 each. Tlwo-thirds of the Bank loan
finenced machinery and equipment, another 172 supported construction costs, and
the remaining 17% covered primarily related permanent working capital needs.
Subloans above the free limit (US$100,000 equivalent) were actually more than
double appraisal estimates: 81 subprojects accounting for 221 of the loan vs.
the estimated 35 projects accounting for about 102.   Ex ante review of
subprojects under the free limit averaged an estimated 10.8 SW per year and
processing of subprojects within the free limit averaged 1.0 SW per year of the
responsible division in the Projects Department (now LA3TF) during the loan
commitment per:5od, or about twice the Bank staff time which would have resulted
had the appraisal estimate been met.
17.      Subloan terms effectively softened in relation to those of the
previous Bank-financed Project (SS13), given a ripe in inflation and an
extension of average maturities. Real effective interest rates under SS14 for
fixed asset financing averaged 3.7-5.71 per annum (depending upon business
location), a decline from 7.71 under SSI3.   Although BR did not agree to
increase the variable portion of the subloan interest rate according to the
schedule expected, significant progress was made toward the end of the Project
with the Government's 1987 reform of interest rates for directed credit.



- 6 -
Project and FFI subloan rates were pegged fully to the DTF and set at DTF + 1
percentage point to SSIs.  Subloaa maturities were ample, particularly in
response to the effects on SSI finances of the recessionary years and to the
rising level of payment arrears.   More than 90% of the subloan commitment
volume under SSI4 provided repayment of 4 or more years (65Z under SSI3), and
about one-third exceeded 6 years (11% under SSI3).
18.      While frequent CFP management turnover was identified as a Project
risk, management continuity was assured throughout most of Project implementa-
tion with the same General Manager heading CFP from the period of Project
preparation in 1983 through the end of 1986 when a new Government was elected.
For the most part, the programs and studies included in the Action Plan
proceeded satisfactorily throughout the loan period.   Delays in efforts to
strengthen CFP's regional offices, another Project risk identified by the Bank,
also did not materialize. Monitoring and management of regional offices was
improved with better trained personnel and more specific performance programs
for each office regarding lending, supervision, portfolio management and
technical assistance.   CFP used the US$400,000 provided under the loan to
acquire 21 personal computers, development tools, and communications hardware
and software for establishing the information system now used for decentralized
data gathering.  Some concern was expressed early in Project implementation
about subproject appraisal, especially in the areas of market analysis,
repayment capacity and procurement. Later supervision missions, however, noted
improvements in CFP's appraisal and supervision activities.
19.      CFP met accounting and audit report requirements, which reflected
excellent presentations of financial statements and footnotes, and were
qualified in only two (1985-86) of the five-year implementation period due to
portfolio arrears above the guidelines of the Superintendency of Banks.
However, the major variance against Project expectations was in CFP's financial
performance, which was manifested inter alia through repeated non-compliance
with financial covenants in the Project and Guarantee Agreements:
(i)  CFP's administrative expenses as a percentage of average total assets
exceeded targets over 1984-86 (7.3% vs. 6.7%, 6.8% vs. 6.5%, and 7.32
vs. 6.0%, respectively);
(ii)  CFP's debt:equity ratio exceeded substantially the stipulated 6:1
limit over 1985-88 (6.2, 13.5, 16.7 and 8.6, respectively) and only
thereafter fell within the limit following negotiation of SME5; and
(iii)  CFP's lending for special programs entrusted by the Government for
CFP's administration, representing 3.3% of total 1984 CFP's lending
and nearly 52 in 1986, exceeding the 2.5% stipulated in the Project
Agreement.
20.      Annual  loan  supervision work by  the  Bank was  relatively  high
(averaging 19.1 SW over about 3.5 years of active supervision), and concern was
expressed about these problems by the Bank on a number of occasions.   Its
efforts were focused mainly on encouraging CFP to establish more explicit
operational performance targets for recovery of portfolio arrears and to
increase its overall lending operations as well as on pressing the Government
to meet its commitments to provide additional equity.   However, given the
Project's rapid loan commitment rate and the satisfactory execution of the



- 7 -
Action Program, attention to CFP's overall financial performance progressively
became an issue to be dealt with in the anticipated follow-up Project.
1.6 Prolect Results and Sustainabilitv
21.      SSI Investment.  The Project had a measurable effect on the avail-
ability of credit to Colombia's smaller business market (Table 1.1).  About
two-thirds of the subprojects (40% by loan volume) supported very small formal
sector enterprises (under 9 employees), and 952 (852 by loan volume) were
undertaken by enterprises defined in Colombia as "small" (under 50 employees).
Over half of loan commitments were to industrial sectors with moderate to high
average labor intensity, with subprojects concentrated most heavily among firms
operating in agro-industry (24.52), metal products and machinery (21.7Z) and
textiles and clothing (18.42).
22.      Bank financing under SSI4 increased by &bout 1292 in real terms over
SSI3 and the number of subprojects increased by nearly 662 (900 investments)
to reach a total of 2,211 subprojects. The Bank's loan was complemented by the
mobilization of US$31.6 million equivalent by SSIs themselves and other
domestic market sources. While this was a positive development, there is also
evidence that the Bank's loan effectively substituted rather than complemented
the use of domestic resources.41 Essentially, while the interest rates on the
two lines were comparable, the many conditions and administrative requirements
of the FFI motivated the banking system to prefer to use Bank resources.
23.      A large share of the loan volume went to SSIs outside Colombia's three
principal cities, substantially as expected (67% of the total vs. a 60Z
appraisal estimate).   This reflects the substantially greater geographical
dispersion of SSIs across Colombia than for industry overall (two-thirds of all
industrial plants are found within the three major metropolitan areas).
Support for new enterprises exceeded expectation (252 actual vs. 152 esti-
mated). Though evidence is not available to determine how many of such
investments were b'y new entrepreneurs, it remains very probable that Project
support served to both help build and further develop such human skills in the
economy. Those subprojects supporting export promotion were substantially
below even the small share expected (2X actual vs. 102 estimated).   Quite
clearly, and consistent with Bank experience in such projects elsewhere, access
to capital is necessary but not sufficient to overcome adverse trade and
industrial policies and an absence of support programs.
24.        A  detailed  financial  analysis was  conducted  on  a  small  but
representative sample of 22 subprojects, accounting for about 12 of the total
number and 52 of the total Bank loan (Table 1.2). Data for this analysis was
provided primarily by the CFP as part of its normal supervision process and
supplemented by enterprise interviews.   In many cases, however, CFP's data
reflected mostly overall enterprise data rather than subproject specific
41 See the Staff Appraisal Report of the Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Scale
Enterprise Project, paras. 2.12-2.15.



- 8 -
monitoring indicators and financial statements as at Dacember 31, 1990 were
unavailable.!'
25.      The subproject sample reflected average cost overruns of 10.72 over
estimated costs and average delays in subproject execution of 4.5 months
(excluding one subproject which was delayed nearly 2.5 years).  In reality,
however, performance varied drastically.  Absent more information from the ex
post evaluation, it appears that nearly one-third of the sample experienced
substantial design changes and/or delays in execution, and another one-quarter
did not provide the information necessary to determine these parameters.
26.      Twelve of the 22 subprojects in the sample increased installed
capacity over a range oE 45% to 100%. About two-thirds of them succeeded in
increasing both installed capacity and efficiency.  In the cases where both the
original and revised IRR were available, six had IRRs of between 12.0% and
43.6% while the remaining six had negative IRRe.   These are not likely,
however, to be very reliable performance indicators as, according to evaluation
interviews, the full investment costs seem to be reported while sales tend to
be considerably understated, thereby leading to substantially under re-
estimated IRRs.   This may be supported by the fact that four of the 22
subprojects displayed repayment problems while the remaining 18 cases had a
normal debt service of their financial obligations to CFP.   This rate of
arrears is roughly consistent with the fact that CFP's overall arrears over
1986-90 averaged 13% of total portfolio. This corresponds approximately to a
repayment rate of 872 of total principal and interest due and would rank CFP
above the world-wide average for 33 completed Bank-financed SSI projects (80Z).
However, this rate is noticeably below the average for such operations in the
Latin America and Caribbean Region (92%).°/
27.      Actual employment generated by the subprojects in the few sample cases
for which information was available resulted in a growth in employment of 22%
above the number previously employed by the investing firms. The average cost
per job created was US$8,620 (1983 prices), nearly one-half of the appraisal
estimate of US$16,000. Should this average cost hold true for the total number
of subprojects, the actual aggregate employment creation under the Project
would be on the order of 8,000 direct jobs (appraisal estimates were 5,500-
6,500). This does not, of course, clearly indicate that total employment has
risen by this amount (workers may move from other jobs, other firms may
contract, etc.) nor does it account for indirect job creation through
multiplier effects.
28.      The SSI investment profile under the Project reflects an impressive
ability to provide credit to very small firms across the country operating
5/ In the absence of some data, the following main assumptions were made:
(a) the marginal profitability of the enterprise was assumed t be
representative of the subproject's profitability; and (b) total investment
cost per job was computed by dividing the incremental assets by the
incremental number of employees.
61 See "World Bank Lending for Small and Medium Enterprises: Fifteen Years
of Experience" (para 1.25), Industry and Energy Department of the World
Bank, December 1989.



- 9 -
largely in the low income segments of the economy and to support entrepre-
neurial effort. The ex post evaluation of the subproject sample suggests that
there was a wide variety of performance in the implementation of these
investments,  including frequently substantial modification and delay.   In
adlition, though the gross employment creation effects of these investments
appear to be strong, there is wide disparity among enterprise with respect to
the more important longer run impact on enterprise efficiency and sustainable
increases in income.
29.      Technical Assistance.  Under SSI4 and prior Bank-financed project.,
CFP developed a capacity to meet many basic technical cooperation requirements
of SSIs. CFP's personnel supported the preparation of financial feasibility
studies and the provision of basic information for subloans approval.  They
also provide technical advisory services in different managerial and operating
fields for small business. Under SSI4, such services were provided to nearly
1,600 firms, and about 530 seminars were organized by CFP in which some 6,300
industrialists participated.
30.      At the same time, these programs have tended not to provide sufficient
direct advisory services tailored to individual enterprises, particularly with
respect to training in product planning and production techniques, quality
control and marketing.  Under SME5, CFP is developing a modest feedback and
evaluation system to try to better judge the utility and cost effectiveness of
technical assistance programs and to further encourage SSIs to include more
tailored support in its pre-investment and investment programs.
31.      CFP Institutional Development.  The "institutional strengthening" of
CFP was expected to manifest itself mainly in higher portfolio growth, better
portfolio quality and lower unit costs.   By the end of the implementation
period in 1988, however, the net effect was between marginally positive to
substantially negative in these areas, yielding no material progress toward the
objective of CPP becoming an autonomous, financially self-sustaining institu-
tion to serve SSIs.
32.      CFP made some progress under its 1984-87 Action Plan to improve the
efficiency and quality of its operations. It revised its operating framework
and stepped up staff training in an effort to decentralize its operations to
CFP's regional offices.   A slow but progressive shift in staff away from
headquarters followed, falling from 412 to 372 of total staff over the Plan
period. There is evidence that subloan processing time over 1986-87 fell by
some 302 to 402 in most cases, and that appraisal activities improved in
quality. A substantial increase in supervision visits by CFP also took place,
growing from 1773 to 3056 per year over 1983-87, and information systems appear
to have improved significantly with the installation of Bank-financed computers
and training.   Six of 14 regional offices utilize this equipment both for
administrative as well as project appraisal purposes. While CFP's accounting
records aggregate operations data are good, experience from the sample used for
the ex post evaluation suggests that project-specific data remain sketchy. The
current system appears to be intended more to audit the use of funds than vo
monitor the investment efficiency and needs to be improved if the impact of
subprojects themselves is to be better understood.
33.      Notwithstanding these institutional improvements, little progress was
made during SSI4 or, for that matter, during earlier Bank collaboration with



- 10 -
CFP toward achieving CFP's broader financial performance objectives
(Table 1.3).   CFP's annual lending in real terms virtually stagnated over
1984-88 (0.62 average per year). In fact, 1988 loan approvals in real terms
were not substantially higher than those of 1976-78 and those of 1990 were
equivalent to those of 1974. In addition, the Project implementation period
was a very representative time slice of a pattern over the longer run of
strong, persistent cycles of growth and contraction in its loan portfolio.
Undet relatively good macroeconomic conditions, CFP's loan portfolio over
1989-90 stagnated in nominal terms and declined in real terms by 132 and 202,
respectively, apparently largely a result of internal personnel adjustments.
34.      Total CFP administrative costs in terms of average total assets showed
improvement over 1984-88, as did the number and real value of subloans made per
CFP staff member.  By 1988, such costs had fallen to 5.72 of average total
assets from 7.12 in 1984 and, as in 1987, were within the legal covenant
requiring CFP not to exceed 6.02. However, these were only the second and
third times in thirteen years (the other was 1978) in which the administrative
cost target was met. Over 1988-90, despite a marked cut in staff levels from
359 to 311 aimed to further reduce costs, this indicator again rose to 7.82 of
average portfolio (virtually the same as in 1975) with the fall in CFP's loan
volume.
35.      Despite the relative cost gains over the Project implementation
period, it did not improve CFP's low after-tax profitability (0.92 over 1975-83
and virtually the same for 1990), nor did it reduce periodic needs for the
Government to replenish its capital base and its heavy reliance on domestic
directed credit and external credit lines.  During SSI4, CFP sustained net
operating losses in each year (except 1984) averaging -3.32 of total assets.
Two factors explain why profits turned from marginal to negative despite better
administrative cost control: (a) financial margins fell over the period from
7.4% to 5.42 of assets due mainly to an extraordinarily high proportion of non-
performing assets over 1984-86; and (b) significant provisions for losses were
made in 1986 to recognize the rising trend since 1982 in loan payment arrears.
Since the Government took steps in 1989 and 1990 under its financial sector
reform and SME5 to increase the margins on directed credit, CFP's financial
margin has risen substantially to 12.02 of average portfolio for 1990.
36.      CFP's total Payment arrears rose steadily over 1980-84 from 8.32 to
16.9% of its total portfolio, largely as a result of the recessionary
conditions of the early 1980s. During Project implementation, the proportion
fell slowly through 1987 but returned to its high 1984 level the following
year. By comparison, this indicator for private development banks (CFs)
participating in the Development Banking Project (2477-CO), which essentially
serves large industrial enterprises, showed sharp improvemenat ovor June
1985-June 1987, falling nearly in half from an average of 9.1Z to 4.8Z of total
loan portfolio.   CFP's non-performing assets (arrears over 360 days) fell
slowly over 1984-88 from 9.3Z to 7.22 and, while it has progressed further to
6.12 in 1990, remains high.   Nevertheless,  this average for private CFs
improved rapidly from 7.32 to 1.22 over the Project execution period and stood
at 0.52 in 1990.



Total Arrears / Total PorLfolio                                                  Total Annual Credit Approvals. 74 -  00
CFP. 1974        1900                                                     .CFP. (Conkstanit 1900 USS Millions)
5                                                                                        B Mf0 m
20
250                             --
200
1w.~~~~~~~~~~~5
50                                                             8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
41.4                                      ----C--*975 -   10 0-CF . 1-7                                               ON
40                                                                                   7
30                                                             so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-   -                   -----   --*             2~~      ~~~ ~~0                           _  _  _ _   _  _ _  _  _ _  _
1975    J377    1973    1913    1903         1895     89?       £309                 5974    8976    1978    £980    5902    8984    to61    £981   1990



- 12 -
37.      A more fruitful aspect of CFP's risk management during the Project was
its implementation of recommendations contained in a detailed evaluation by
Peat Marwick in 1986 of the probable realizable value of its real property
guarantees. By the end of 1987, CFP had made provisions to cover the likely
shrinkage between their stated and market value, equivalent to about 412 of
arrears exceeding one year.   While the uncovered share of such arrears
represented about 75Z of CFP's net worth at year-end 1987, this fell to about
282 by year-end 1988 following an additional capital injection to CFP from the
Government.
38.      CFP's financial losses and loss provisioning made deep cuts into CFP's
net worth during SSI4.   This was an extreme case in a long-term trend of
marginal returns on equity (4.02 average over 1975-83) which has prevented CFP
from maintaining the real value of its equity.   CFP embarked upon SSI4
underpinned by a debt/equity ratio of 4.8:1, well within the 6.0 target
covenanted in the Bank's loan.  This fell to 16.7:1 by year-end 1987 before the
Government's subsequent capital injections returned the ratio to 4.3:1 by 1990.
39.      Besides these capital inflows, the main source of funds for CFP's
lending growth over the Project implementation period was primarily the Bank's
SS14 loan.  Consequently, CFP's indebtedness to Banco de la Republica for SS14
borrowings  jumped  from 40.92  to 50.62  of its total indebtedness.    Its
mobilization of domestic term deposits during this per'od represented only a
small fraction of total borrowings.  CFP's dependency on FFI increased over
1988-90, pending effectiveness of the Bank's SME5 loan, thus decreasing the
Bank's share of CFP indebtedness to 41.2% in 1990. However, in the absence of
better overall financial performance, the prospect of CFP reducing its
dependence upon Government capital inputs and directed credit are poor.
40.      Sustainabilitv.  It appears clear in light of the results described
above that while the effects of SSI investment may well have a long-lasting
impact, the Project did not increase the self-sustaining performance capability
of the CFP. Credit availability to the smaller industry did increase and has
also been extended to encompass a greater geographical area and wider economic
scope. However, these improvements are undermined by the erratic financial
performance and limited institutional development of CFP. Despite occasional
improvements in profitability and efficiency, CFP continues to be dependent on
government funds and is unlikely to become an autonomous and self-sufficient
institution any time soon in the absence of a move to privatize it. Sustain-
ability is far more likely to be achieved, as under SME5, by incorporating SME
lending programs into a multitude of more diversified financial institutions.
41.      Public Policies for SSI Development.  As indicated in the Section 1.4
above on Project design, no explicit effort was made under the Project to
address specifie policies for SSIs.   In addition, it is very difficult to
decipher the effects (if any) of the intentions by the Goverment perceived at
the outset of the Project to give particular attention to SSIs.11 Recent work
in Colombian and industrial sector work and lending by the Bank nevertheless
has demonstrated that Colombia's trade regime prior to its recent reform was
21 Government and private sector support for microenterprise development has
been far more apparent during the 1980s.



- 13 -
disproportionately constraining on SSIs, and that the same is very likely to
be the case in the domestic regulatory framework.
1.7 Bank and CFP Performance
42.      The Bank's performance was strongest in its selective attention on
interest rate policy to linking rates to an index reflecting changing cost over
time.   Its focus on this issue during Project preparation and persistent
attention during supervision helped to achieve important changes for the future
in the structure of interest rates which are employed today. While BR delayed
implementation of changes expected by the Bank, it did act decisively in one
step to established full variability in rates prior to the end of the Project,
perhaps exceeding the Bank's initial aims.
43.      The collaborative relationship developed between the Bank and both BR
and the CPP through previous projects was an important factor underpinning the
Action Plan. BR and the CFP were fully involved in the preparation of the Plan
and carried out their respective commitments in implementing the program of
studies under the Plan. The Bank also performed well during Project prepara-
tion and supervision through its detailed attention to the Plan.
44.       Both CFP and the Bank also succeeded in meeting their top priority
objective  of providing medium-term  finance  to SSIs.    CFP expeditiously
committed the loan to SSIs, providing substantial opportunity for entrepre-
neurial activity across a broad range of economic activities and geographical
areas. The Bank facilitated this through its establishment of a relatively
agile mechanism for subloan commitment and disbursement.
45.      The performance of both parties was clearly far less satisfactory when
it came to progress toward self-sustaining institutional development of CFP.
The Bank sought to achieve greater structural change in CFP basically through
the Action Plan.  However, it failed to ensure that tno Project include a
mechanism requiring the definition and implementation of actions during Project
implementation which could bring about the changes generated from the Plan.
This was reflected and reinforced by the fact that conditionality on CFP
financial performance did not include a dynamic which would have required
achievements beyond those standards utilized in previous projects. The Bank's
heavy focus on CFP and its acceptance of CFP's specialized role also led it to
forego development of a design strategy to increase SSI credit access through
commercial banks, an approach utilized widely and with success elsewhere in the
Bank.
46.      Despite good intentions, CFP also failed to take decisive measures to
expand its overall lending program and to compress its cost structure to give
a greater market orientation to the organization.   CFP was hampered by
Government expectations, manifested by its Board of Directors, to concentrate
on very small enterprise development using sub-market interest rates and
margins as well as by other costly Government-sponsored programs. At the same
time, the need to substantially curtail costs was alleviated by the fact that
the Government has repeatedly stepped in (though not until very late in the
SS14 Project) to counterbalance CFP's low profitability through additional
capital contributions.



Debt / Equity Ratio                                              Administrative Expenses / Total Assets
Private CPs and CFP, 1900 - 1990                                            Private CFs and CFP. 1081 - 100
20 
.5                                                                          2                                                            1.6 4..
10 _=                                            4                             _ _____ _.__-_______________________
1960  lost  1OOZ   1953  1904   190S  1906  1907  l1s9   1909               1981   1902   1903   1964   1985   19tl    1987   1958   1l0s   1090
Av t*fIG 6Prit CF    +  CFP                                             -    Avg of to Priv Cps     CFP
Net Income as % of Average Equity                                        Non-Performing Assets / Total Portfolio                               >
Private CPs and CF!'. 1001 - 1990                                           Private CFs ankd CFp. 1900- 1990
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
ao             _                     .                  . . .               10
40                                                                          0
20
1901  tt02  198J  1904  1985   Ms0  lea?  19U0   1989  logo                1980  t9al  1902  1903  t984  190    goes  lea?  lose  logo  logo
( -Av o1 Prv si                                              oft Pi CO        + I.s
0 ~   ~     -     t    +^ge  0rl c.*b   ft   ac                                                                      r



_ 15 -
1.8 Conclusions
47.      The first priority of the Project agreed upon by the Government, CFP
and the Bank -- to provide medium-term finance to SSIs -- was achieved. The
Project also helped to build the interest rate structure in use today, which
permits financial institutions to reflect in their lending to SSIs the changing
cost in the marketplace.
48.      The Project did not, however, achieve its priority objective in an
institutionally sustainable way, despite modest gains in CFP's operating
efficiency during the implementation period, nor did it tackle other issues
underlying the market failure to lend to SSIs.   While Project objectives
included support for SSI technical assistance and broad public policy changes,
Project design and resources also did not reflect these aims.  In any case,
other Government initiatives and Bank projects, which have reduced distortions
industry- or economy-wide, have undoubtedly been more appropriate instruments
for this purpose.
49.      The subsequent Bank-financed project to facilitate SSI development,
SMES (for which a Bank loan of US$80 million was approved by the Board in
1988), tried to learn from the SSI4 experience by addressing the problems of
credit access and institutional sustainability with a different approach. It
is designed to increase SSI access to credit, in part by substantially
increasing the number of financial intermediaries lending to SMEs.  Simul-
taneously, it is intended to create a more competitive environment in which CFP
operates and to be the main motivating force by which to stimulate reaL
improvements in its performance trends.  To reinforce this aim, SME5 estab-
lished more stringent CFP administrative cost and profitability performance
targets and set limitations on the share of Bank funds (352) which could be
used to fund its annual lending program.  As additional support, the Si"5
Project brought about increased financial margins on Project funds and
introduced a restructuring program to help deal with non-performing loans.
50.      Early in 1991, Colombia's new Government adopted a financial sector
reform program aimed to increase the overall competitive environment in which
financial institutions operate and to increase the efficiency of their
operations. The new management of CFP named by the new Government subsequently
initiated a product diversification program (leasing, credit cards, and
increased export credits) aimed to increase profitability and, as in the past,
an action program to improve human resource skills, organization and management
of CFP. While this program is likely to increase the profitability of some
product lines, it does not yet profoundly address cost, loan portfolio quality,
resource mobilization and capital structure issues in a way which is likely to
lead CFP to become a self-sustaining market player among Colombian financial
i.lstitutions .
51.      The Bank is, therefore, in the process of seeking Government agreement
to undertake a serious and immediate exercise in consultation with the private
sector as part of the Government's financial sector reform program to prepare
either an aggressive privatization program or, alternatively, to clarify its
goals and functions as a public financial institution, modify its policies and
seriously restructure the CFP.



- 17 -                                  lable 1
POge 1 of 4
PROFILE OF ALL SUBLOANS
LOAN 2464-CO
No. Projects    No. as Z of Total        Value as 2 of Total
Leading by Location
Ahma zas                               2             0.092                     0.182
Antioquia                            176             7.962                    11.551
Arauca                                 1             0.051                     0.02S
Atlantico                            129             5.832                     9.222
Bogota                              389             17.59Z                    27.932
Bolivar                              81              3.662                     3.53S
Boyaca                               61              2.76Z                     2.032
Caldas                              290             13.121                     5.541
Caqueta                              18              0.81:                     0.42%
Cauca                                43              1.942                     1.022
Cesar                                 10             0.45Z                     0.432
Cordoba                              16              0.722                     0.951
Cundinamarca                         23              1.041                     0.89Z
usinia.                                1.            0.052                     0.031
Cuajira                                1             0.05                     0.112
Huila                                79              3.572                     1.26Z
Magadalena                             8             0.362                     0.552
nets,                                 18             0.811                     1.67Z
Narino                               98              4.43Z                     1.98:
Nor. Santander                        76             3.441                     2.452
Putumayo                               8             0.361                     0.202
Quindio                              127             5.742                     2.98t
Risaralda                            131             5.922                     3.981
San Andres                            6              0.27Z                     0.502
Santander                           163              7.371                     5.371
Sucez                                13              0.59%                     0.552
Tolima                                76             3.44Z                     3.712
Valle del C-uc-                      166             7.512                    10.942
Vichada                                1             0.052                     0.00o
TOTAL                              2211            100.001                    99.992
Lending by Economic Sector
31  Food, Beverages, Tobacco.       541             24.472                    23.412
32  Textiles, Leather                407            18.412                    11.921
33  Wood Products                    16S             7.462                     5.862
34  Paper, Printing                  206             9.32S                    12.742
35  Chmicals, Petroleum              183             8.28S                    13.472
36  Nonmetal Minerals                124             5.611                     6.231
37  Basic Metals                      37              1.672                    2.582
38  Metal Products, Machinery        479            21.662                    20.642
39  Other ManufacturIUS               69             3.121                     3.16Z
TOTAL                               2211           100.002                   100.002
Sourcet LAC Filess Banco de la Republica.



Table 1.1 
- 18 -                            Page 2 of 4
Loan 2464-CO
Lending by Expenditure Category of Project
Expenditure Category           No. Projects   No. as Z of Total    Value as x of Total
Machinery & Equipment           1878              48.08Z                  66.38Z
Conutruction                     458              11.73Z                  16.82Z
Technical Assistance              22               0.562                   0.152
Other                           1548              39.632                  16.652
TOTAL                           3906             100.00Z                 100.002
Sourc2: LAC Files; CFP.



- 19 -                                Table 1.1
Page 3 of 4
LOAN 2464-CO
Lending by Size of Subproject
(USS 000)
No. Projects   No. as Z of Total        Value       Value as 2 of Total
Less than .930                  109        4.93Z                 76.57         0.20Z
.930 to 1.390                  122         5.52:                153.04         0.40?
1.390 to 2.320                 209         9.45Z                409.92         1.06?
2.320 to 3.245                 146         6.60;                416.72         1.08?
3.245 to 4.640                 206         9.32Z                850.45         2.20:
4.640 to 6.955                 214         9.68?              1,300.40         3.36Z
6.955 to 9.275                 209         9.45?              1,801.50         4.65:
9.275 to 13.910                231        10.45Z              2,763.26         7.13?
13.910 to 23.180               311        14.07?              6,087.18        15.71t
23.180 to 32.455               155         7.01Z              4,429.79        11.43Z
More than 32.455                299       13.52Z             20,451.69        52.79Z
TOTAL                         2211       100.OOZ             38,740.52       100.00?
Source:  LAC Files; CFP.
LOAN 2464-CO
Lending by Enterprise Size (Assets)
(Col$ 000)
No. Projects    No. as 2 of Total   Value as Z of Total
0 to 300                       171         7.73Z                0.782
300.1 to 600.0                 183         8.282                1.85Z
600.1 to 1000.0               184          8.32%                2.692
1000.1 to 2000.0              355         16.062                6.86Z
2000.1 to 3000.0               178         8.05Z                5.392
3000.1 to 4000.0               130         5.88?                4.16?
4000.1 to 5000.0               98          4.43?                4.34Z
5000.1 to 10000.0             292         13.212               13.51Z
10000.1 to 15000.0            157          7.10Z                8.66?
15000.1 to 25000.0            178          8.05?               15.392
More than 25000.1              285        12.89?               36.37Z
TOTAL                        2211        100.00?              100.00.
Source:  L&C Files; CFP.



Table 1.1
- 20 -                            Page 4 of 4
LOAN 2464-CO
No. Projects    No. as S of Total   Value as 2 of Total
Lending by Market Orientation
Export Oriontation               6          0.27Z                1.072
Domoatic Orientation          2178        98.512                97.742
Combined Orientation            27          1.22Z                1.182
TOTAL                         2211        100.0OZ              100.0OS
Lending by Number of Employees
o to 9                        1481        66.r81                39.812
10 to i9                       353        15.97Z                23.021
20 to 49                       269         12.171               22.952
50 to 99                        93          4.211               11.53Z
Over 100                        15          0.682                2.68Z
TOTAL                         2211        100.00              100.001
Lending by Age of Enterprise
Rew Enterprise                 788         35.64Z               24.57Z
Old Enterprise                1423         64.362               75.43S
TOTAL                         2211        100.002              100.001
Source:  LAC File.S  Cl?.



LOAN 2464-CO
Detalls of Samp'. Projects
i17 (ColS n) [Eac. as noted)
Eaterpriso Rae.       Project   Economic           Project Costs       TORD Losn  Initiating Operations
Location     Sector      Estimated     Actual      m7         ProJected    Actual
Succesetul Projet
Alretwnica               Call                 a8           17.7       28.4      87.16           n.o.    r.o.
Alfa Print               Bogota               34          7J.6        03.2    161."            12/37    69/88
Baldopieen              MIhdelIl              36           1.06        9.6      28.38          68/87    11/91
Espesa del Vails         Call                 35           47.6       70.7    164.67            n.e.    ".S.
Farar& Mias.             Cart-agess            1            3.6       11.3      18.49           n.G.    n.o.
Oloso y Perde            Call                 34           99.6      162.6    169.82           12/36   63/67
teencaucim. Indust.      Bogota               3C           63.2       69.2    144.68           06/87    10/37
Supertubes               ModlIls              33           64.0       34.1    127.73             n.n    n.*.
Sub-Total                                                 370.6      519.1      833.3
Vajor Dolays or Subprojoct DOesign Changed durlng Isploentation
Culnanto Ltd.            Call                 32       Bankrupt                 53.69
Celtix                   Cartagena            3C          1u4.         4.2    169.0.            n.e.    n.m.
Fundic. Futuro eMedeill.                      37           16.3       11.2      24.73          09/88   03/87
Indupas                  Call                 31           26.3       66.6      46.34          02/87    07/37
Ind. Yack 11Us           Perelr               32           56.6       24.7      41.22          08/37 7   1/63
Ladrill. Moderns         Medellin             s6           15.9        1.6      45.34          12/06     N.G.
SubwTotal                                                 216.3       97.1      566.7
Not Enough Informtion Avallable
Acces. Y Anodizedo       Bogoto               35            5.2       n.a.      16.96          09/86      .m.
Comst. Rices             Bogoto               31           63.7       n.o.    140.59           og/36    61/83
Cenf. Baromleth          Peroira              32            2.5       G.&.      21.02          01/37    01/37
Dnrio Cortos             Prolra               81           n.o.       n.m.    116.41            n.*.    n.o.
Eapaq. Nundlal           Pornlra              34           n.n.       n.e.      42.45            n.e     n.e.
Iuebles Cid.             Bogota               53           73.6       ".e.    284.41           11/66    63/67                    I
Sub-Total                                                                       0286 2.
TOTAL                                                     686.9      616.2    1823.1
n.s. Not Avellable
Source: LAC Files.



LOAN 2464-CO
Investment Project Evaluation
Project Cost   Proj. Exec.       Capacity Increase      Efficiency    Employment Increase  Internal Rate Return
Overrun (X)      Delay.       Expected Actual (Y/N) Increase (Y/N) Expected   Actual   Expected    Actual
(Months)
Acces. V Anodzado              n.n.          n.n.            26%     Y               Y            n.s.                   33.7X      n.r.
Air*t4cmica                   00.46X         n.n.          n.r.      Y              Y             n.e.        n.S.       26.8%       nog
Alfeprint                     18.01X            9          n.r.      N              N               7         n.e.       38.2X      19.3X
Saldopimos                    -4.200           29          n.a.      Y              Y                8        n.a.       18.3X      -9.4X
Caminante ULd                                               now      N              Y            n.s.         n.B.       n.r.       n.r.
ColIux                       -9K.97X         n.n.           now      N              N              26         n.n.       n.o.      -36.8X
Comest. RICeo                  n.n.            19           200X    Y               N              10          37        29.2X      n.n.
Conf. Baronet                  n.n.             0            26X     Y              y               6            8       n.m.       n.a.
Darto Cortes                   n.n.          n.n.          n.e.      N              N            n.e.         n.m.       n.n.       n.n.
Empaq. Mundiol                 n.e.          n.e.            47X    Y               y            n.s.         n.n.       n.s.       n.e.
Eepumas del Valle             49.63X         n.n.          n.n.      y              y               2           16       18.6X      16.8%
Farah Hnoe.                   41.25X         n.m.          n.a.      Y              N            n.s.         n.n.       n.s.       21.4X
Fundle. Futuro               -31.29%            6           now      N              N               7         n.n.       n.n.       43.0X
Indupan                      119.37X            6            40%     N              y               7           23       22.3X     -14.8%
Ind. Yack lan                -56.60X            6          n.r.      Y              N              16           16       n.a.       n.s.
Ladrlll. Modern              -9W.66X         n.s.           100%    N               Y              12           10       94.9X       neg
Muobles Cld                    n.s.             4            70%     Y              Y              22         n.e.       24.9X      n.m.
Olen* y Perdo                 63.25%            3            46X    N               N              24           10       n.a.       38.1X
Reuncauch. Indust.             9.49X            4          n.r.      Y              Y               9           11       36.09      12.0X
Supertubos                    56.74%         n.n.            14%    y               Y              17        n.n.        26.3X       neg
TOTAL.                                                                                             86          124
AVERAGE                       10.72X          4.6 1/                                                                    28.46%      0.58X
1/ Excludes Beldopisos end Co mt. Ricos.
n.o.  Not Avalnable
n.r.  Not Relevant                                                                                                                          o
Source:  LAC Files.
o.-
-0*



COLUG0A
Fifth Small and Mdium Scale Induatry Project
Performance of Previous Snk-Finaced SgE ProJect. in ColoeMs
Key Performance Xicatorm of Corporacion Financier* Popular
wMTH AND EtMImoS PalWACE
1975   197    197    1978   1979   1960   I191   1982   1963   1984   1965   19f6  196    1988   199   1990
hcal GroewH at",
Anneal Iminal Growth n
1ie Partfolle                             40.W0  65.40  20.20  47.10   6.60  38.20  42.10  40.80  2D.70  12.00  26.10  26.00  32.40  31.76   8.77   6.91
Total A_ t.                               21.30  61.00  86.80  38.20  12.70  43.10  34.70  45.60  18.50  1.30  25.80  21.40  83.60  87.47  10.00   5.68
swilt                                      4.80  47.30   2.40  55.40  17.60   7.60  25.20  25.50  23.10  16-80  16.70 -40.00   9.20 10.36  53.95  31.30
Awwal Real Growth In: 1/
lien Portfolio                            16.70  41.10  -1.90  24.10 -19.60   5.50  17.70  19.60   2.40 -11.60  -1.60   3.90   9.40   2.65 -13.75 -19.23
Total Aemte                                3.20  38.70  14.40  15.60 -13.50  15.40  10.30  24.60   0.20 -10.30  -1.90  -3.60   4.60   7.30 -12.78  -20.16
Eviult                                   -17.90  23.00 -19.70  J2.40  -8.60 -19.90   0.e0   4.50   4.0  -6.-o  -11.00 -65.00 -19.60  79.60  22.07  -0.e0
Proltatlltg
Income an Expenme an I of total met                                                                                                                                            I
Crem Incem                                16.90  1N.00  17.90  17.90  19.50  19.30  20.40  21.10  21.60  22.60  19.00  20.30  20.90  21.41  25.57  26.31
FInancial Eapenme                          7.50   8.20   9.10   9.70   9.10   9.40  11.10  12.60  1J.50  13.60  13.30  14.0   15.20  15.40  17.65  16.26                    w
Adelnistrati. En penam                     7.40   7.60   7.20   5.90   6.30   6.70   7.10   6.70   6.50   7.10   6.60   7.30   6.00   5.70   6.29   7.75
Lime Prowislon   Depreciation              1.50   1.30   1.10   1.30   0.90   1.50   1.10   1.50   1.60   1.60   1.20   3.10   1.20   0.67   1.01   1.34
Ntt Incom  after Taves                     1.50   0.30   0.40   0.50   2.00   0.50   1.50   0.50   0.5    0.60  -1.30  -4.60  -0.60   0.33   1.26   0.64
a  ncome am s oIf Averwa  fstay              3.60   0.e0   1.60   2.00   7.40   7.10   7.30   3.00   2.70   3.30  -9.20 -51.90 -15.90   4.85  11.65   6.76
Income & ibpemee as 3 of Average Portfolio
Incom frm liJe                            19.80  19.00  20.20  19.30  22.20  22.30  23.10  24.10  24.70  23.20  28.30  26.30  26.8O  26.19  31.19  31.46
Financial Eapanne                                               11.40  11.S0  12.40  14.50  16.10  16.90  16.80  19.80  21.10  21.40  20.27  21.54  19.44
Financial Nargin                           6.50   5.60   7.00   6.10  10.70   9.60   6.00   7.50   7.40   6.20   6.50   5.20   5.40   7.92   9.65  12.02
1/ Adjusted by the netieal acconXte defletor for fixed capital formtin.
Smm: CFPa LAC Filem.
O 
0.Vb



Key t'rforaoc. Indileators of Couporsclwo Flefnclera PoIlar
1975  1918  19t?  1978   9    198t0  198   1982  1983  1984  1,985  1986  198          19W     1989    199D
DINSTRIlI  COT me AoUwIvI
t4Imr ofdsu81 MebHtr                                               350   344   360   395   383   374   410   406   412   405   400           359     319      311
htm"re o S   jo tppnw"                                           1.891  1,20 1,693 1,747 2,011 2.721  2,65  2,480  2,549 2,492 2,357   267Y3   2,022   1,423
Valvo of Prejeet. Apprwed (milllan* Colt)
Vlvo ('008 cell)                                   466   NS   971 1.172  1,301 2,061  1.475 4,342 4.1S2  4.303 5,331 6,84o 9.012  11.52S  11.342  14.512
Volvo (Coo 197 Cell)                               40    643   602  $61   62    419   tl    882   131   54   540   657   OM3              729     569      852
Total CF Admini.sraiul. Caste ('@00 Coit)
Value (1000 Call)                                                                                                    7tO   916 1,014   1.286   1,561   2,033
Value (too00"17 Cell)                                                                                                        9 92    82     e1      78       77
Soipro)ees App wre   per S1taf lf "ore
lImbers of SeWpreject.                                          6.10  6.t0  6.20  6.10  6.00  7.90  7.30  6.74  6.74   6.32   6.62 '  8.O    S.5"         6.31
Value (000 Coll)                                               2.770 3,200 3,450 4.285 7,9Oo 1D,90o 10,141 10.820 12.939 16,888 24.780  32.104  35.,55  J 46.6
Valvo ('@00 1975 Cell)                                         1.325 1,714 1,464  1,424 2.111 2.409  1.393  1.635 1.531  i.599  1.61,   2,031   1783    1.775
Avrera* Operoling Cols poert
staff emaer (OOO cell)                                          240   2m    aS9   401  6U2    M85 1.082  1.394  1.724  2,180 2,534   3.53   4,894.  6,635                 t
51*1 MebAer ('000 19t7 Cel$)                                     158   140   152   148  17    195   202   211   204   206   184           221     245      248
Number of Sa4rejet. ('1t Cell)                                   47    49    el    94   1II   112   147   202   256   358   383            448     746   1,231
*Ambr of sbprjoJets (t'wo 1975 Cil$)                             31    26    29    31    30    25    2?   J3    30    34    28              28      3?       47
Volvo of I4preje aO ('000 CS)                                     of    O9   104    92    63    81   1or   128   133   134   102           112     136      139
SuLV=C AND CAPITAL STlUlUlE        
Foraig Del/qd                                      18    2.10   3.10   3.30  2.40   3.80  4.20  5.00  4.A0  4.60   6.20  13.50  16.70   6.69          5.71   4.34
Ferelfo 5."oeeS.. /T       _holerroeit ea          6.30  22.10  28.30  26.70 42.40  46.20 4.6°0 61.40 61.40 46.60  55.   64.40  69.70 90.59           S.7   48.74
Omumele IbsDimee Creilb (CT)T.ela Sorroel".e                          17.60 32.00  33.20 31.10 44.10 45.00 40.90  61.00 1 50.20  64.40  60.67r    45.73  41.16
4.40  8.10   6.30   6.28       6.42  14.84
Pre.llon fwr Loeare/Avero. Portfoello
Arreare/Totel ftritol lo                                                                                ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.76  1.09   1.44
Af ralrT..l  nertch.                             20-20  14.40  12.80  14.80 12.40   6.40  9.1o  9.20 14.40 16.30  15.S0  14.70  12.50  16.01        10.16  11.81
LMar then 310 Dale                            13.20   7.0   6.30   68.20  6.00   4 .o 5.70  4.90  7.20 7.50   6.30  6.30   6.20   8.66             5.17   5.76
Mere Iham 360 Day.                 yo~~~~7.0    *910   5.6    58D  4.40   4:3   40   4.30  7.20 9.30   9.20  8.40   6.30   7.16        4.99   6.07
C;b    s M rwaC Filee,. 
00
0*-
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~p
W'



- 25 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM CFP'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1 Summarve'
2.2  Application of Loan Proceeds2'
2.3  Action Program
1.       In order for CFP to achieve its overall objectives between 1984 and
1987 (i.e., increasing its share in the financing of domestic material output
from 142 to 20%, and providing 16,470 new loans totaling Col$31 billion), it
had to adapt its organizational structure and operating procedures so that the
growth in operations would produce a comparatively small rate of increase in
the cost of those operations and the ratio of administrative costs to total
assets would be reduced in proportion.
2.       Organization and Management.   In this area, CFP's activities bore
fruit, especially as regards organization.   Intense efforts were devoted to
updating procedures manuals, and the powers of the Regional Offices were
increased. As a result of these operating changes, formalities for granting
loans were reduced. The austerity policy (introduced to counteract the 1986
and 1987 deficits) considerably reduced staffing, especially in the Directorate
General and in the Regional Offices, with a consequent reduction in labor costs
that improved the ratio of administrative costs to total assets, while
rationalizing staffing and limiting its growth.
3.       Implementation o, the "Strategic Planning" Program has modified the
structure of the Directorate General, in line with proposals.  A study was
produced proposing two standard types of Office; Standard I, with a maximum of
17 staff members, and Standard II, with a maximum of 8. At regional level, the
functions of the various staff members were clearly defined. Computer hardware
was purchased, and training was provided in their operation and in the use of
CFP programs. The communication network serving the Directorate General and
the Regional Offices was modernized through the purchase of fax equipment and
PCs connected to the central unit via modems. Telephone communications were
modernized through the purchase of a switchboard adapted to CFP's current needs
and equipped with technologically advanced features, thus enhancing the
Corporation's communications capability.
4.       As part of this institutional upgrading, and as part of CFP's efforts
to provide satisfactory services for both its internal clients (i.e., its
staff) and its external clients, it obtained approval from the Board to acquire
a new computer, together with the necessary applications for managing its
portfolio,  accounts  and term certificates  of deposit.    It is therefore
anticipated that, in the medium term, it will be able to provide timely and
improved data to the users in the various fields. Thus, the Regional Offices
will be relieved of the burden of performing processes manually and will have
more time to devote to marketing.
£1 Part I of the PCR already describes this section of the CFP Report.
9I Part III of the PCR already describes this sections of the CFP Report.



- 26 -
5.       Credit Processing.  CFP's Credit Manual was restructured.  On-site
training in the new subloan plan was provided for analysts at the Regional
Offices. The procedures for the new credit system were designed and imple-
mented. The functions of the decision-making bodies were increased. Permanent
arrangements were made for the representation of the Directorate General on the
Credit Committees of the Barranquilla, Medellin, Cali, Bogot& and Bucaramanga
Regional Offices.   For applications for amounts exceeding Col$80 million,
operators of industries are permitted to hire external advisors for the
preparation of subloan studies.   The Unitary Microenterprise Committee was
formed (with representatives from the National Guarantee Fund, National
Planning, various foundations and CFP) in order to streamline subloan studies
and disbursements.
6.       Supervision.  Circular 2053 of the Banking Superintendency requires
the agencies it supervises to classify subloans according to their status as
of March 31 and September 30 each year. These classifications are used to make
adjustments to reserves, and to this end supervision inspections. must be made
in all enterprises with disbursed subloans exceeding the equivalent of 300
times the minimum monthly wage at the rates current as of the approval dates.
This practice was introduced in the second half of 1989.
7.       In addition, all subloans from the FFI line of credit are inspected
to ensure that they comply with the investment plans. As a complement, further
inspections are made of operations for which payments are overdue, so that
these can be restructured, portfolios can be adjusted or, if necessary, the
debts can be collected through recourse to the courts. In 1990, about 1,500
subloans fell into this category, and were made subject to supervision
inspections.
8.       Portfolio.  Over the last five years, CFP has adopted various measures
to counteract the deterioration of its portfolio. As a result of firm action
coordinated by the Directorate General, the indicators for the last two years
have been lower than those for 1982, when overdue payments totaled 12.21.
Consequently, although the figure as of December 1988 was 162, concerted
efforts to recover these debts reduced the level to 10.2% in 1989 and 11.8% in
1990.
9.       The work of the Portfolio Directorate in supporting the recovery
efforts of the Regional Offices has been complemented by visits by the agency's
lawyers, and this has helped solve difficult cases, bringing about the
restructuring of subloans and, in many cases, settlements involving the
surrender of goods belonging to the debtors. From 1990, these recoveries have
been complemented by the establishment of a special lawyers' group. This has
engaged in ongoing legal proceedings, with excellent results.  In 1991, the
"Assets Recovery Unit" was formed.   This is directly responsible to CFP's
Secretariat General and coordinates all aspects of the collection of debts that
have been overdue for 180 days or more.
10.      The strategic plan for 1991 covers activities ranging from control and
daily monitoring, agreements with firms specializing in debt recovery,
emergency plans for Regional Offices facing rates of overdue payments, and the
implementation of the Portfolio Manual, to the setting for each Office of a
maximum level of overdue payments (to be achieved by December 1991).



- 27 -
11.      Mobilizing Domestic Resources.  After an internal study, in 1986 CFP
launched a mechanism for mobilizing resources known as the CDT (Certificado de
Dep6sito a T6rmlno: "Term Certificate of Deposit"), which was authorized by
the regulations governing financial corporations. The amount obtained to date
(Col$3.2 billion) has revealed the need for marketing policies capable of
achieving levels similar to those of other agencies in the system.
12.      To this end, a unit specializing in resource mobilization has been
established in the recently formed Office of the Vice President for Commercial
Affairs and Systems.   This will conduct the necessary studies so that the
agency can offer new products to its clients, backed by its current debt
carrying capacity and the fact that its assets are owned by the Government and
by state-controlled organizations.
13.      Information System.  The purchase of a Wang BS-100 computer enabled
CFP to reorganize most of its operations. Together with the installation of
PCs in the Regional Offices for recording operations and appraising projects,
and the provision of training seminars, this made it possible to streamline
some of CFP's processes and the gathering of data.   The Regional Offices'
personal computers were connected via modem to the Directorate General, so that
i4formation on daily movements in the Regional Offices could be transmitted.
TLis has also made it possible to increase the efficiency and improve the
quality of data. In addition, the Integrated Information System was designed,
enabling data to be gathered on a decentralized basis for subsequent validation
and consolidation at the Directorate General.
14.      Nevertheless,  the  inflexibility  of  some  of  the  applications,
especially as regards portfolio operations, together with the frequent changes
in development lines of credit, continue to be an obstacle to the timely
production of financial statements. In current circumstances, CFP must adapt
to the new applications that have appeared on the market, and make provision
for the purchase of hardware with a larger capacity and scope. To this end,
the Board has given approval -- and internal selection processes have been
followed -- for the purchase of an IBM computer with accounting, portfolio
management and resource mobilization applications (CDTs and bonds).   It is
anticipated that in the medium term this will solve the data problems.
15.      Technical Assistance.  Institutional meetings of representatives of
CFP, the National Vocational Training Organization (SENA), National Planning
Department, SSI producer association (Acopi), External Commerce Institute
(INCOMEX), Export Promotioin Organization (PROEXPO), National Guarantee Fund
(FNG) and the Chamber of Commerce have produced a document recommending the
establishment of a Comit6 Ejectivo Nacional de Asistencla Tecnica Integral para
la Pequenia y Medians Industria Manufacturera (National Executive Committee for
Overall Technical Assistance to Small and Medium-Sized Manufacturing Indus-
tries). The Committee was established and ite responsibilities were defined
under the Ministry of Economic Development's Resolution No. 371 of April 23,
1987.   Regional Committees were then also constituted,  and have been in
constant operation in most of CFP's Offices. Their training sessions have been
well attended by representatives of microenterprises and small and medium-sized
enterprises.
16.      On December 21,  1988,  the National Congress  issued Law No.  78
containing provisions for the development of microenterprises and small and



- 28 -
medium-sized industries. It also established the Fondo de Asistencds T6cnlca
y Desarrollo Tecnol6gico de la Microempresa y la Pequena y Medians Industria
(the Technical Assistance and Technological Development Fund for Microenter-
prises and Small and Medium-Sized Industries), to be managed by CFP with an
annual appropriation from the national budget. For 1991, the Government has
provided Col$100 million. Under this same Law, SENA will allocate 2% of its
annual budget to microenterprise programs, the establishment of enterprises,
and overall technical assistance to small and medium-sized industries.  For
microenterprises, SENA and foundation training has been provided, this being
a prerequisite for access to CFP credit.
2.4 Evaluation of Performance
17.      The World Bank lines of credit that CFP received via Banco de la
RepCblica served to complement its domestic resources and enabled it to plan
an increase in its activities for supporting small and medium-sized enter-
prises. The Project entailed the use of the new mechanism known as the
"Special Account," and this helped streamline disbursements to a considerable
degree.
18.      In addition,  the free  limit mechanism  (allowing subloans to be
approved and issued before being submitted to the World Bank for subsequent
approval) operated efficiently.  Combined with the Special Account, it made the
disbursement process very dynamic. At the same time, because loan periods and
periods of grace were longer than those provided by the domestic development
lines of credit available during the implementation of Project 2464-CO, and
because financing could be provided for the purchase of used machinery, funds
could be applied more quickly, with the result that all were committed by the
first half of 1987.



- 29 
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan    Year of
Loan Title              Amount   Approval               Status
Small-Scale Industry          5.5       1975      Fully disbursed and repaid;
PPAR: Report No. 2645,
dated August 30, 1979.
2nd Small-Scale Industry    15.0        1977      Fully disbursed; PCR:
Report No. 4461, dated
April 27, 1983.
3rd Small-Scale Industry    32.0        1980      Fully disbursed; PCR:
Report No. 6469, dated
October 31, 1986.
Sth Small-Scale Industry    80.0        1989      Ongoing.
Sources LAC Files.
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date
Item                           Planned                  Actual
Preparation                            --              08/24/83-09/07/83
Appraisal Mission                    11/83              11/07/83-11/25183
Loan Negotiations                  04/02/84            05/07/84-05/11/84
Board Approval                     06/28/84                 07/10/84
Loan Signature                         --                   09/21/84
Loan Effectiveness                  12/20/84                02/01/85
Loan Completion                    03/01/89                  08/89
Loan Closing                        12/31/88                12/31/88
Source: LAC Files.



- 30 -
Table 3: Estimated and Actual Disbursements
ESTIMATE                              ACTUAL
Cumul.                                Cumul.
Date                     Amount            Date                 Amount
(UMSmill)                             (US$mill)
FY 1985
31-Mar-85                    4.1           31-Mar-85              4.08
30-Jun-85                      6           30-Jun-85              6.88
30-Sep-85                      7           30-Sep-85              9.59
31-Dec-85                    8.5           31-Dec-85             11.59
pY 1986
31-Mar-86                   11.5           31-Mar-86             16.27
30-Jun-86                     13           30-Jun-86             17.89
30-Sep-86                     18           30-Sep-86             21.43
31-Dec-86                     21           31-Dec-86             24.09
FY 1987
31-Mar-87                     23           31-Mar-87             27.15
30-Jun-87                     28           30-Jun-87             32.64
30-Sep-87                     30           30-Sep-87             33.76
31-Dec-87                     32           31-Dec-87             36.72
FY 1988
31-Mar-88                     34           31-Mar-88             37.45
30-Jun-88                     36           30-Jun-88             37.80
30-Sep-88                     38           30-Sep-88             37.99,,
31-Dec-88                     40           31-Dec-88             38.23
FY 1989
30-Jan-89             38.42
14-Mar-89             38.75
07-Aug-89             38.74
TOTAL DISBURSEENT             40                                 38.74
Amount Disbursed as        96.86Z
Z of Total
Cancellations               1.26
Source: LAC Files.



Table 4.: Project Costa and Financing
CUSS WO6)
Construe.     I-p. Mach.  Ip. Mach.  Local Mach.   Worlking    Tech. Asst.  Other          TOTAL        X of Total
(Direct)    (Indirect)                 Capital
Enterprise                        2,243.16      4,093.30      218.71      2,493.33   11,627.63          4.01    1,340.17    22,62a.28        31.69:
Local Financlal Institutions        316.76        496.32         7.95       244.76       973.71         6.00       72.65     2,112.10         2.98X
Other Sourco                       762.84        970.48       80.04        427.96    4,787.84         94.87      388.63    7,610.65         16.66X
World Bank                        6,583.76     16,258.46     1,227.04     9,522.64    5,760.97         68.57      764.67   39,181.80         66.32S
TOTAL                             9,911.46    20,818.66      1,634.55    12,688.67   23,166.15         167.46    2,664.12   70,824.84       166.610
X Of Total                           13.99X        29.391       2.17X        17.92%       32.69x        0.22X       3.62:      166.661
Source: UC Files; CFP.



- 32 -
TABLE 5: PROJECT RESULTS
Direct Benefits                       Sar Target        Actual
1.  Number of SSI subprojects             1500               2211
of which capacity expansion           1125               1592
High export orientation                150                 44
New Enterprise                         225                575
2.  Employment Creation of which         f7500-
; 8500
direct                               5500-               8000
i6500
indirect                              2000



Table 6:
Sa11-scale Industry IT Loan 2464-CO
Compliewce with Hajor Loam Conditions
Loa Agrement                                                      Hot    Dot Met                   Comments
Section 4.01 la) U   haUll establieh every slx month  the rate    a                         Rates over Project LUplenentation Met al of
of lnterot appicable to each aublose.                                                       attdainig posdtive Tel rates. S,.Wer, a1 to
have varlable rates Lncresse progressively did not
occur until and of 1937 dubs variable portio was
icereased from 151 to 1502.
tectims 4.032  33 shall submit to the Bank am audit report        a
oo te Special Aeeem_t by May I of each year, and fuorlh
to the BDk monthly certlfied stat_sts of sueh account.
Project Agrenant
Sectlo 2.01s  (e) CVP lhall carry cnt the programs and           a
*tudies Included In Part 3 of the Prject In a tilaly
*saemr *i In accordaue with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Dan.  arat a of the  roject includes.
(1) A prograw to strengthe  the lnstltntonl and
*rgepisational capablitiLes of CJP.
12) A stdy ma the feaelbllty for Crt of mobilizig
usrhet reoonrces.
133 A technical assistane progro_ for Investment
Kotarprises at tbh regional level.
Sectio  2.0t  CVc commitmn t to put into effect revised a
opetratiel policies for Its regional offiles "ad
heaqnaters.
Sectim 3.01 Ib)s CY?** emiltment to carry out the Action          x
*0
Sectio  3.01*  Ie) The lealg targets set forth 1   e                                                                                       1- 
Actim tProgt_ shall be adjusted ansually by agreemnst vith                                                                                 o
the cvermeet, the Dak, U and CRY, to reflect th er
prevailing demrd for CIP leading durlg the preceding
twelve- mth period.



Sectlon 3.02,  CFV  haell during the yeere 1984 through 1987         x
lit Its direct loading to *Icro-enterpriees, to an
aggregate m oet act exceeding 22 of the total lendiog                                          Generally not - 1984 direct lending, however, wae 4.4t.
program of Cl? during the Immediately preceding calender
year.
3.03 (a) CV? to limit lending for Goveriment programs
*atrusted to CIP to 2.51 of total lending.                                                     Reached 3.31 In 1984 and rose to about 51 in 1986.
Section 4.02.  (b)  Crr shall furnish to the Benk by May I
of *ech year audited flnencial statenents.
Sectlon 4.03.  CFr shall saintain a debtlequity ratio of
leee tbah  6,1.                                                                                ?ion-compliance over 1985-S8.
Section 4.06.  Administrative expeneeslaverage total assets                  x
and ra:io of leee tban 6.71 in 194U1 6.51 In 19851 and 6.02                                     Ron-compliance over 1984-86
In 1936 end ooavrde.
Guarantee Agre ent
Section 3.03,  The Govermnent shall make a capital                           x
contribution to 1l? equivalent to the resources required by                                     Ron-compliance over 1985-88.
C?P in eack cal2adar year to attain the lendlng targets set
forth ia the Action Progrm and to m*intel a debtlequity
ratlo of 6s1. The capitol contribution shall be detersined
by the 6owermemt sot later than Seutenber 30 In each year
(io respect of capltal contribution to be made during the
Imlmiately succeeding calender year) after consultation
with the Dan, U "A  CV.
Scrs,  [AC nile.
0r
0
N 
0e 
m@t'
N



- 35 -
Table 7: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                     Number of Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                                   43.7
Appraisal through                                                     5.3
Board Approval
Supervision                                                         66.7
TOTAL                                                              115.7
B. Missions
Stage of                                                    Number of        Number of
Project Cycle               Arrival Date of Mission          Mission Days      Staff on
in Country        Mission
Preparation Thro.           August 29, 1983                            42              3
Board Approval              October 26, 1983 -                         51              3
Supervision                 February 1, 1984                           12              I
November, 1984
Hay 5, 1985                                12              1
September 23, 1985                         14              1
February 13, 1986                           8
July, 1986
October 26, 1986                           28              3
October 2, 1988                             9              I
August 7, 1989                             10              I
TOTAL NUMBER OF STAFF DAYS IN COUNTRY                                 186
Sources Dates based on memorandums in LAC files and loan documents.



