Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFiICAL USE ONLY
Lk). -2-cj- C
Report No. 4929b-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLDMBIA
FOW-RTh SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 14, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This domment has itrstrcted bstibution and ny  be ued byr recipients only in the performnce of
ttbi'r olicial dufies. Its contents way not otherwrise be disclosed witbout World Bak satborlzstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 31, 1984)
Currency Unit     =     Colombian Peso
US$1              =     Col$98.47
Col$1             =     US$0.0102
ACRONYMS
ACOPI        - Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales
(Colombian Association of Small-Scale Industrialists)
BCE          - Banco Central Hipotecario (Housing Bank)
BR           - Banco de la Republica (Colombia's Central Bank)
CA             Consejo Asesor de la Politica para la Pequena y Mediana
Industria (Advisory Council for Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry)
CAJA         - Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Agricultural,
Industrial and Mining Bank)
CAVIs        - Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings and Loan
Associations)
CDT          - Certificado de Deposito a Termino (Term Desposit Certificate)
CESO         - Canadian Executive Service Overseas
CFCs         - Companias de Financiamiento Comercial (Trade Finance
Companies)
CFP          - Corporacion Financiera Popular
COLCIENCIAS  - Fondo Colombiano de Investigaciones Cientificas y Proyectos
Especiales (Colombian Fund for Scientific Research and
Special Projects)
DANE         - Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
(National Department of Statistics)
DFC          - Development Finance Company
DNP          - Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
FEDESARROLLO - Fundacion para la Educacion Superior y Desarrollo
(Foundation for Higher Education and Development)
FFI          - Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
FICITEC      - Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecrologica (Foundation for the Development of Scientific
and Technological Research)
FINANCIACOOP - Instituto de Financiamiento y Desarrollo Cooperativo
(Institute for Financing and Development of Cooperatives)
FIP          - Fondo de Inversiones Privadas (Private Investment Fund)
FNG          - Fondo Nacional de Garantia (National Guarantee Fund)
IDB          - Inter-American Development Bank
IFI          - Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Development
Institute)
IIT          - Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (Institute of
Technological Research)
KfW          - Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO      - Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
RAB          - Junta Asesora Regional (Regional Advisory Board)
SENA         - Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Vocational Training
Organization)
SIP          - Secretaria de Integracion Popular de la Presidencia de la
Republica (Secretariat of Popular Integration of the
Presidency of the Republic)
SKI          - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
SSI          - Small-Scale Industry
UNUP         - United Nations Development Program
UNIDO        - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID        - United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIk
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................................   (I)
I.   SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) IN COLOMBIA . .........       1
A.   The Industrial Sector Framework ...........se. ..........-.     I
B.   Structure and Characteriatics ...........................       2
C.   Growth and Development Constraints ............. .......        3
D.   Government Objectives and Policies        .....................  3
II.  FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SKI ...................    4
A.   Industrial Credit ....     ..................................    4
B.   SMI Financing  ....*         ....................................    5
C.   Technical Assistance to SKI . ..........    ............. ...    6
III. CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR ....................        ....      7
A.   Basic Structure        7........................................
B.   Systems and Procedures  *        ............................    9
C.   Operations ..........   11
D.   Resources ..................................    14
E.   Financial Position, Results and Projections    ............    15
IV* THE PROJECT                                                          19
A.   Experience Under Previous Bank Projects ................       19
B.   Project Objectives .......... ....00.00.00 ... ...........   21
C.   Project Cost and Financing .............................   22
D.   Project Components .....................................   23
E.   Procurement and Disbursement............. ................  25
F.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ...... ...............    27
G.   Benefits and Risks  *****.*..............................   27
Vs  RECOMMENDATIONS *******..........*********** *..............   28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia during November 1983. The mission comprised Messrs. Alonso, Voljc,
and Wogart and Ms. Press (all LCPI2).
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipents only in the perfonnanc of
their official duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be disckoed without World Bank authorizaton



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Arnex 1: Comparison of Features of the Past and Proposed Small-Scale
Industry Loans.
Annex 2:  Institutional Characteristics of Financial and Technical Assistance
to SNI.
Annex 3:  Supporting Tables and Charts.
T-1  Industrial Development and its Determinants 1970-82.
T-2  Distribution of Employment According to Size of Enterprise.
T-3  Establishments, Employment, Value Added of SMI, 1976-81.
T-4  SMI's Participation in Manufacturing Sector and Subsectoral Share.
T-5  Capital and Labor Productivity of SMI, 1976 and 1980.
T-6  Remuneration in Manufacturing, 1972-80.
T-7  Sources and Uses of Investment Financing, 1978-82.
T-8  Institutional Credit to SMI, 1970-81
T-9  Fondo Financiero Industrial Approvals, 1969-1982.
T-10 Share of Principal Intermediaries in FFI Approvals, 1970-82.
Tables on Corporacion Financiera Popular
T-11 Distribution of Ownership, 1979-83.
T-12 List of Board of Directors and Alternates as of November 1, 1983.
T-13 Organization Chart as of November 1, 1983.
T-14 Number of Staff at Beadquarters and in the Regional Offices,
1979-83.
T-15 Summary of Supervision Activities, 1979-83.
T-16 Analysis of Loan Approvals, 1979-83.
T-17 Principal Characteristics of Bank Financed Subloans, 1976-83.
T-18 Balance Sheets as of December 31, for the Period 1970-83.
T-19 Income Statement, 1970-83.
T-20 Sources and Applications of Funds, 1980-83.
T-21 Inflow of Funds, 1973-83.
T-22 Summary of Resource Position as of June 30, 1983.
T-23 Key Financial Indicators, 1972-82.
T-24 Aging of Arrears, 1979-83.
T-25 Administrative Expenditures, 1979-82.
T-26 Lending Rates as of November 1, 1983.
T-27 Average Subproject Impact - Survey I.
T-28 Average Subproject Impact - Survey II.
T-29 Employment Generation and its Costs for an Average Subborrower.
T-30 Sales and Productivity Growth in an Average Subborrower.
T-31 Lending Program, 1984-87.
T-32 Balance Sheet Projections, 1984-87.
T-33 Projected Sources and Applications of Funds, 1984-87.
~ -   T-34 Statement of Income and Expenditures, 1984-87.
T-35 Key Financial Indicators, 1984-87.
,Annex 4: Estimated Quarterly DisbuLsement Schedule for the Bank Loan.
Annex 5:  Related Documents Available in the Project File.                        -
MAP



- iII -
Estimated Disbursements:           (US$ millions)
IBRD      FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual       2.0     7.2    18.0    8.4    4.4
Cumulative   2.0     9.2    27.2   35.6   40.0
Rate of Return:  The financial rates of return on the subprojects are
expected to average about 15S and be no lees than 12Z.
The economic rates of return are, bowever, likely to be
higher, primarily because prices of input saterials are
somewhat Inflated as a result of the protectlon Involved
while, on the other hand, most suall-scale industry products
are openly traded so that market prices reflect economic
values. As a norm, therefore, the typical products of
small-scale industries have lower protection rates than the
corresponding inputs.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4929b-CO, dated June 14, 1984.



COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Banco de la Republica (BR)
Guarantor:      Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:    Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
Amount:         US$40 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee
of US$99,751.
Terms:          17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending       Banco de la Republica would relend the proceeds of the loan
Terms:          to CFP in pesos, and CFP would make service payments to Banco
de la Republica whenever this shall be required to meet
service payments on the Bank's loan. Any net losses to Banco
de la Republica as a result of covering the foreign exchange
risk would be charged by Banco de la Republica to the Govern-
ment's Foreign Exchange Special Account administered by Banco
de la Republica.
Banco de la Republica would charge interest: (i) on the
credit component of the project, at rates 4.5 or 5 percentage
points lower than the interest rates on subloans made by CFP
for investment projects located, respectively, in the major
metropolitan areas or outside these areas; and (ii) on the
technical assistance component of the project, at 12% per
annum.
CFP would on-lend the proceeds of the loan for 4 to 10 years,
including 1 to 3 years of grace, at a rate representing the
weighted average of a variable and a fixed interest rate as
follows: for each sub-loan, 15% of the principal would bear
interest at the rate payable on 90-day certificates of
deposit plus 3 percentage points, and 852 of the principal
would bear interest at a fixed rate to be agreed semiannually
with the Bank (initially 262 p.a. for subprojects in the
metropolitan areas and 24Z p.a. outside the larger centres)
and established by Banco de la Republica. At the end of the
first full year of operation of the line (December 1985) BR,
CFP and the Bank would review the variable/fixed proportions
of the interest rates with a view to increasing to 30% the
portion of the principal of each sub-loan subject to variable



- ii -
interest rates, thus reducing commensurately the portion
under fixed rates. The new percentages would apply to
sub-loans approved after January 1, 1986. A slilar review
12 months thereafter would seek to increase further the
proportion of market-deteruined rates in the weighted average
interest rates of the sub-loans.
Project        The proposed project would consist of the provision of: (a)
Description:   medium- and long-term credit through CFP to small and
medium-scale industries for fixed investment and permanent
working capital; and (b) technical assistance to CFP and
small scale industriallsts.
Project Risks: Even though the project involves no special risks,
Insufficient Government equity contributions to CFP, delays
in strenthening CFP's regional offices, slower than expected
recovery of small-scale industry, and fluctuations in
availability of local working capital might affect project
implementation. However, agreements reached with the
Government regarding increases to CFP's equity base, together
with the Action Program to be carried out bs CFP In close
collaboration with the Bank, should help ensure achievement
of project objectives.
Estimated Cost:1/
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign  Total
Construction and installation            8.9       2.2      11.1
Imported mchinery (CIF)                   -        7.5       7.5
Imported machinery acquired locally     10.6      13.7      24.3
Locally anufactured mchinery            13.2       6.1      19.3
Working capital                         45.6       5.0      50.6
Technical assistance                     0.7       0.4       1.1
Front-end fee                                      0.1       0.1
79.0      35.0    114.0
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreign   Total      z
CFP                           4.5        -        4.5       4
Enterprises                  30.5        -       30.5      27
Otber local sources          39.0        -       39.0      34
IBRD                          5.0       35.0    40.0 a/  35
79.0      35.0   114.0    100
a/ Includes capitalized front-end fee of US$99,751.
1/ Taking account of Bank estimates of Inflation and peso depreciation, as
of January 1984.



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I.   SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) IN COLOMBIA
A.  The Industrial Sector Framework
1.01      Colombia's manufacturing sector has expanded rapidly over the past
two decades. As a result, the share of manufacturing in GDP rose from 16% in
1960-1964 to about 22% in 1980-1982. However, growth rates for the sector
have been quite variable, achieving an average of 8.6% in 1967-1974,
decelerating to 5.2% in 1974-1978, and falling to an average of only 1% in
1978-1982. During the last 20 years, the structure of the sector has changed
considerably, with consumer goods declining from about four-fifths to
one-half of the total and intermediate goods increasing to account for about
40% in 1982. Capital goods make up the remaining 10% in total production.
However, as output and employment growth declined in the last few years, con-
sumer goods industries once again grew in importance relative to industries
producing intermediate and capital goods.
1.02      Policies favoring import substitution in the 1950s and 1960s,
followed by export promotion measures in 1967, stimulated the growth of the
manufacturing sector. While less important in absolute terms than the
expansion of internal demand, the dynamic growth of manufactured exports was
the principal impetus for the rise in industrial output and employment
between 1967 and 1974. After rapid export development in the early 1970s,
the Colombian industrial sector catered again to the domestic market during
the latter part of the last decade, mainly because of the spillover from the
boom in traditional exports and an overvalued exchange rate (Table 1).
However, during the last few years, competition from contraband, weakened
domestic and international demand, lower international prices for major
agricultural exports, and substantial devaluations by Colombia's most
important Latin American trading partners and export competitors have
resulted in decreasing industrial production and exports.
1.03      Reacting to the recession abroad and at home, the Government
reverted to protection through shifting a large share of imports from free to
previous licenses and increasing external tariffs. At the same time,
incentives to exporters have been strengthened, first, through increased tax
rebates for exports and, in 1983, through the acceleration of the rate of
devaluation. The objective of the export-oriented strategy is to stimulate
production in the industrial and agricultural sectors. While most small- and



- 2 -
medium-scale industries (SMIs) 1/ do not export directly, they are expected
to benefit indirectly, especially from the expansion in agricultural
activities. If the current export incentive system can be maintained in the
next two years, export competitiveness of the Colombian industrial sector
should be restored in 1985, allowing for phasing out of most of the import
licenses by the second half of the 1980s. The authorities have also
initiated a strategy of promoting the construction industry as an additional
help to stimulate economic recovery and to generate industrial growth and
employment. The Government also intends to increase the share of capital
goods industries in manufacturing value added. Again, SMIs from several
subsectors should benefit from the above-mentioned policies. However, with
the expected recovery of the industrial sector, a renewed foreign exchange
bottleneck (characterized by a current account deficit of US$2.2 billion and
considerable capital flight in 1983) is likely to persist in the near
future.
B.   Structure and Characteristics
1.04     The SMI subsector plays a significant role in Colombia's industrial
development process, employing about two-fifths of the industrial labor force
and producing close to one-fourth of manufacturing value added. Most
important is its impact upon employment generation. Recent studies have
shown that, compared with large-scale manufacturing, SMIs have generated up
to about three tim,es as many jobs per peso of invested capital. They also
absorb a higher share of unskilled workers than do large enterprises. At the
same time, they also seem to use capital as effectively as larger firms
(Table 5). Two further characteristics of SMls are their lesser dependence
upon imported inputs and the fact that they are much more evenly distributed
throughout the country than industry as a whole. SMIs' economic importance,
particularly in smaller centers, is, in part, attributable to the relatively
high transportation costs and the distinct regionalization of markets in
Colombia. Finally, SMIs provide a productive outlet for private savings.
These firms are self-financed to a much greater degree than large industry,
partly because of their more limited access to funds from the organized
financial system. Since 1978, over 50% of the total financing to SMIs came
from the small industrialists' own resources, and 29% from commercial
sources, compared with 25% and 48%, respectively, for industry as a whole
(Table 7).
1/   Colombia does not have a single official definition for SMI.  The
National Department of Statistics (DANE) defined SKIs, for purposes of
data collection and tabulation, as firms with 5-99 workers, and small-
scale enterprises (SSI), as Eirms with 5-49 workers. With the rise of
micro-enterprises, DANE has recently increased the minimum number of
workers for SSIs from 5 to 10. Currently, firms with total assets of
less than Col$ 60 millicn (some US$675,000 equivalent), regardless of
the number of workers, qualify as SMIs for loans from the Fondo
Financiero Industrial (FFI) and Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP).



-3-
C.   Growth and Development Constraints
1.05      Available statistics indicate that, during the mid-1970s, SMIs'
output grew about 6.6% p.a. in real terms as compared to 5.2% for the manu-
facturing sector as a whole. As in the rest of the industrial sector, SMI
growth rates have been declining since 1980, with a sales growth of only 1.3%
reported for 1982. In spite of the fact that their exports grew faster than
those of larger-sized firms between 1978 and 1981, SMIs, on the average,
exported less than 2.5% of their output. Moreover, their exports decreased
sharply in 1982, as large devaluations in Venezuela and Ecuador reversed
trade flows. On the other hand, employment in the SMI subsector was still
growing as recently as 1982, when most of the larger firms had to dismiss
workers.
1.06       The relatively satisfactory performance of the SMI subsector has
been achieved despite some difficulties that still face SMIs, such as limited
access to credit, insecure supplies of raw materials, limited technical
assistance, and inappropriate technology/management systems. Inadequate
access to institutional credit has been a consistent constraint to SMIs'
development. By virtue of their characteristics and geographical dispersion,
SMIs frequently lack information concerning available sources of institu-
tional finance. This problem is compounded by reluctance on the part of
commercial banks and private DFCs to lend to small industry, which may be a
result of the higher risks and administrative costs of such lending and the
low intermediation margins offered under the Central Bank's (BR) rediscount-
ing facility.
D.   Government Objectives and Policies
1.07      Government industrial policies have focused on the sector as a
whole without differentiating between SMIs and larger enterprises. Neverthe-
less, both general industrial and macro-economic policies have affected SMIs
less than larger enterprises because of the former's greater self-sufficiency
and larger involvement in the informal part of the Colombian economy. Speci-
fic Government policies toward small- and medium-scale industry have not been
clearly defined or well coordinated, except for the authorities' support to
CFP and other official sources of SMI financing as well as to a few institu-
tions providing technical assistance to SMIs. This situation, however, has
changed recently, partially as a result of the Bank dialogue with the Govern-
ment over the past years, with support coming from both a more coordinated
effort by the authorities to design specific policies for SMIs and from
recently announced policies in such fields as the capital goods industry and
assembly operations, which are expected to benefit SMIs. A more coordinated
policy approach to address the specific needs of SMIs is being encouraged
further. The Advisory Council for Small and Medium Industry (CA) has been
established, consisting of upper level representatives of private and public
sector organizations concerned with SMIs, such as the Ministry of Economic
Development, the National Planning Department (DNP), the National Training
Service Organization (SENA), Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), the Export
Promotior. Fund (PROEXPO), the Industrial Development Institute (IFI), the
National Guarantee Fund (FNG), the Secretariat of Popular Integration of the
?rmsidency of the Republic (SIP), and the Colombian Association of Small-
Scale Industrialists (ACOPI). CA is currently developing, through its work-



- 4 -
ing groups and the Industrial Sector Planning Division of the Ministry of
Economic Development which serves as CA's technical secretariat, guidelines
for financial and technical assistance to the SMI subsector, including a
revised definition of SMIs2/.  In addition, the impact on SMIs of policies
regarding subcontracting, zovernment procurement, and industrial parks, as
well as five SMI subsectors (food, printing, metal-mechanics, plastics and
garments) will be analyzed, under CA coordination, for policy formulation
purposes.  Because of their significant impact upon employment, the Govern-
ment also intends to assume a leading role in a program to assist very small
firms from the informal sector of the economy (so called "micro-
enterprises"), a program which has been carried out successfully by private
sector foundations (para. 3.14).
1.08      According to DNP's projections, which are made taking into account
the Government policies discussed in paragraph 1.03, the Colombian industrial
sector is expected to recover gradually, achieving estimated growth rates of
4% p.a. in real terms between 1984 and 1987. Once the overall industrial
growth in Colombia resumes its earlier pace, expansion of SMIs may proceed
even faster if the experience of the 1970s is repeated. To raise the sub-
sector's contribution to employment and to value added, the coordinated
efforts of both the private and public sectors would have to be strengthened
further, and additional financial resources and technical assistance services
would have to be mobilized. The proposed project would assist the Government
in its efforts to increase the availability of term credit and technical
assistance to small-scale industrial enterprises.
II. FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI
A. Industrial Credit3/
2.01      Colombia has a relatively well-developed and diversified financial
sector comprising the Central Bank (Banco de la Republica - BR), about 25
coumercial banks and 25 corporaciones financieras (DFCs-investment banks), a
central mortgage bank (Banco Central Hipotecario--BCH), ten savings and loan
associations (Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda--CAVIs), nearly 40 trade
finance companies (Companias de Financiamiento Comercial--CFCs), more than 70
insurance companies, several mutual funds and two stock exchanges (at Bogota
and Medellin). The commercial banks have the largest branch network, with
more than 1,800 offices distributed throughout Colombia, followed by the
CAVIs (400 branch offices in total), BCH (75 offices) and CFs (over 100
branch offices). Commercial banks represent the most important segment,
accounting for more than one-third of the total outstanding credit of the
institutionalized financial system in recent years.
2/   In principle, the definition of SMIs under preparation would include
three criteria: fixed asset size, sales value and number of employees.
3/   Report No. 4274-Co, The Colombian Investment Banking System and Related
Financial Sector Issues, dated August 1, 1983, presents detailed
information about Colombia's financial sector.



-5-
2.02      Direct lending by banks and DFCs is supplemented by rediscounting
funds of BR funded in part out of the reserve requirements of the banking
system. For industry, the mDst important of these funds are: (a) the
Industrial Financing Fund (FFI), which rediscounts loans made by commercial
banks and financieras to small- and medium-scale industrial firms; (b) the
Private Investment Fund (FIP), which rediscounts loans for firms larger than
those covered by FFI; and (c) the Export Promotion Fund (PROEXPO), which
provides credit to non-traditional export activities (mostly industry), using
mainly funds derived from a 5% import tax. The Caja Agraria (state-owned
Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Bank), once a significant source of
institutional credit to SSI, now offers term financing to only the smallest
agro-industrial firms.4/ (Table 8).
B. SMI Financing
2.03      Because of SKI's traditional lack of ready collateral and the high
cost of SMI subloan processing, the sector has considerable difficulty in
gaining access to conventional commercial sources of financing, particularly
for medium- and long-term purposes. Consequently, the bulk of the SMI loar.
portfolio of commercial banks and financieras is now financed by FFI or other
special credit lines. Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), as the
Government specialized SMI lending institution, provides credit for fixed
investment and working capital. It accounts for some 30X of total SMI
credit, thus providing the bulk of the medium- and long-term credit to SKIs
(paras. 3.11, 3.30-31, and 4.03). However, while, in aggregate, the amount
of public funds available for lending to SKI has increased in real terms
since 1974, it has, in the past, been subject to fluctuations that have not
always been conducive to the steady institutional development of SMI
lenders. Availability of official funds for SMI financing has only recently
become more stable. Access of SSIs and micro-enterprises to commercial
credit has traditionally also been constrained by their inability to provide
sufficient collateral. The Government has, therefore, recently established a
National Guarantee Fund (FNG) which should help to alleviate this problem by
providing guarantees.
2.04      There are considerable variations in the cost of industrial
credit. Most lending rates in the formal financial market were liberalized
in 1980, but effective rates have remained high in real terms (e.g., 17Z
p.a. for commercial bank and DFC loans in 1982), mainly because of distor-
tions of the financial sector and the overvalued exchange rate. Medium- to
long-ternm rates from FFI and CFP ranged from 18% to 26% p.a. in nominal terms
(Table 26), with most loars at about 2% p.a. in real terms in 1982. During
1983, CFP and FFI rates were maintained unchanged in nominal terms, thus
yielding higher real rates as inflation decliced. In December 1983. the
Monetary Board approved a new interest-rate system for FFI loans, designed to
further expose SKI borrowers to free-market interest rates. Instead of bear-
ing a fixed interest rate, individual subloan3 made by intermediaries to
sub-borrowers now bear a fixed rate on the portion redlscounted with FFI,
with the remainder bearirg a rate of 3 points above the floating 90-day
4    Anntlex 2 includes further details on institutions providing official
credit to SKI.



- 6 -
certificate of deposit (CDT) rate. A similar rate structure will be used for
CFP lending rates under the proposed loan (para. 4.12). It is expected that
this arrangement will introduce SMIs to receiving credit at interest rates
closer to prevailing commercial rates and that commercial banks and private
DFCs may thus find lending to SNIs more attractive as a result of the in-
creased intermediation margins available to them.
C. Technical Assistance to SMI
2.05      Provision of technical assistance to SMIs remains rather weak and
poorly coordinated compared to the financial assistance.  In total, up to
some 700-800 SMIs are receiving some kind of technical assistance each year
from the various institutions discussed below. These firms represent less
than 5% of the total population of SKIs in Colombia.  Moreover, technical
assistance services have been largely fragmented, with little cooperation
among institutions at the regional level, and no joint focus or definition of
priorities despite the existence of various cooperation agreements at the
national level, in particular between the Corporacion Financiera Popular
(CFP) and most of the below-mentioned technical assistance institutions. To
some exteut, this problem reflects the difficulty of determining, at the
national level, an appropriate program to be followed in all regions given
the diversity of activities engaged in, and the problems faced, by small-
scale industry in different areas.  CFP, CU and some agencies providing tech-
nical assistance are now making special efforts to coordinate and streamline
technical assistance to SMI at the regional level (paras. 3.04, 3.17-3.19).
2.06      Technical assistance to Colombian SMI is available from a number of
sources.5/ The largest program is that of SENA (Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje), a Government institute which has vocational training facilities
throughout the country and provides free technical assistance services cover-
ing the industrial, commercial and services sectors. SENA has recently
decentralized its technical assistance to SMI, placing at the regional level
the selection of priority SKI subsectors which receive technical assistance.
Some 60 SENA professionals are currently involved in providing technical
ass-istance to SMIs in different regions, benefiting up to 500-600 firms
nationwide each year.
2.07      FICITEC (Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecnologica) is a small, private non-profit institution which assists, on a
subsidized basis, some 60 small firms annually; FICITEC also presents semi-
nars on topics of interest to small-scale industry. In addition, FICITEC is
the Colombian contact for CESO (Canadian Executive Service Overseas), which
has been helping about 50 small- and medium-sized firms per year to solve
technical and technological problems. IIT (the Government's Instituto de
Investigaciones Tecnologicas) provides some technical assistance with regard
to production processes, largely to firms in the food and chemical indus-
tries; about 10-20 small firms a year have received such assistance. PROEXPO
(Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones) provides technical assistance to both
actual and potential exporting firms in the areas of quality control and
5/   For details about institutions providing technical assistance to SKI in
Colombia, see Annex 2.



packaging, as well as broader assistance to selected subsectors felt to have
good potential for increased exports. Another Government institution,
COLCIENCIAS (Fondo Colombiano de Investigaciones Cientificas y Proyectos
Especiales), does not itself provide assistance, but has funds (among oLhers,
from an Inter-American Development Bank loan) available to finance certai.L
kinds of technical assistance. In addition to the above-mentioned national
institutions, universities are increasingly establishing small-scale local
technical assistance programs, often in conjunetion with one of the national
institutions. Private consultants are also available, but are generally
perceived by small-scale firms as costly.
III.  CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
A.  Basic Structure
3.01      Gwnership. Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) was founded as an
autonomous institution in 1967 by Banco Popular, a Government-owned commer-
cial bank, to assist in the promotion and development of small-sized produc-
tive enterprises6/ by providing medium- and long-term financing. Since
commercial banks and private financieras focus mainly on medium and large
firms, CFP's role is to develop, and help to provide, a range of services
tailored to the characteristics and needs of small-scale industries (SSIs).
To achieve these goals, CFP is governed by the -Estatutos- and Operational
Guidelines, which have been amended from time to time to reflect the evolu-
tion of CFP's lending operations. The present 'Estatutos- were approved in
July 1975 and the Operational Guidelines in February 1982 (with some subse-
quent modifications) and are expected to guide CFP's operations under the
proposed project. In line with previous practice, agreement was reached
during negotiations that CFP would not modify its 'Estatutos  and Operational
Guidelines in any way that would materially and adversely affect its finan-
cial condition or operations without the Bank's prior approval.
3.02      Under Loan 1834-CO, the Government, through the Ministry of
Economic Development, contributed Col$ 304 million in CFP equity between 1981
and 1983. Direct Government participation, as of December 31, 1983,
accounted for over 46% of CFP's total equity (compared to 12% at year-end
1980); PROEXPO holds about 32% of CFP's equity, with Banco Popular and its
subsidiary, the Corporacion de Ferias y Exposiciones, holding 16.5% and 4%
respectively. The remaining 1.5% was held by the Instituto de Fomento Indus-
trial (IFI) (Table 11). In practice, the Ministry of Economic Development,
to which both CFP and PROEXPO are administratively attached, has played an
important role in guiding CFP's Institutional development and its lending
operations.
3.03      Management, staffing and organization.  CFP's principal governing
body is its eight-member Board of Directors (Table 12), which is headed by
the Minister of Economic Development (who normally appoints as his repre-
6/   CFP's main target group consists of small-scale manufacturing
enterprises, but it can also lend to small-scale agroindustrial and
mining enterprises and cooperatives.



- 8 -
sentative a high-ranking official of the Ministry of Economic Development)
and which has a broad representation from other Government agencies, finan-
cial institutions, and private sector and industrial associations. Over the
past years, in line with the discussions between the Bank and CFP under pre-
vious Bank loans, the Board has delegated increasing authority to CFP's
management in (a) establishing creditworthiness criteria for borrowing; (b)
directing supervisory and portfolio management activities; and (c) selecting
key management staff.  Besides approvals of CFP's lending operations, the
Board, Which meets twice a month, has been focusing increasingly on
financial, trade, investment, technical assistance and other policy matters
relevant for SSIs, dedicating one sessiou each month to those aspects since
late 1983. The Board also appointed a four-member Loan Committee which has
responsibility for approval of medium-sized loans (currently up to Col$ 25
million, some US$285,000), while the Board approves most of the larger loans
itself.7/
3.04      Since 1976, CFP's 14 regional offices have been governed by
Regional Advisory Boards (RABs) which were established to increase CFP's
linkage with other Goverament institutions and the business communities in
individual regions. The RABs are normally composed of five members and five
alternates who, apart from the regional manager of CFP's office, include the
manager of the local Banco Popular and PROEXPO office, a local representative
of the Colombia Association of Small Manufacturers (ACOPI), and representa-
tives of SENA, Chamber of Commerce or local industrialists and bankers.
Their first-hand knowledge of the local environment and entrepreneurs has
enabled RABs to be quite effective in their role of reviewing and approving
credit applications.  Currently, their approval limits are Col$ 6 million for
the four larger regional offices (Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla),
Col$ 4 million for the three medium-sized offices (Bucaramanga, Pereira, and
Armenia) and ColS 3 million for the rest.  Also, the RABs' close contact with
small-scale entrepreneurs helps CFP's management to receive feedback from
clients on the quality of services and on SSIs' financial and technical
assistance needs.  The RABs, which have already improved coordination among
regional CFP offices and other local entities assisting the SSIs, are ex-
pected to play an important role in the development of the regional SSI
technical assistance programs (para. 3.18).
3.05      During 1979-1983, CFP's top management underwent frequent changes.
A general manager, who had been appointed in September 1978, moved the insti-
tution toward greater cost-consciousness and profitability, halted staff
turnover and improved staff morale. However, because of differences of
opinion with the Minister of Economic Development, he resigned in October
1981 and another manager was appointed in December 1981.  Differences of
opinion soon emerged between the new general manager, who espoused an ambi-
tious program of CFP involvement in industrial parks, and staff at different
levels, affecting the institution's financial performance in 1982.  By early
1983, however, another general manager was appointed who has succeeded in
7/   The maximum loan amount that CFP can theoretically approve to one client
is limited to 7% of CFP's paid-in capital and reserves (currently
limiting one single loan to some Col$ 70 million, some US$790,000
equivalent).



-9-
establishing good working relations with CFP's submanagers and improving the
overall working environment.
3.06      CFP's institutional capabilities have improved over the past years,
in part as a result of previous Bank loans. Also, CFP's staff has developed
adequate knowledge, skills, and experience to carry out their day-to-day
operations effectively. However, strengthening is still required regarding
institutional strategy, portfolio management, supervision activities and
coordination of the technical assistance offered to SSIs. Improved salaries
and a policy of promotion from within have resulted in most department man-
agers having at least four years of experience with CFP.  The institution has
consolidated responsibilities under three major areas focusing on financial
management aad programing, lending operations, and general administration
including personnel management.  Since 1975, CFP maintained the 14 regional
offices to support the Governmentts industrial decentralization policy,
adding three promotional offices (Popayan, Florencia and Villavicencio) in
1983 (Table 13). CFP believes that this network of regional offices is
adequate to enable it to serve the majority of actual and potential SSI
clients economically. However, while CFP's overall operating efficiency has
continued to improve and its total staff has been relatively stable in the
past four-five years, too high a proportion of staff is still concentrated in
CFP's headquarters (general management, supporting services and operational
control). In 1983, 41X of the total staff were at headquarters (Table 14),
while staff constraints in some regional offices were interfering with CFP's
lending operations.  CFP's management has recognized the need to achieve a
better balance between headquarters and regional office staffing. Agreement
between the Bank and CFP was reached during negotiations on general
guidelines for a CFP reorganization study and on 2n action plan to strengthen
the operating capabilities of its regional offices (para. 3.26), both of
which are part of the overall 1984-1987 Action Program (para. 3.33).
B.   Systems and Procedures
3.07      Loan approval and supervision.  The Bank has been providing consid-
erable support to CFP regarding its subproject appraisal and supervision
systems, monitoring of regional offices, internal auditing, and financial
management. Also, a UNDP technical assistance program was carried out
between July 1978 and March 19818/. Appraisal quality (which had varied
during 1976-1978 because of staff turnover) has improved since 1978, thanks
in part to the preparation of a credit manual and some training of CFP.
analysts; the thrust of subproject appraisal changed gradually from an exces-
sive emphasis on the history of the enterprise to the viability of the pro-
posed subproject.  Further improvement, mainly regarding the market and
repayment capacity analysis of the subprojects and/or enterprises, is
needed.
8/   The UNDP-financed and UNIDO-executed technical assistance program
was designed to assist CFP to strengthen its operational capabilities,
providing experts in cooperatives, marketing, subproject appraisal and
supervision, financial systems, industrial parks and information
systems. However, because of problems during the implementation stage,
the end result of the program was modest compared to initial
expectations.



- 10 -
3.08      Between 1978 and 1981, CFP gradually improved its subproject super-
vision system by putting more emphasis on enterprise, subproject and subloan
supervision activities, defining frequency and scope of supervision visits9/
and making regional offices responsible for supervisory work. Since 1982,
however, the organization, focus, and quality of supervision activities have
deteriorated and the number of supervision visits declined from 52% of CFP's
total clients in 1981 to only 13% in the first half of 1983 (Table 15). This
was partly because of CFP's focus, during 1982, on lending to industrial
parks and partly because of staff constraints in regional offices and lack of
headquarters' control over regional managers' supervisory activities. Inade-
quate supervision by CFP has been identified as one of the reasons for grow-
ing arrears in its portfolio during 1983 (para. 3.27). By October 1983,
CFP's management had taken action, hiring six professionals and reassigning
eight additional staff to improve its superr-'sion work. By year-end 1983,
41% of CFP's clients had been visited and supervised. In addition, during
the second half of 1933, Regional Supervisory Committees were established and
given responsibilities for monthly reviews of supervision work and recom-
mendations of action to be taken. During project appraisal, insufficient and
inadequate communications were found to exist between two currently special-
ized types of operational professionals, i.e., analysts and supervisors. It
was, therefore, agreed that CFP would take steps to assemble a unified pro-
fessional staff to deal with CFP's lending operations (subproject promotion,
preparation, appraisal and supervision) and help to correct the weaknesses in
this area. The proposed steps are included in CFP's overall 1984-1987 Action
Program (para. 3.33).
3.09      Information system.  Due, in part, to the impact of Bank reporting
requirements established under the three previous loans, the quality and
scope of statistical information on CFP's operations has improved substan-
tially. Nevertheless, while ample information exists on subprojects' finan-
cial situation, status and results, both ex ante and from supervision
reports, it has not yet been processed and used systematically for evaluating
CFP's impact or for providing some general patterns for subproject apprai-
sal.   In addition, analytical feedback between headquarters and regional
offices, as well as use of information flows for managerial purposes, needs
to be developed further. CFP is currently preparing a study aimed at stren-
gthening and broadening its electronic data processing system, taking into
account different types of information (for both managerial and statistical
purposes) available and needed for its operations. The study forms part of
CFP's overall 1984-1987 Action Program (para. 3.33). Under the proposed
loan, financing would be made available for the purchase of computer
terminals for regional offices to complement the data processing equipment
financed under the third loan, as appropriate (para. 4.16).
3.10      CFP's internal auditing procedures are adequate, and its annual
accounts are reviewed by Board-appointed independent auditors. After
frequent changes of CFP's external auditors during its earlier years, the
9/   Three types of supervision activities were introduced:  (i) control of
investment (following the last disbursment of stibloan); (ii) followup on
individual subprojects (at least once a year), and (iii) supervision of
subloans in arrears.



- 11 -
same auditing firm has been used consecutively since 1976.  The external
audit reports called for under Bank Project Agreements have been acceptable
and have contained unqualified opinions. However, there have been delays of
about two-three months in their submission to the Bank. CFP has stated that
it would submit the 1983 audit report to the Bank by June 30, 1984, as
required by the Project Agreement.
C.   Operations
3.11      Lending operations.  In line with its statutory objectives and
lending policies, CFP has focused primarily on lending to smaller industrial
firms without alternative sources of term credit. During 1979-1983 (first
semester), an average 70% of CFP loans (accounting for some 38% of total
lending) went to firms with less than Col$ 5 million (about US$90,000
equivalent) in total assets (Table 16). The number of subprojects financed
grew by 59% between 1979 and 1982, when 3,023 subloans were approved, falling
to 3,009 in 1983. The average subloan size during the period was Col$ 1.1
million (about US$20,000 equivalent). The food, beverages and tobacco,
apparel and footwear, wood and furniture, paper and printing, and chemicals,
petroleum and coal derivatives subsectors accounted for almost two-thirds of
CFP's lending. The average maturity of CFP's subloans fell from 3.3 years in
1979 to 2.7 years in the first half of 1983, mainly because of a growing
share of working capital lending in CFP's total portfolio (61% in 1979, 77%
in 1983).10/ In compliance with its objective of lending to a broad and
regionally well diversified range of SSIs, CFP increased lending outside the
three major departmen,s; of Cundinamarca, Antioquia, and Valle del Cauca from
50% of its total lending in 1980 to 56.5% in 1982. New clients, including
newly created firms as well as first-time borrowers, accounted for about
14-19% of the total number of enterprises financed.
3.12      The recovery of funds under previous Bank loans, other external
sources and local financing contributions connected to these loans allowed
CFP to develop its )wn specialized lending programs. Apart from free-stand-
ing working capital financing, which CFP offers to SSIs out of its own funds
(accounting for some 13-15% of CFP's total lending in the past two years), a
Special Artisan Credit Program was introduced in 1978, which finances mostly
working capital requirements of very small labor-intensive firms. During
1982, Col$ 28 million were lent under the Artisan Credit Program. Also,
under the third loan (1834-CO), US$1.7 million equivalent were used for this
purpose.
3.13      In light of the difficult financial situation faced by many of its
clients in 1983, and in order to improve its portfolio quality (para. 3.28),
CFP introduced a special program to assist those SSI clients with liquidity
problems whose operations were found to be viable. Given the program's
recent initiation, data on its implementation and impact are not available.
However, CFP is currently analyzing its experience under this program.
10/  As a result of the deteriorating economic situation in Colombia during
that period, SSIs were requiring more working capital rather than fixed
asset financing. Uader the third Bank loan, average maturity of
subloans was 4.4 years, with only 12.5% of total lending for permanent
working capital (Table 17).



- 12 -
3.14      Micro-enterprise financing.  Another innovation in the 1979-1983
period was CFP's lending to very small industrial firms in the informal
sector of the economy, micro-enterprises (ME). This new approach is a com-
prehensive program, including (a) initial training in general administrative
aspects and entrepreneurial development; (b) additional training and tech-
nical assistance, in accordance with the characteristics and/or needs of the
enterprises; and (c) financial assistance.   Once the entrepreneurs are
enlisted in the program, they have to go through the initial training in
order to have access to the other two parts of the package. The program,
which focuses upon enterprises with less than 15 employees and total assets
not exceeding 200 minimal monthly salaries (currently equivalent to some
US$22,500), was initiated by Fundacion Carvajal, a private voluntary organi-
zation funded by the Carvajal industrial group in Cali, in 1977. Currently,
there are some 12 private foundations (Fundaciones) established in various
regions which have, to date, trained and assisted an estimated 7,500 micro-
entrepreneurs, of whom some 1,500 also have obtained loans.
3.15      Since 1982, CFP has been providing financing to the micro-enter-
prises, mainly through the Fundaciones, earmarking Col$ 70 million of own
funds for this program in 1983 (and an additional Col$ 100 million for CFP's
direct lending to MEs and artisans). The Fundaciones bear the credit risk,
and some administer the loans and keep a financial spread of 6 percentage
points on CYP's funds. The training and technical assistance, which are
provided by the Fundacionest staff and some small industrialists, are
financed almost entirely by the Fundaciones.11/ Recently, SENA also, in
coordination with the Fundaciones, has been providing technical assistance to
MEs. As yet, firm conclusions cannot be drawn on the merits of the ME
program, although the initial indications (including the very low - US$1,500
cost per job created by MEs) appear promising. One possible benefit of this
approach is that it provides a way to create new small enterprises that start
their existence with the basic administrative tools, now often lacking in
Colombian SSIs. Currently, the Government is initiating a nationwide ME
program with Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financing, which would
include participation of both private Fundaciones and Government agencies
such as SENA and CFP. Given the high administrative costs involved (the
average subloan size to MEs is some US$1,500 equivalent), CFP should limit
its direct lending to MEs in the informal sector (to not more than 2% of
CFP's annual lending during 1984-1987) and concentrate its main assistance to
MEs in continuing to finance, through Fundaciones or other financial
institutions, which should assume the credit risk and/or administrative costs
of lending activities, portfolio management and supervision. Agreement
between the Bank and the Government/BR/CFP on this matter was obtained during
loan negotiations.
3.16      Special Government programs carried out by CFP. In addition to the
above-described special programs, CFP is also carrying out two special Gov-
ernment programs which are only partially related to CFP's principal target
11/ Under current arrangements, entrepreneurs are charged a fee which covers
some 10-15% of the cost of the training provided. The bulk of the
Fundaciones' operating costs are financed with grants from larger
private enterprises.



- 13 -
group (with funds provided by the Government): (a) "Programa de Integracion
Social de la Presidencia de la Republica," offering financing to SSIs in
so-called Neighborhood Development Centers in several secondary cities in
Colombia (funded in part by Bank Loan 1558-CO); and (b) "Programa de Rehabi-
litacion," which provides investment credit to recently amnestied political
activists. Col$ 114 million and Col$ 50 million, respectively, were assigned
to the two programs for 1984, and CFP assumes their administrative costs.
During negotiations, the Bank and the Government/CFP reached agreement that:
(a) CFP would maintain, on behalf of the Government, separate financial
records and accounts for the Government special programs, and would undertake
such programs only if it is assured of adequate and timely compensation to
cover the corresponding administrative costs to them (this arrangement should
be introduced and implemented starting in 1985); and (b) lending for
Government special programs would not exceed 2.5% of CFP's total lending for
each year during 1984-1987.
3.17      Technical assistance to SSIs.  From 1978, when CFP discontinued the
bulk of its direct technical assistance activities, replacing them with
systematic supervision of its clients, CFP's focus has been on (a) supervi-
sion and referral services to other more specialized sources of technical
assistance, liriting its assistance mainly to the identification of clients'
technical assistance needs; (b) coordinating, with SENA and other institu-
tions, their provision of direct technical assistance and training to SSIs;
(c) lending to SSIs to finance technical assistance needs;12/ and (d) sup-
plying some technical information. This approach reflected CFP's experience
that effective direct technical assistance to a large number of individual
firms required more staff time and expertise than CFP could afford to
allocate.13/ The results of this approach, which was adopted under the third
project, were modest compared with expectations, mostly because of the lack
of a clearly planned technical assistance program and because of CFP's
orientation to coordinate, at the national level, the activities of special-
ized institutions providing technical assistance services to SSIs, for which
it has limited institutional capabilities and resources.
3.18      In line with the findings of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
for the second project and in view of the preceding comments, CFP's future
focus is expected to be on coordinating technical assistance (TA) for SSIs at
the regional level (where its relationship with the institutions providing TA
and its ties with SSIs are stronger than at the national level) in addition
to any other effort at the national level. CFP presented for discussion,
during negotiations, three TA programs at the regional level, which form part
of CFP's overall 1984-1987 Act'on Program (para. 3.33) and which would start
12/ Between 1979 and 1983, CFP approved 62 technical assistance subloans
(0.6% of the total number of subloans) for a total of Col$ 25 million.
13/ CFP's technical assistance advisors, who are also responsible for
subproject and enterprise supervision, do not have the qualifications or
experience to perform in-depth consultancy on specific problems of
SSIs, whereas there are now several public and private institutions
(SENA, FICITEC, universities and other entities- paras. 2.06 and 2.07)
and consultants who can provide such assistance.



- 14 -
to be implemented during the first year of the project. The programs were
prepared for a period of at least one year, by a working group comprising the
TA agencies operating in the corresponding region, with CFP coordinating the
effort. The regional TA programs spell out: (a) the technical assistance
needs of SSIs in the region and corresponding priorities; (b) the target
groups for TA; (c) the supply of TA services in the region; (d) the type of
TA services to be provided under the program by each agency; (e) the terms
and conditions of the TA; (f) the modus operandi of the working group/TA
program, including the coordination aspects; (g) the corresponding followup
system; and (h) the type of agreements between CFP and the TA agencies at the
regional level. CFP also stated, during negotiations, that it expects to
initiate the above-mentioned coordination in the other regions in which it is
operating during 1985.
3.19      The efforts at the regional level would be complemented with CFP's
efforts to coordinate TA at the national level (as under the third loan)
through continued collaboration between CFP and the institutions providing TA
to SSIs. In this regard, CF? presented a TA plan at the national level which
was discussed during negotiations. CFP is including, in this plan, the
required TA for CFP to coordinate and monitor the regional programs.  The
results of the three regional and national TA programs would be reviewed, and
appropriate modifications, consistent with the review, would be introduced
within 18 months of the programs' inception. Additionally, CFP should
strengthen its TA unit at headquarters to facilitate appropriate coordination
of the TA activities, in accordance with the organization study to be carried
out by CFP (para. 3.33). Agreement between the Bank and the Government/CFP
was reached on the above matter during negotiations.
D.   Resources
3.20      CFP's overall resource mobilization during 1979-1983 was adequate,
in quantitative terms, to support the credit demand (Table 20), although it
experienced some fluctuations in resources available from different sources.
Inflow of funds grew some 53% in re.l terms between 1980 and 1982, but fell
by 6.3% in 1983. While domestic borrowings grew more than 4.5 times between
1979 and 1983, their share as a percentage of CFP's total liabilities and net
worth fell from 38% in 1979 to 33.6% at the end of 1983. Despite a Col$ 304
million increase in paid-in capital, the share of CFP's net worth was reduced
from 28.5% of total liabilities and net worth in 1979 to 24.2% at year-end
1983. CFP's foreign sources grew 4.7 times during 1979-1983, increasing the
institution's foreign outstanding debt/total assets ratio from 27.4% to
38.2%. This result reflects the fact that foreign resources have consider-
ably longer maturities than domestic funds. Taken as a flow, CFP's foreign
resources represented, on average, 16% of the total inflow of funds during
1979-1983, 92% of which were Bank funds (the remaining 8% came from KfW).
Under the third loan, CFP's indebtedness to the Bank grew from 24.6% at the
end of 1980 to 33.4% at the end of 1983, but, taken as a flow, Bank resources
represented only 14.8% of total resources used by CFP during the period.
3.21      One of the objectives of the previous Bank loans was to assist CFP
in building up a diversified and sound resource base for its operations.
Nevertheless, CFP remains dependent upon three main sources of financing:
FF1, PROEXPO, and the Bank. Taken as a flow, those sources together



- 15 -
accounted for almost 90X of CFP's total borrowings and some 44% of its total
sources during 1979-1983 (Table 21). FFI has been the most important seurce
of local borrowing (45X), providing funds on terms and conditions suitable
for the bulk of CFP's clients. The remaining local borrowings were mainly
from PROEXPO resources (43Z of total domestic borrowing), which were used
predominantly for short-term export financing to larger-sized SMIs (i.e.,
with total assets exceeding Col$ 60 million).
3.22      While, on the whole, CFP has fared adequately in terms of obtaining
resources for lending, it has become excessively dependent upon a few sources
(para. 3.21). CFP intends to seek non-traditional permanent sources of local
funds (possibly through mobilization of passbook savings resources) to com-
plement the funds obtained from FFI and PROEXPO. Also, based upon CFP's
expected lending operations (para. 3.30), incremental funds in the form of
paid-in capital will be required in the 1984-1987 period. At negotiations,
agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government on the need of
additional equity contributions to allow for the growth in CFP's lending
operations and to maintain the debt/equity ratio at acceptable levels
(para. 3.32).
E. Financial Position, Results and Projections
3.23      Asset growth, portfolio growth and profitability.   Despite some
fluctuations in its resources, CFP's total assets and portfolio experienced a
steady growth between 1979 and 1983. Total assets increased from Col$ 2,134
million at the end of 1979 to an estimated Col$ 7,350 million at the end of
1983, a real growth of over 10% p.a. CFP's portfolio experienced dynamic
growth between 1980 and 1982 (more than 12% p.a. in real terms) and then
slowed down in 1983 (a 4.7% real increase), reaching an estimated Col$ 6,420
million at year end 1983 compared to Col$ 1,841 million at the end of 1979
(Table 20). Equity increased by about Col$ 675 million, of which Col$ 304
million were paid-in capital as required under the previous two Bank loans.
CFP's debt/equity ratio rose from 2.5:1 in 1979 to 4.8:1 in 1982, but then
dropped to 4.1:1 by year-end 1983 as a result of the capital provided by the
Government. Recent levels have continued to be substantially below the
maximum debt/equity ratio of 6.0:1, as spelled out by the Project Agreement
for Loan 1834-CO.
3.24      Since 1979, both CFP's gross income and financial expenses have
increased faster than its asset growth. However, while income growth only
modestly surpassed that of CFP's assets (10.7Z p.a. in real terms compared to
10.3%), financial expenses almost doubled in real terms in four years (a 19%
real annual growth) and CFP's financial spread decreased from 10.8% of total
assets in 1979 to 8.9% in 1982, indicating that its on-lending rates did not
increase as much as the cost of its financial resources. Consequently, CPP's
profits as a percentage of total assets fell from 2.1% in 1979 to 0.8% in
1983 (Tables 18 and 19). Also, profits did not compensate for the erosion of



- 16 -
CFP's eauity by inflation during 1979-1983, and the profit/equity ratio
declined from 7.4% in 1979 to 4.5% in 1983.14/
3.25      CFP's administrative costs.  The level of CFP's administrative
costs has been a major concern of the Bank and CFP's management. Administra-
tive costs have been somewhat high in relative terms. Although CFP managed
to reduce its administrative costs/average assets ratio from 7.3Z in 1979 to
6.7% in 1983, the latter was higher than the 6.0% ratio required for 1983
under the third project (Table 25). The higher-than-anticipated administra-
tive costs/assets ratio has been due in part to: (a) slower-than-expected
growth in CFP's portfolio and (b) the high relative share of administrative
costs of headquarters staff (43% of total staff and 49% of total administra-
tive costs in 1982) as compared to costs in regional offices where CFP's
income and p_ofits are generated.
3.26      As a result of CFP's expected incremental lending, strengthened
supervision, technical assistance coordination and staff training activities,
CFP's administrative costs must be expected to increase in absolute terms in
the future.L5/ In order to control those costs _nd to improve CFP's
operating efficiency and profitability, CFP is currently preparing an action
plan to ensure a sound portfolio growth at lower unit cost. This plan would
focus on reviewing CFP's organization with the view of strengthening the
operating capabilities of its tegional offices, which are CFP's primary lend-
ing units. This would be achieved by gradually converting the regional
offices into profit centers and grouping them into different categories in
terms of size, number of operations and approval limits.  In this connection,
CFP would review regional offices' operating policies, organization and
staffing, the composition of their Regional Advisory Boards and their
authority of subloan approval and would initiate the implementation of any
proposed modifications required prior to September 30, 1985. The action plan
would also identify the needs for modification and streamlining of CFP head-
quarters" organizational units, to be implemented not later than Septem-
Ler 30, 1985. As a control mechanism, an administrative costs/average assets
ratio of no more than 6.7% for 1984, 6.5Z for 1985 and 6.0% for 1986 and
onward has been set. Agreement between the Bank and CFP on the action plan
and target levels for CFP's administrative costs/average assets ratio, which
form part of CFP's overall 1984-1987 Action Program (para. 3.33), was
obtained during negotiations.
3.27      Portfolio quality.  Another area of concera of the Bank and CFP has
been the quality of CFP's portfolio. While, from 1975 to 1982, notable
achievements had been made and portfolio affected by arrears fell steadily
14/ Although established by CFP as a long-term goal, it is not realistic to
expect CFP to make sufficient profits to compensate for erosion of its
equity through inflation, especially given its developmental objectives.
15/ The higher administrative costs must be considered as the price of
operating an institution supporting only small-scale industries and, at
the same time, using adequate standards of subproject appraisal,
supervision and technical assistance.



- 17 -
(from 20% of total portfolio in 1975 to 12% in 1982), serious deterioration
in portfolio has occurred since early 1983. As of December 31, 1983, arrears
stood at 17.6% of CFP's total portfolio (Table 24). In addition to the over-
all difficult economic situation and consequent financial weakness of the SSI
subsector, the following main factors causing arrears have been identified:
(a) extended payment schedules from SSI clients, coupled with prompt payments
required from SSIs by their suppliers, and difficulties and delays in obtain-
ing credit for such working capital; (b) delays in completion of investment
projects; (c) inadequate and limited portfolio supervision activities by CFP
in 1982 and early 1983; and (d) CFP's lack of firmness in collecting overdue
subloans, divided responsibility regarding portfolio administration and slow
subloan collection and legal procedures.
3.28      CFP took action in the second half of 1983 to improve its portfolio
quality. As initial steps to solve the problem, it has (a) established a
special refinancing program (para. 3.13); (b) started to strengthen its sub-
project supervision activities by hiring additional supervisors, increasing
the number of supervision visits and intensifying their scope, and setting up
regional supervision committees (para 3.08); and (c) given specific respon-
sibilities to regional managers to improve their respective portfolios.  The
Bank has asked CFP also to prepare a portfolio recovery plan which should
include: (a) recovery targets; (b) collection policies and procedures; (c) a
supervision system including the use of the regional supervision committees;
(d) clear and concrete assignments of portfolio administration responsibili-
ties; (e) the corresponding operating/organizational adjustments; and (f) a
review of the above-mentioned refinancing program with regard to expected
duration, funding requirements, access terms and results obtained. Agreement
between the Bank and CFP on the portfolio recovery plan, which forms part of
CFP's overall 1984-1987 Action Program (para. 3.33), was reached during
negotiations.
3*29      Financial projections.  Under previous Bank loans, CFP's financial
projections have improved substantially in quality and scope and have become
an important planning tool in balancing operational targets with resource
availabilitylb/. During appraisal of the proposed project, CFP prepared
detailed firnancial projections (Table 31) that assume: (a) disbursement of
the proposed Bank loan over three years; (b) a 42% p.a. nominal increase
(some 18% p.a. in real terms) in own resources; (c) a 36% p.a. nominal
growth (13% in real terms) in withdrawals from FFI funds; and (d) a 38%
p.a. nominal growth (15Z in real terms) in withdrawals from PROEXPO funds.
3.30      With the expected economic recovery and a projected average SMI
subsector growth of some 4% p.a. during 1984-1987, which is acceptable
compared to historical growth rates (para. 1.05), and given CFP's target of
increasing the coverage of SKI lending from an estimated 16% of total SMI
financing in 1983 to 20Z in 1987 (an estimated 40% of total credit to SIs),
CFP projects its annual lending to rise from Col$ 4,340 million in 1982 to
Col$ 13,500 million in 1987, at a 40% p.a. nominal growth, or about 16% p.a.
in real terms (Table 31). This lending program appears somewhat ambitious,
16/ Total assets, income and expenses projections, made under the third
loan, have been within 10% of the actual results achieved.



- 18 -
surpassing historical growth rates (e.g., 12.5% p.a. in real terms in
1979-1982). It may, nevertheless, be achieved if the SMI subsector recovers
as expected and provided that CFP strengthens its regional offices, allowing
it to finance a larger number of clients than in the past.
3.31      Assuming that the lending growth mentioned in paragraph 3.30 can be
achieved, the nominal growth rate in lending will mean a nominal asset growth
rate of some 35Z p.a. (some 13X p.a. in real terms), from Col$ 7,350 million
in 1983 to Col$ 24,206 million in 1987. More than two-fifths of CFP's asset
growth is expected to be financed by external sources of credit, about one-
third from local credit lines, some 10Z from increases in net worth and the
remaining 15% from increases in other liabilities. FFI is expected to
account for some 40% of the funds needed for CFP's 1984-1987 lending program,
followed by the Bank with 17% and PROEXPO with 16% of total funds.  CFP's own
funds--which include loan recovery, increase in paid-in capital, retained
earnings and mobilization of savings-are expected to represent about 20% of
CFP's total lending during 1984-1987. CFP's projections show that income
should grow 37% p.a. in nominal terms during 1984-1987, total expenses by
some 36.5% p.a. and administrative expenses by 31% p.a.   Net profits are
expected to grow three times between 1983 and 1987 and would represen!.
between 4.5 and 9% of average equity (Table 34).
3.32      Given the preceding lending program and the projected sources of
funds to support it, CFP's debt/equity ratio is expected to increase from
4.4:1 in 1983 to over 9.0:1 by 1987 (Table 32). This ratio is considered too
high for the level of CFP's portfolio in arrears and its relatively low level
of profits. A considerable increase in CFP's net worth would, therefore, be
needed to maintain CFP's debt/equity ratio at an acceptable level, similar to
that under the previous Bank loans. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions between the Bank and the Government/CFP that: (a) CFP's maximum debt/
equity ratio would be maintained at 6:1; and (b) the Government would make
arrangements to provide CFP, annually, with additional budgetary resources
and/or cause CFP to be provided with funds from other sources to increase
CFP's paid-in capital to levels consistent with the above-mentioned ratio and
the lending targets specified in CFP's Action Program (para. 3.33); the exact
amounts of the annual budgetary allocation would be determined by the
Government by September 30 of each year, after prior consultation on CFP's
projected needs with the Bank, BR and CFP.
3.33      Action Program. CFP has prepared an Action Program to strengthen
its institutional capabilities, which would be carried out during 1984-1987.
The Action Program deals in a concrete way with areas that need strengthen-
ing, which have been identified mainly by the PCR of the second project and
during supervision of the third project. The Action Program includes:
(a) guidelines for a CFP reorganization study and for an action plan to
strengthen its regional offices (paras. 3.06 and 3.26); (b) a plan to
strengthen its subproject appraisal and supervision systems (para. 3.08) and
information system (para. 3.09); (c) technical assistance programs at the
regional and national levels (paras. 3.18 and 3.19); (d) guidelines to carry
out a study to mobilize resources from the market (paras. 3.22 and 4.12); Ce)
a plan to ensure a portfolio growth at a lower unit cost (para. 3.26); and
(f) a portfolio recovery plan (para. 3.28). The Action Program also includes
CFP's projected 1984-1987 lending targets. Agreement between the Bank and



- 19 -
CPP was obtained during negotiations on the Action Program as a whole aAd on
the individual components, as well as on the schedule, to carry out the
corresponding actions. As a condition for effectiveness of the Loan, CFP
*hould present the Action Program, in terms satisfactory to the Bank,
approved by its Board of Directors.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Experience Under Previous Bank Prolects
4.01      Bank lending to support the Colombian industrial sector has been
wall diversified, encompassing eight loans totaling US$493.0 million to
finance medium and large industry through private development finance compa-
nies (DFCs); three loans totaling US$52.5 million to support SSI; a loan
component of US$19.0 million for agroindustry; a loan of US$15.0 million for
an export processing zone in Cartagena; a loan component of US$2.0 million
for very suall enterprises in target areas of the Intermediate Clties Urban
Project; and a loan of US$80 million for the Cerromatoso nickel project. The
loans have helped to support a balanced Industrial development strategy,
including assistance to smaller, labor-intensive enterprises in areas where
Colombia's traditionally abundant, relatively low-cost labor gives these
enterprises a competitive edge, as wall as to more capital-intensive enter-
prises In product lines with significant economies of scale. Past Back
support to SSI, while still small in comparison to total industrial lending,
bas become a significant factor in the development of SSI in Colombia.
4.02      Bank funds have been vital in providing long-term financing through
CFP for fixed assets to the SSI subsector. Loan 1071-CO, approved in January
1975, for US$5.5 million equivalent, was the Bank's first SSI operation in
Latin America. The second, loan 1451-CO for US$15.0 million, was approved in
June 1977. Those two loans have been fully disbursed. The third, Loan
1834-CO for US$32.0 million, approved for CFP in April 1980, is now fully
committed and over 90% disbursed.
4.03      In total, CFP has financed, through the above-mentioned loans,
about 2,300 subprojects with an aggregate investment value of some US$130
million (i.e., 2.5 times the funds lent by the Bank). The average subproject
Investment cost has been US$56,000 equivalent and the average subloan size
with Bank loan resources, about US$22,800, with only about 70 subloans being
for more than US$100,000 equivalent. About two-thirds of the subloans have
been for five years or less, indicating some reluctance on the part of SSIs
to incur longer-term debt, and, at times, a CFP tendency to under-estimate
subprojects' payback periods. About three-fourths of the subborrowers had
total assets below US$100,000 equivalent. The geographical distribution of
subloans has been fairly even, with 67Z of the subloans and 56Z of the
subloan amounts going to firms located outside the metropolitan areas of
Bogota, Medellin and Cali. SSI distribution has also been spread evenly
across subsectors, with only one subsector (food and beverages) accounting
for 20% of the subloan amounts, and two subsectors (printing and chemicals)
for 11Z each. Finrs with registered exports accounted for only 2.3% of total
firms financed. New enterprises represented 15% of the total. About 87% of
the amount of the subloans financed with loan resources were for fixed assets



- 20 -
and about 13% for working capital. The average investment cost per job
created has been about US$6,900, US$13,500 and US$15,000 (in current US
dollars) with about 2,100, 3,300 and 4,600 new direct jobs generated uader
the first, second and third projects, respectively, compared with US$45,000
for medium and large industry. Smaller and new firms had a lower average
cost per job. A project completion report (PCR) for the second project
(Loan 1451-CO), distributed on Hay 10, 1983, includes a detailed discussion
of the economic impact of Bank-financed subprojects. Tables 27, 29 and 30 of
Annex 3 also show the impact of subprojects financed under the third project
(Loan 1834-CO).
4.04      The main conclusions from the experience with the previous SSI
projects, as mentioned in the OED report for the first project, in the PCR
for the second project, and in Bank supervision reports for the third
project, can be summarized as follows:
(a) the Government, through CFP, has succeeded in increasing term lend-
ing to SSIs, in achieving a satisfactory economic impact at
regional level, in gradually developing CFP's lending capabilities,
and in introducing a system for supervising CFP's clients;
(b) CFP's performance in holding administrative costs down has been
only partially satisfactory; during implementatioa of the third
project, it became apparent that, to achieve better administrative
costs/assets ratio, CFP should focus its attention on obtaining a
sound portfolio growth at a lesser unit cost; thus, increasing the
role of the regional offices in the coming years seems necessary to
reach the projected growth of CFP's lending activities at a lower
lending cost;
Cc) CFP's profitability has improved gradually, but it remains inade-
quate to enable CFP to maintain the real value of its equity. Hoe-
ever, when account is taken of CFP's focus on the smaller SSIs and
of its developmental activities in support of the subsector, for
which it is not remunerated, CFP's financial performance can be
judged to be reasonably satisfactory;
(d)  CFP's approach of concentrating on coordinating the technical
assistance services provided to SSIs by other agencies, rather than
on providing such assistance directly, was introduced under the
third loan; while such an approach was viewed as a positive step
toward future development of the SSI subsector, the results have
not met the expectations, in part because of CFP's limited ability
to influence the technical assistance activities, at the national
level, of other institutions such as SENA, which has broader
objectives than just serving SSIs;
(e) CFP's resource mobilization has been adequate in quantitative
terms. However, its continuing dependency upon the Government and
public sector agencies for domestic resources has, in the past, led
to significant fluctuations in resource availability. Also, Bank
resources have become increasingly important as a source of foreign
funds to CFP; and
wr



- 21 -
{f) the projects' contribution in inducing the Government to establish
a policy framework for the SSI subsector development has been
limited.
B.   Project Objectives
4.05      In line with sectoral objectives, the proposed project would build
and expand upon the accomplishments of the first three SSI projects, taking
Into account the experience gained through them. Four specific project
objectives merit special attention:
(a) contributing to provide the SSI subsector with an adequate
amount of mediumr- and long-term investment credit;
(b) helping to strengthen the quality and delivery of technical
assistance services to SSIs;
(c) strengthening institutional, technical and operating capabili-
ties of CFP, particularly by its regional offices; and
(d)  assisting the Governmentts efforts in designing and coordinat-
ing policies affecting the SSI subsector development.
4.06      Bank involvement in the proposed project is important because it
would provide effective support to the objectives mentioned, including the
introduction of a more focused and practical approach to the design of tech-
nical assistance to SSIs and a market-related CFP onlending interest rate
system, as weli as a continuation of the dialogue with the Government on
policies affecting the SMI subsector. Bank involvement is also important
because CFE (Colombia's only financial intermediary specialized in term lend-
ing to SSIs) has hardly any alternative sources of long-term foreign
exchange.
4.07      The possibility of having the proposed loan structured as a two-
tier mechanism, using, in addition to CFP, DFCs and/or commercial banks for
SSI financing, has also been analyzed. However, it was concluded that,
currently, the only practical way for channeling loan resources to SSIs in
Colombia is through CFP because of: (a) the recently initiated financial
sector reform which appears to support an increased degree of specialization
of commercial banks into short-term lending institutions and DFCs into
medium- and long-term lenders; (b) DFC's limited network of branch offices,
particularly outside the main metropolitan areas; (c) DFCs' and commercial
banks' reluctance to finance smaller SSIs (which account for a large majority
of firms expected to be financed under the proposed loan) because of higher
administrative costs and risks involved; and (d) the fact that the inclusion
of other finaancial intermediaries under the Bank loan, notably Caja Agraria
and Caja Social de Ahorros, would not be feasible because of the former's
discontinuation of lending to SSIs (Annex 2, para. 4) and the latter's
li-ited size and experience in SSI lending.



- 22 -
C.  Project Cost and Financing
4.08      Based on expected demand for CFP lending related to Bank-financed
subloans during September 1984-September 1987, the estimated total project
cost would amount to US$114.0 miliion equivalent (at a projected Col$ 130 to
US$1 average exchange rate for 1984-1987). Table 4.1 following presents the
estimated project costs and financing plan. Since FFI credit for working
capital would complement Bank resources, it is expected that Bank
participation in the total project cost would be lower than in the third
project (35% compared to 54%). Local sources (FFI, commercial banks,
suppliers, extra bank market) would finance about 34% (of which about
two-thirds are expected to come from FFI). Enterprises' own funds, mainly
from capitalization and internally generated resources, would finance about
27% of total project cost (about the same as under the third project).
Taking into account FFI lending and current working capital needs of SSIs,
working capital financing is expected to equal about 44% of total project
cost (including up to US$5.0 million from the proposed loan for permanent
working capital). As a result of CFP's policy to limit its lending for
industrial construction as a share of its total portfolio, less than 10% of
the financing under the project is expected to be used for such type of
investment. Under the proposed project's financing structure, Bank funds
would provide 55% of the fixed assets financing required. Out of total
project cost, 65% would come from local sources.
Table 4.1:  ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ equivalent)
Uses
Fixed      Working   Technical
Sources           Assets     Capital   Assistance  Total      %
World Bank                 34.6 a/      5.0 b/     0.4      40.0      35
CFP Own Resources           -           3.8        0.7       4.5       4
Other Local Sources c/     15.7        23.3        -        39.0      34
Firms' Own Resources       12.0        18.5        -        30.5      27
Total                   62.3        50.6        1.1     114.0
Z                        55         44           1       100      100
a/ Includes about US$0.1 million capitalized front-end-fee.
b/ Permanent working capital.
c/ Includes CFP credit with FFI resources.
4.09      Taking into account (a) CFP's historical credit demand and
projected 1984-1987 lending program (paras. 3.23 and 3.30) and (b) CFP's
lending/operational capabilities under the previous three projects, a US$40.0
million Bank loan is proposed for the fourth SSI project. The proposed loan
is expected to cover the equivalent of the foreign exchange costs of CFP's
total lending program during the above-mentioned period. This level of Bank



- 23 -
assistance is also determined by its concern not to increase further the
relative share of Bank resources in CFP's total funding (para. 3.20). The
proposed loan would be made to BR with the guarantee of the Republic of
Calrbia. Banco de la Republica would bear the interest risk on the loan and
the responsibility for the foreign exchange risk, including the
cross-currency risk. BR would charge any net losses as a result of covering
the foreign exchange risk, to the Government's Foreign Exchange Special
Account administered by BR (in accordance with Decree #73 of January 13, 1983
and Agreement between the Government and BR dated April 25, 1983). BR would
relend the loan proceeds in Colombian pesos to CFP under terms and conditions
discussed in paragraphs 4.10 to 4.16. The loan would consist of a US$39.6
million component to assist CFP to finance the investment needs of SSIs and a
US$0.4 million technical assistance component designed to finance data
processing equipment for CFP, as appropriate.
4.10      Since the expec.ed large number of subloans would make a composite
amortization schedule impractical, the loan would be repaid in equal princi-
pal installments over a fixed 17-year term, including a four-year grace
period. The prevailing Bank interest rate, as well as commitment and front-
end fees, would apply.   Any surplus of repaymeats from subloans to CFP over
repayments due by CFP to BR and, correspondingly, by BR to the Bank, that
would result from the use of a fixed amortization schedule, would permit CFP
to build up term resources for lending to SSIs.
D. Project Components
4.11      Credit component.  Based on experience under the previous projects,
the lending component would be used to finance a wide range of small manufac-
turing firms, with total assets of less than US$750,000 equivalent. The Bank
loan would finance subproject fixed investment needs such as purchase of
machinery, equipment, spare parts, and services; construction of industrial
facilities and purchase of industrial buildings in selected industrial parks;
civil works; and related permanent working capital. 17/ Working capital
financing would be limited to the initial stock of raw materials and supplies
for the commencement of, or the increase of, such stock needed for the expan-
sion, of an SSI firm. Subloans would have repayment periods of four to ten
years, including one to three years of grace. CFP would perform a cash flow
analysis and calculate the financial rate of return for all subloans above
Col$ 2.0 million to determine the appropriate subloan repayment and grace
periods. As under the third loan, the limit for subloans not requiring prior
Bank approval (the free limit) would be US$100,000 equivalent, which would
result in the Bank reviewing an estimated 35 subprojects covering about 10%
of the proposed loan amount. In addition, selected subloans below the free
limit would be reviewed on a subproject post-appraisal basis by field super-
vision missions.
17/ Under the third Bank loan, CFP was allowed to finance free standing
working capital with loan resources. However, the major part of loan
resources made available for such financing was used by CFP for fixed
investment financing, using mainly local resources to finance free
standing working capital.



- 24 -
4.12       Under the credit component, CFP would onlend to ultimate subbor-
rowers in local currency, and the interest rate to be paid by them would be
based on two parts for each subloan: (a) 15X of the principal would bear
interest at the rate for 90-day certificates of deposit (CDTs), as such rate
would be established through an index to be calculated and published by BR,
plus 3 percentage points, during each 90-day interest payment period; and
(b) 85% of the principal would bear interest at a fixed rate to be proposed
by BR to the Bank and to be agreed pursuant to the procedure described in
paragraph 4.14. BR, CFP and the Bank would review the above percentages no
later than December 31, 1985 (the end of the first full year of operation of
the line) with the view of increasing to 30Z the portion of each subloan sub-
ject to variable interest rates, reducing the portion subject to fixed inter-
est rates accordingly. This review should take into account the prospects of
demand for industrial credit (specifically demand for FFI and CFP lending)
and the prevailing levels and structure of interest rates. Based on the con-
clusions of such review, the parties would try to reach agreement on the com-
position of the interest rates referred to above, which would be applied on
subloans made by CFP starting January 1, 1986. If no agreement is reached,
the Bank may withheld further commitments under the loan after such date. A
similar review would be held by December 1986 as appropriate, when the par-
ties would exchange views on the feasibility of making further increases in
the percentages of the variable portion of the interest rates applied on
subloans. The fixed rates initially proposed would be similar to the ones
applied by FFI, i.e., 26% p.a. in the case of investment subprojects located
in the metropolitan areas of Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and 24% p.a. for
investment subprojects located outside these areas. The rates applicable on
the 85% of the principal would be reviewed and modified, if necessary, for
all subloans to be presented to the Bank (para. 4.14) but, once applied to a
given subloan, they would not change during the life thereof. Applying cur-
rent CDT and FFI rates, weighted onlending rates for subborrowers under this
arrangement would currently be about 26.9% p.a. nominal for firms located in
Bogota, Medellin and Cali and about 25.2% p.a. nominal for firms located in
other parts of the country.  Thus, about one-seventh of the principal of each
subloan would bear a variable, market-determined interest rate, while the
remaining portion of the principal would bear a rate which, although required
to be positive in real terms at the time of subloan approval, would be fixed
for the duration of the loan. To uaify, as much as possible, CFP's onlending
rates and, in line with the results of the feasibility study, to mobilize
resources from the market (para. 3.33), CFP would also attempt to apply the
above-mentioned onlending interest rate system for its 'Credito para la Pro-
duccion- and Capital de Trabajo' programs, for which it uses own resources.
4.13      The proposed onlending rates represent relatively high levels of
real interest since inflation declined in 1983. However, the current pro-
posed rates are in line with (a) those charged by other local financial
institutions and (b) the alternative rates available outside Colombia, taking
into account the faster rate of miai-devaluations, which had reached 26.3% in
1983. Once the Colombian peso reaches an adequately competitive level
regarding major foreign currencies, the pace of devaluation should be more
closely aligned with the difference between external and local inflation
rates and should result in lower real interest rates for Colombian peso
loans.



- 25 -
4.14      The proposed fixed portion of the onlending rates would be reviewed
semi-annually by the Bank and the Borrower/CFP, mainly with the objective of
maintaining a rate that is compatible with other local term interest rates,
in particular with the FFI onlending rates, and positive in real terms. BR
would, within eight days after the end of the corresponding semester, notify
the Bank of its proposed rate, and the Bank would have 30 days to respond.
Should the Bank object to the proposed interest rate, and agreeement with BR
on a new rate not be reached within 60 days, the Bank could refuse to make
further subloan commitments at the interest rate so objected. In essence,
this arrangement gives the Bank the right, during the commitment period of
the loan, to insist upon onlending interest rates that are both adequate and
positive in real terms.
4.15      The nominal spread on CFP subloans made with Bank loan resources
would be (a) 4.5 percentage points for subborrowers located in Bogota,
Medellin and Cali; and (b) 5.0 percentage points for enterprises located in
other parts of the country (the average spread would be somewhat lower than
the nominal average 5.0 percentage points allowed under the third loan). The
proposed spread would be achieved by means of BR charging CFP, in every case,
a rate which is 4.5 or 5.0 (as the case may be) percentage points lower than
the weighted nominal average interest rate discussed in paragraph 4.12.
Based on experience under the previous SSI loans, this spread is adequate to
cover the higher administrative costs related to making SSI subloans, provide
for portfolio losses and generate small profits (paras. 3.24-3.26). Unlike
CFP, BR does not charge interest quarterly in advance; consequently, the
effective spread for CFP would be higher than the nominal spreads. However,
this effective spread could be reduced if oulending rates go dowa (as may be
the case in the near future). Agreement between the Bank and the
Government/BR on the above-mentioned spreads was obtained during loan
negotiati ons.
4.16      Technical assistance component.  The project's TA component would
provide direct TA to CFP and to the regional TA programs for SSIs
(para. 3.18), with an estimated total cost of about US$1.1 million equiva-
lent.  The loan component for TA would provide US$0.4 million to finance the
purchase of computer terminals for CFP's regional offices to complement the
data processing equipment financed under the chird loan, as appropriate. CFP
would pay to BR an interest rate of 12% p.a. for resources used for this
component. The Bank would review and approve in advance any contracts to be
financed under this component. CFP would provide the additional estimated
US$0.7 million to finance its other technical assistance needs as established
in the Action Program (para. 3.33), including consulting services to support
CFP's efforts in coordinating and monitoring the initial regional technical
assistance programs for SSI. Agreement between the Bank and CFP on the above
matters was obtained during loan negotiations.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.17      Procurement. Local suppliers of imported machinery and equipment
are adequately represented in Colombia, competition among them is keen, and
their services are reasonable; only in special cases would SSIs find it
cheaper to procure machinery directly from abroad. The construction industry
in Colombia is quite efficient and competitive, and small industrialists make



- 26 -
great efforts to obtain the lowest prices possible. The survival of small
firms is heavily dependent upon their ability to purchase materials at the
lowest possible prices; procurement of raw materials can thus be expected to
be satisfactory. CFP would satisfy itself in all cases that goods and
services procured are competitive in quality and price and adequately meet
the needs of ultimate beneficiaries. Whenever justified, items would be
procured on the basis of at least three different quotations. Since it may
be difficult, or relatively costly, to obtain quotations from several
suppliers in the case of small orders, the solicitation of three offers would
be mandatory for single items exceeding US$25,000 equivalent or for
procurement from a single source exceeding such an amount. All subproject
appraisals would include a discussion of procurement procedures used,
responses received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of suppliers, as
appropriate.
4.18      Disbursement.  The final date for submission of subloan proposals
to the Bank would be December 31, 1987, and the closing date for
disbursements would be December 31, 1988 (Annex 4). This schedule is based
on average disbursement schedules under the previous three loans and is
somewhat shorter than the average disbursement profiles for IDF projects in
the LAC Region. As under the previous SSI Loans, disbursements of Bank funds
would be made for: %a) up to 100% of CFP's subloan amount to cover direct
foreign expenditures for goods and services imported directly by the
subborrower; (b) up to 1OOZ of CFP's subloan amount, provided it would not
exceed (i) 90% of expenditures for investment items procured localLy
cequipment, machinery, industrial construction, permanent working capital,
services) or (ii) 70% of the purchase prices of finished industrial
buildings, excluding the price of land in selected industrial parks (Rio
Negro or any other to be agreed between the Bank and CFP); and (c) up to 100%
of expenditures for direct technical assistance to CFP. Although, in
principle, Bank funds could finance as much as 100% of CFP's subloans, CFP
rarely lends more than 60% of total subproject cost and has finnmced, o.
average, about one-half of subproject costs under the first three loans. Il
an effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a Special Account would be
established at BR and would be used to finance the Bank's share of subloans
made by CFP. The account would be established and maintained in US dollars,
into which the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$4.0 million. Each
withdrawal application submitted to BR would be accompanied by a certified
statement of expenditures from CFP. BR would be required to submit a monthly
statement of the transaction of the Special Account.
4.19      Because of the large aumber of subloan requests, CFP submit.- sub-
projects below the free limit for Bank authorization on a monthly basis,
while subloans above the free limit are submitted individually for Bank
review and approval. All disbursements would be made against a certified
statement of expenditures. Detailed documentation for subproject
expenditures would be retained by CFP for inspection by Bank supervision
missions and by CFP's external auditors.
4.20      While the Bank normally reimburses for subproject expenditures made
less than 90 days prior to the receipt of the subloan request, this limit was
raised to 180 days under the first project to compensate for the typical lack



- 27 -
of financial and investment planning by SSIs, which frequently leads to sub-
mission of subloans at a very late stage. A review of subprojects led to
revising the limit under the second and third loans to 135 days prior to the
date on which CFP approves the subloan. This limit is appropriate and would
be maintained for the fourth loan.
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.21      CFP would maintain records adequate to reflect its operations and
financial situation, in accordance with accounting principles consistently
applied and in a form satisfactory to the Bank. CFP would continue to main-
tain separate project records as established for the first three SSI pro-
jects. CFP would also, on behalf of the Government, establish separate
records and accounts for the Government's Special Programs (para. 3.16).
CFP's accounts, including the Special Account for the proposed project, would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.  CFP's
annual financial statements would include a balance sheet, a statement of
income and expenses, a statement of sources and uses of funds, and the trans-
actions of the project accounts. The audit report would express an opinion
regardlng the reliability of the statements of expenditures to support claims
for disbursements and, specifically, whether such claims are supported by
adequate documentation and properly reflect the expenditures eligible for
financing under the loan agreement, as well as regarding compliance with loan
conditions and the adequacy of CFP's internal controls. The audit reports,
with scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted to the
Bank not later than four months after the end of each CFP fiscal year. CFP
would forward to the Bank periodic reports on its financial situation and
operations, based on its accounting and on its information system.
G. Benefits and Risks
4.22      In addition to supporting the Government's development policies,
the proposed project would help to fill a gap of medium- and long-term
foreign exchange resources needed for the financing of efficient SSI sub-
projects in Colombia. Also, the project would provide credit to a group of
enterprises that has generally had inadequate access to institutional financ-
ing, introduce a new approach for providing technical assistance to SSIs,
contribute to the broadening of business ownership, and achieve a more
balanced regional development. An estimated 70% of subloans by number and
60% by amount is expected to be for firms located outside the three major
cit.es. The proposed project would provide support to the Government's
efforts regarding development policies for SSIs and would also strengthen
CFP's institutional development initiated under the previous SSI loan by:
(a) focusing on increasing CFP's operational efficiency and portfolio growth
at a lower unit cost, mainly by strengthening its regional offices; (b)
streamlining some of its organizational units; (c) completing an adequate
information system; and (d) improving CFP's portfolio quality.
4.23      Based on the results of the first three projects, between 1,500 and
1,700 small enterprises are expected to benefit from the proposed loan, with
an average subproject investment cost of US$65,000 equivalent in 1983
prices. Bank financing, it is expected, would foster 5,500-6,500 direct new
job opportunities, with another 2,000 created indirectly through forward and



- 28 -
backward linkages. The average cost per job is expected to be a relatively
low US$16,000 in 1983 prices. Both the expected employment creation and the
average capital cost per job are in line with the corresponding results under
the second and third projects (para. 4.03). A wide variety of industries
would benefit from the project, with none of the ten major SSI subsectors
likely to receive more than 20% of the subloan amount. Although most subpro-
jects would be for capacity expansion and mainly produce for local markets,
it is expected that some 15% would be for new firms and up to 10% would
involve exports. Since the resources generated by the project would accrue
mostly to urskilled workers, small-owner operators and the Government, the
project's income distribution impact would be beneficial. The typical sub-
project's financial rate of return is expected to be satisfactory, with most
subprojects' financial rates of return about 15%, and in no case be lower
than 12%. Because of the small size of the subprojects, calculation of the
economic rate of return is not justified. However, the economic return on
the projects is likely to be higher than the financial one because prices of
input materials are somewhat inflated as a result of the protection involved
while, on the other hand, most SSI products are openly traded so that market
prices reflect economic values. As a norm, therefore, the typical products
of SSI's have lower protection rates than the corresponding inputs.  Also,
labor costs are estimated to be higher in financial than in economic terms,
as reflected by the prevailing unemployment rates.
4.24      The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risk. However, some risks do exist: (a) excessively frequent changes of CFP
management could hinder its institutional development; and (b) delays in
strengthening of CFP's regional offices or shortage and/or fluctuations in
availability of funds to CFP, mainly from FFI to finance subprojects' short
term working capital needs, and/or from the Government as equity contribu-
tion, could affect CFP's operational efficiency negatively and delay project
implementation. CFP managers may continue to change relatively often, but
efforts over the past several years to institutionalize operating policies
and procedures should help to minimize the impact of those changes. To
reduce the risks, the Bank and the Government/BR/CFP have agreed upon an
Action Program to be carried out by CFP, and on the Government causing to
provide or providing funds to increase CFP's paid-in-capital.  Thus, it is
not likely that these factors could significantly impede attainment of the
project's objectives.
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
With the Government, BR, and CFP on:
(a)  CFP's limiting its direct lending to micro-enterprises from the
informal sector to 2% of CFP's total annual lending during 1984-
1987 and arrangements for CFP's indirect lending to micro-
enterprises (para. 3.15); and
(b)  amount, allocation and relending terms and conditions of the pro-
posed loan (paras. 4.09-4.21).



- 29 -
With the Government and CFP on:
(a) arrangements on: (i) CFP's maintaining, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, separate financial records and accounts, and (ii) limiting
CFP's lending for those programs to 2.5% of its total annual lend-
ing during 1984-1987 (para. 3.16);
(b) technical assistance programs to SSIs (para. 3.19); and
(c) CFP's maximum debt/equity ratio of 6:1 and the concomitant amount,
terms, conditions, and timing of CFP's incremental paid-in capital
(para. 3.32).
With CFP on:
(a) CFP's 'estatutos" and operational guidelines not to be modified in
any way that would materially and adversely affect its financial
condition or operations (para. 3.01); and
(b) CFP's Action Program to strengthen its institutional capabilities
(para. 3.33), including:
(i) action plan to strengthen CFP regional offices' operating
capabilities and guidelines for a CFP reorganization study
(paras. 3.06 and 3.26);
(ii) steps to strengthen CFP's subproject evaluation and
supervision system (para. 3.08);
(iii) program regarding strengthening of CFP's information system
(para. 3.09);
Civ) preparation and execution of annual regional technical
assistance programs and the technical assistance plan at the
national level; their review with the Bank and appropriate
modifications, and strengthening and upgrading of CFP's tech-
nical assistance unit at headquarters (paras. 3.18 and
3.19);
(v) target levels for CFP's administrative expenses and action
plan to ensure a sound portfolio growth at lower unit cost
(para. 3.26);
(vi) CFP's portfolio recovery plan (para. 3.28);
(vii) guidelines for the study to mobilize resources from the market
(para. 3.33); and
(viii) consulting services for the regional technical assistance
programs (para. 4.16).



- 30 -
5.02     As a condition for effectiveness of the Loan, CFP should present
the Action Program, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, approved by its Board
of Directors (para. 3.33).
5.03     The proposed project would be a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$40 million to BR, for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace.
June 14, 1984



^    0  ! 31   |      ;Wi          I iJ               Ii1    iiG      I         1143 t  h 
t          e            e~ i  l                                        RI}     ild 3R
l  M ! X .  ii.  1 , 1  '1  1        I 1i        3181     ii                0



ANNEX 2
- 32 -                        Page 1 of 5
COLOMBLk
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Institutional Characteristics of Financial
and Technical Assistance to SMI
A.   Institutions other than CFP Providing Credit to SMI
1.        Fondo Financiero Industrial (FFI), was formed in 1968 by the
Monetary Board as a second-tier mechanism for financing working capital and
investment needs of SMI. There are various criteria for eligibility of firms
to receive FFI financing, including maximum total asset size (up to ColS 60
million, some US$680,000 equivalent). The location of a firm determines the
interest rate applicable, with higher rates for firms based in the Bogota,
Medellin and Cali metropolitan areas.  The average term of FFI loans has been
around four years since 1979.
2.        In 1982, FFI approved almost 1,400 loans totaling Col$ 3.4 billion
(approximately US$38 million equivalent). After having reached Col$ 2.3
billion in 1978, total value of approvals dropped by over 50% in real terms
between 1978 and 1981; 1982 was the first year since 1978 in which there was
real growth in either total value or average value of FFI approvals. Reduc-
tion in FFI lending between 1978 and 1981 in real terms does not necessarily
reflect a decline in SMI credit demand, however; it is, rather, the result of
a significant drop in the effective intermediation margin received by finan-
cial intermediaries after 1976. It is partly in response to the reluctance
of many intermediaries to place FFI loans or otherwise make longer term cor-
mitments, thus curtailing credit supply to SMI, that the Monetary Board
approved a new interest rate scheme for FFI and other rediscount funds in
December 1983. Under the new scheme, firms no longer pay a fixed interest
rate. The rediscounted portion of a subloan (an average 80X of total sub-
loan) wil. continue to bear a fixed rate of interest, and the remainder (from
the financial intermediary) will be adjusted quarterly, bearing interest at 3
percentage points above the floating CDT rate (based on an index computed and
published by BR). BR hopes that the margin provided by this system will be
sufficient to encourage term lending on the part of private DFCs and comrer-
cial banks.
3.        Another objective of the new system is to expose SMI gradually to a
more market-oriented interest rate system by introducing flexible rates. If
successful, it may be expected that FFI's own rates may eventually become
flexible in order to reflect changes in the cost of funds to FFI. FFI
receives its resources from several sources, primarily from forced invest-
ments: in 1982, over 90% of FFI resources came from forced investments by



ANNEX 2
- 33 -                       Page 2 of 5
financial institutions under Monetary Board Resolutlon 39J1978, which bear an
Interest of 25Z for the Investor. Since the FFI rediscount rate has been
lower (20-22Z in 1983) than the average cost of FFI resources since 1979, it
faces a negative spread on Its lending operations. Moreover, the spread Is
more strongly negative on marginal operations, so that the average negative
spread increases as FFI's operating volume Increases.
4.        Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (CAJA) is a state-
owned development bank set up in 1933 which provides credit mainly to the
agricultural sector. While it makes some subloans to small-scale Industrial
enterprises, it was decided in 1977 to disband CAJA's industrial lending
staff. CAJA now makes some SSI subloans which it redlscounts wich FFI: only
Col$ 1 million each (US$12,500 equivalent) during the first half of 1983. In
1983, CAJA accounted for 16X of total FFI financing operations but less than
6Z of total value of loans, mainly for small agroindustries. CAJA also makes
loans out of its own resources, but borrowers must have total assets (includ-
ing personal assets) of not greater than Col$ 6 million (US$68,000 equiva-
lent), and maximum subloan size may not exceed Col$1 million. Because of
CAJA's many branches In rural areas, it has reached small agroindustrial
firms outside the areas covered by other financial Institutions.
5.        A number of other public financial institutions act as discounting
facilities for CFP and other direct SKI lenders. The Instituto de Fomento
Industrial (IFI), the public industrial Investment bank, does not lend
directly to SSI, but lends funds to CFP and other intermediaries for
onlending. These funds come from various forms of forced investment, al of
which are declining and are expected to remain low in the future   PROEXPO,
the Government export promotion institutlon, provides credit at 18t p.a.
nominal rate to exporters through financial intermediaries   However, since
few SMIs are exporters, it has only a marglnal impact on the sector in terms
of direct lending. As one of the principal shareholders of CFP, it can
exercise an important influence on SKI financing.
6.        The Instituto de Financiamiento y Desarrollo Cooperativo
(FINANCIACOOP) is a financial insticution whlch was established In 1969 to
meet the needs of Colombian cooperatives. It makez the FFI credit lines
available to its agroindustrial member cooperatives and is also the executive
agency (since 1982) of the marketing subprogram of the Integrated Rural
Development (DRI) Program.
7.        DFCs and commercial banks also provide sLae credit, mainly for
working capital to the SMI sector, primarily through FFI loans. In the first
half of 1983, private DFCs accounted for 42 of the .iolume and 8% of the value
of FFI approvals, with loams averaging Col$ 5.4 million (some US$60,000
equivalent). Conmercial banks, during the same period, accounted for over 9%
of the volume and almost 22% of the value of FFI approvals, with subloan size
averaging ColS 6.4 million (some US$72,000 equivalent). Both of these types
of Institutions concentrate on the larger SMI firms because they consider the



ANNEX 2
- 34 -                          Page 3 of 5
administrative handling costs too high to justify smaller loans (by compari-
son, CFP's average loan size through FFI for January-June 1983 was Col$ 2.1
million, some US$23,000 equivalent). It is expected that the recent changes
in FFI lending rate structure and levels would result in an increased will-
ingness of commercial banks and DFCs to provide loans for smaller firms.
8.        Fondo Nacional de Garantias (FNG), the Government guarantee fund,
was established in 1981 by IFI and CFP to guarantee loans to small manufac-
turing and mining firms with total assets not exceeding Col$ 60 million
(US$680,000 equivalent). In addition to IFI and CFP, the following institu-
tions are also shareholders of FNG: PROEXPO, CARBOCOL and ACOPI. FNG's
total paid-in capital amounts to Col$ 100 million. FNG, which started its
operations in 1982, guarantees up to 80% of the subloan approved by a finan-
cial intermediary. As of November 1983, it had approved some 230 guarantee
certificates, totaling Col$ 140 million. More than two-thirds of all its
operations, however, have been with SMI subloans made by CFP. FNG is cur-
rently endeavoring to attract commercial banks and DFCs to provide more loans
to small firms.
B.  Institutions Providing Technical Assistance to Colombian SKI
9.        Technical assistance to Colombian SKI is available from a number of
sources, the most important of which are discussed below. However, SNIs have
suffered because there is no one coordinating service responsible for identi-
fying the SMI sector's technical assistance needs and ensuring that the
various institutions respond to these needs, either at the national or
regional level. While there has thus been no inventory taken of these needs,
they are known to include: accounting and financial control, planning, mar-
keting, production processes and quality control, general management develop-
ment, and adequate information services.
10.       Programs for technical assistance to SKI at some of the
Government-supported institutions have contracted, rather than expanded, in
the past few years. This has been attributed largely to the lack of a
coordinated Government policy toward SMI. Under the new Government, there
has been a notable improvement in this regard, with strong support emerging
for comprehensive policies directed at SKI.
11.       Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA) was established by the
Government in 1957 to provide vocational training services in Colombia. SENA
is financed by a national 2% payroll tax and is thus well funded. SEIA
operates in 18 regions of Colombia, with at least one office in each of these
regions. It undertakes many different activities, with classroom vocational,
tecbnical and professional training predominating, but including technical
assistance to enterprises. SENA's programs for enterprises are structured
according to their size, with separate programs for: (a) large-scale  -.- --
prises, (b) small- and medium-scale enterprises, and (c) microenter.ls,s
Each classification embraces the agricultural, industrial, commerce  ^-4
service sectors indiscriminately.



ANNEX 2
- 35 -                      Page 4 of 5
12.       SENA's program for small- and medium-scale enterprises, centers
upon providing 'integral- technical assistance, which includes management
development, industrial relations, accounting and finance, training and
development of supervisory staff, assistance with credit requests, financial
resource management and technological assistance. SENA has a staff of about
60 persons involved in this program nationwide, down from some 80 in 1975.
Up to 500-600 SMI firms receive assistance each year. Almost all of these
firms have at least 20 employees since SENA prefers to work with firms that
have at least two management levels. Recently, SENA decentralized the
setting of annual goals, including the choice of priority subsectors to
receive technical assistance, to the regional level.
13.       Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecnologica (FICITEC) was set up in 1971 as a non-profit organization by the
Colombian National Coffee Growers Association. Today, only 1OZ of FICITEC's
annual operating budget (Col$ 30 million in 1983) comes from this group, with
about 23Z coming from KfW funds and 20% from own resources. The remaining
47% comes from client's fees. FICITEC now provides in-depth technical assis-
tance to only 5-10 large firms annually (mainly firms in the Coffee Growers
Association, such as Banco Cafetero), which pay the fuli cost of the services
provided, but it also works with some 60 smaller firms each year, which pay
approximately half of the full cost.l/ In addition, FICITEC organizes and
gives seminars to groups of SKIs.  FICITEC undertakes these activities with a
small professional staff, currently numbering 14.  While FICITEC's offices
are in Bogota, FICITEC is better known in the provinces, with only 20% of its
clients in the capital. In addition to its own activities, FICITEC coordi-
nates CESO's (Canadian Executive Service Overseas) operations in Colombia,
which assists some 40-50 SMI firms annually throughouit the country.
14.       Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IIT) is an autonomous
Government institution established in 1958 to undertake applied research,
especially that related to industrial uses of agricultural products. The
three operational areas of IIT cover, respectively, research into new pro-
ducts and processes, industrial services such as quality control and develap-
ment of pilot plants for new products and processes, and consulting on planat
and process design with machinery evaluation, among other services. Over 50%
of IIT's work focuses on the food subsector, and about 20% each on chemical
products and metal mechanics. About 80% of IIT's clients are in Bogota,
where it has its facilities. It has helped about 30 SMI firms a year in the
past, subsidizing this technical assistance with KfW funds.
1/   The subsidy is generally allocated against the KfW funds, which results
from an interest rate differential on KfW funds and is to be used only
to help pay for technical assistance to smaller firms.



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                          Page 5 of 5
15.       Fondo Colombiano de Investigaciones Cientificas y Proyectos
Especiales (COLCIENCIAS) was set up in 1969 as a decentralized dependency of
the Ministry of Education, with the mandate to promote science and technology
in Colombia. COLCIENCIAS operates as a financial fund to promote research
activities. Its activities in the industrial sector consist mainly of pro-
moting technological innovation. A US$20 million loan was made by IDB in
1983 to be channeled through COLCIENCIAS for scientific and technological
research. In addition, COLCIENCIAS has promoted, since the early 1970s, the
creation of information centers for science and technology which have tended
to be associated with local universities. Today, in cooperation with the
National Association of Industrialists (ANDI), it is striving to shift the
focus of its activities to the productive sectors. A further service pro-
vided by COLCIENCIAS, which is of interest to some SMIs, is assistance in
obtaining patents for new products and processes.
16.       Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) was established by
the Government in 1967 to promote non-traditional exports. In its technical
assistance activities, it offers support to SNIs with export potential, fre-
quently in coordination with other agencies such as SENA, FICITEC, IIT or by
external assistance.  PROEXPO usually focuses its assistance on manufacturing
subsectors, such as furniture, leather processing, food processing, orna-
mental plants, and garments. It identifies their export potential and
assists groups of small- and medium-sized producers to develop and market
their products abroad. Some 100-150 SMIs are assisted each year.



- 37-                                ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA                             T-1
STAFF APPRAISAL MEPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 1:  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ITS DETERMINANTS, 1970-1982
Changes in          Determining Factors of Output Change
Value     Gross         Internal    Import    Export
Added     Output         Demand   Substitut.  Development
Total Manufacturing
1970-74               10.1       9.0             7.0       1.0         1.0
1974-79                 3.7      4.0             4.1      -0.5         0.5
1979-82               -0.6    -0.3               2.3      -2.3        -0.3
Consumer Goods 1/
1970-74                9.3      6.2              5.5      -2.3         0.8
1974-79                3.4      4.3              4.5      -0.1         0.5
1979-82               -0.4      0.1              1.0      -.05        -0.3
Intermediate Goods
1970-74               10.0    12.3               9.4      1.4          1.4
1974-79                3.4      0.3              2.8      0.1          0.4
1979-82                 -       0.3              2.8    -2.3          -0.2
Capital Goods
1970-74               17.0    14.7               4.5      9.3          1.0
1974-79                6.6       5.8             7.6    -2.6           0.8
1979-82               -5.1    -5.4               5.0   -10.2         -0.2
1/ Excluding coffee production.
SOURCE: FEDESARROLLO,Coyuntura Economica,-XIII. 3
LCPI2
December 1983



- 38 -
COLOMBIA                                 ANNEX 3
T-2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY 'ROJECT
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYMENT ACCORDING TO SIZE OF ENTERPRISE
Year/Country                 Cottage Shop               SMI                Large Industry
( 5 workers & less)      (5-99 workers)       (100 workers & more)
Colombia
1964                  51                    26                     24
1970                  54                    22                     25
1978                  43                    28                     28
Other LDCs:
Taiwan
1966                   4                    39                     57
1977                   3                    33                     64
Korea
1975                  36                    17                     47
Philippines
1967                  78                     7                     15
1975                  66                     8                     26
India
1973                  60                    18                     22
Indonesia
1975                  76                    12                     12
Nigeria
1972                  59                    15                     26
ADVANCED COUNTRIES
U.S.A.
1967                   1                    22                     77
Canada
1959                   2                    32                     66
Japan
1975                  19                    36                     44
Source:  h. Cortez, et al..  "What Makes for Success in Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises:  The Evidence of Colombia" mimeo, Washington, The World Bank 1983.
LCPI2
December 1983



~ 39              ~               ANNEX 3
T-3
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 3: ESTABLISHMENTS, EMPLOYMENT AND VALUE ADDED OF
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY, 1976-1981 1/
Year       Establishments         Employment of SKI               Value Added             Z
No.     Z of total   in thousand   Z of total   in million  Z of total         Growth
1976      5446          85            157.7         34            20.3         19          -
1977      5664          85            162.8         33            25.8         17          27
1978      6055          91            160.9         32            33.4         18          30
1979      5681          84            164.7         32           .41.8         16          23
1980      5771          84            163.7         32            54.9         16          31
1981      5743          85            163.6         33            65.0         16          18
Source: DANE
1/   SKI defined as firms having between 5-99 workers.
LCPI2
December 1983



- 40 -                                  AME  3
T-4
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 4: SMI'S PARTICIPATION IN MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR SHARES
(in %)
1976 and 1983
No. of SMI Enterprises      SMI Employment       Subsectoral
ISIC Subsectors                                    as X of Total    Employment Shares
1976        1983        1976      1983      1975     1983
Food                        92           94         49         53      15.5      14.5
Beverages                   54           55         12         12       1.0       3.9
Tobacco                     69           78         18         19         .2       .4
Textiles                    81           84         16         23       6.7       9.7
Clothing/Shoes              94           96         52         67      17.6      15.5
Wood/Cork                   97           98         57         70        3.1      1.5
Furniture                   98           98         77         83      10.9       2.9
Paper                       84           87         33         36       2.1       1.6
Printing                    95           96         52         60       4.5       4.7
Leather                     90           94         50         52       1.5       2.0
Rubber                      90           95         28         57       1.1       1.2
Chemicals                   81           87         32         35       5.2       6.4
Oil & Coal Derivatives      85           96          9         43                  .3
NM Minerals                 92           92         42         44      12.2       5.9
Basic Metals                91           95         36         47       4.4       2.6
Metal Products              93           94         52         57        9.5     10.1
Non-Electrical Machinery   96            96         67         61       5.8       2.1
Electrical Machinery        94           96         51         59       2.7       4.9
Transport                   91           98         n.a.       69       4.3       4.5
Other                       92           94         51         57       5.8       5.6
Total                       92           94         42         52     100.0    100.0
Source: Instituto de Seguro Social, Anuario 1976, and unpublished statistics.
LCPI2
April 1984



- 41 -
COLOMBIA                                  ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                           T-5
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 5: CAPITAL AND LABOR PRODUCTIVITY IN SMI, 1976 AND 1980
Plant Size              Value Added             Value Added             Value Added
(No. of Workers)    Book Value of Fixed       Consumption of          Ism pJ.o y e d Wo-rce'r
Amount & Inventory          Energy                in thousand pesos
1976                  1976                  1976
2 -  5                        .93                  25.6
5 -  9                        .95                  21.3                    79.3
10 - 14                     ;1.00                  Z6.3                    85.8
15 - 19                      1.10                  29.4                    90.0
20 - 24                     *1.54                  35.7                   130.4
25 - 49                      1.11                  $4.5                   118.2
50 - 74                     1.00                   29.4                   128.1
75 - 99                     1.33                   22.7                   199.4
100 - 199                   1.19                   41.2                   216.8
200                         '1.09                  21.2                   305.1
TOTAL                        1.11                  24.4                   224.65
Small Industry               1.14                  32.3                   100.74
Medium Industry              1.15                  25.6                   163.75
Large Industry               1.10                  23.8                   232.5
Small & Medium Industry      1.15                  28.6                  .118.74
Source: Cortez, et al. "What Makes for Success in Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises: The Evidence of Colombia" mimeo, Washington, The World Bank 1983.
LCPI2
December 1983



- 42 -
COLOMBIA                                ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                          T-6
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 6: REMUNERATION IN MANUFACTURING 1972-1980
(in Thousands 1970 Col$/pe- employee)
1972                                1980
Salary    Soc. Sec.   Total      Salary   Soc. Sec.   Total
Small Firms                11.0        2.8       13.8       11.6         4.1     15.7
Medium Firms               15.8         5.8      21.6        14.6        7.4      22.0
Large Firms                22.8       11.5       34.3       20.6        16.0     36.6
TOTAL                    18.4        8.2       26.6       17.3        11.4     28.7
Ratios
LI/MI                       1.4        2.0        1.6         1.4        2.2       1.7
LI/SI                       2.0        4.1        2.5         1.8        3.9       2.3
MI/SI                       1.4         2.1       1.6         1.3        1.8       1.4
SOURCE:  DANE,"Pequena, Mediana y Gran Industria en Colombia 1970-1980',' Boletin Mensual
de Estadistica,No. 373, August 1982.
LCP12
December 1983



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
T-7
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 7: SOURCES AND USES OF INDUSTRIAL FINANCING, 1978-1982
(in %)
1978       1979        1980        1981       1982
A.  SMALL ENTERPRISES
SOURCES
Own Resources             25.5        28.1       51.9        49.7        45.8
CFP                       12.5        28.7       12.6        12.6        14.0
Commercial Banks           9.2        18.2       15.6        17.3        14.6
Financieras               15.8         7.2        4.9         3.8         2.3
Supplier                  15.5        12.0        9.5         8.1         8.8
Parallel Market           17.3         3.6        5.0         3.1         6.0
Other                      4.2         2.2        0.6         5.4         3.4
USES
Machinery & Equipment     33.1        27.5       20.6        18.9        17.0
Buildings                 15.5         9.6        4.8         5.3         3.6
Working Capital           38.2        58.5        70.9       70.2        76.8
Other                     13.2         4.4        3.7         5.3        2.7
B.  LARGE ENTERPRISES
SOURCES                       1971        1975       1979
Retained Profits          13.6        10.8        9.1.
Depreciation              10.6        15.2        10.8
Equity                    10.2         4.0        5.2
Loans                     65.3        70.0       74.9
USES
Physical Investment       62          61         49
Financial Investment      38          39         51
Source: CFP Surveys 1979-83
and Superintendencia de Sociedades Anonimas
LCPI2
December 1983



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 8 : CREDIT TO 5MI
(Col$ millions)
-SMI Credit
Total Credit       FFI Approvals
CFP         CAJA                                             to Industry           SMI Credit
Year          (1)          (2)         Banks         CFs        Total         (percent)          (percent)
1970          89.4         132          87.3        62.1         370.8            6.2               55.6
1971         182.7         172          89.7        54.0         498.4            7.0               52.0
1972         180.2         186         135.7        90.0         591.9            7.8               55.5                       P
1973         274.4         465         323.3       114.8       1,177.5           12.6               49.7
1974         331,0         891         494.2       130.5       1,846.7           19.5               41.8
1975         466.5         598         274.2       124.9       1,463.6           11.3               37.8
1976         808.3         470         435.2       202.6       1,916.1           11.8               44.8
1977         971.4         838         985.4       407.0       3,201.8           15.4               55.7
1978       1,072.5       1,863       1,195.9       640.2       4,771.6           16.9               49.1
1979      1,301.3        2,724       1,286.5       888.2       6,200.0           20.7               43.4
1980      2,061.0         n.a.       1,324.8       383.1       3,768.9            8.5               60.3
1981      3,074.9         n.a.       1,148.9       482.6       4,706.4            6.5               72.4
n.a Not available.
(1) Corporacion Financiera Popular
(2)  Revista Banco de la Republica, Annual Report.
SOURCE:  Banco de la Republica
w
LCPI2
January 1984



- 45                           ANNEX 3
T-9
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH 5(ALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 9: FFI APPROVALS 1969-1982
Average Value
of Approvals
Approvals      Real Approvals 1/    Nominal       Real
Year     Number    Col$ millions       Col$ millions        CO1$000    CO1$000
1969       426          160.9              173.2               378        407
1970       576          206.3              206.3               358        358
1971     1,017          259.4              232.4               255        229
1972       980          328.6              249.2               335        254
1973     1,166          585.7              347.2               502        298
1974     1,110          772.2              336.5               696        303
1975     1,119          552.8              192.1               494        171
1976     1,140          858.3              242.7               753        213
1977     1,765        1,785.1              398.3             1,011        226
1978     2,101        2,345.0              444.8             1,116        212
1979     1,948        2,691.5              339.4             1,382        205
1980     1,624        2,280.3              272.5             1,404        168
1981     1,251        2,213.6              211.9             1,769        169
1982     1,396        3,406.4              261.1             2,440        187
1/   Deflated using Wholesale Price Index, base 1970-100.
SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
LCPI2
January 1984



COLOHBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 10 :  SHARE OF PRINCIPAL INTERMEDIARIES IN FFI APPROVALS, 1970-1982 1/
(Percentages)
BANKS
CFP                CAJA              Private        Mixed & Official           CFs
Year           No.    Value        No.    Value        No.    Value       No.    Value         No.   Value
1970            44.8      22.3       8.5       5.3       23.1    38.5        1.9      3.8       21.7   30.1
1971            71.9      41.1       3.9       3.5       13.9    33.0       0.9       1.6        9.4   20.8
1972            54.8      29.8       2.3       1.5       25.4    35.6        2.5      5.7       15.0   27.4
1973            51.4      23.9       1.5       1.3       31.8    46.3        4.3      8.9       11.0   19.6
1974            51.8      18.9       0.3       0.2       31.0    55.8       4.2       8.2       12.7   16.9
1975            57.2      23.6       7.3       4.2       20.7    44.3        2.4      5.3       12.4   22.6
1976            50.4      21.3      13.7       4.4       22.1    45.7        1.5      5.0       12.3   23.6
1977            52.8      18.7       9.3       3.3       17.5    41.5       6.1      13.7       14.3   22.8
1978            46.3      14.3      23.7       7.4       12.1    39.2       8.3      11.8        9.6   27.3
1979            39.0      12.6      28.1       6.6       14.2    31.7       9.9      16.1        8.8   33.0
1980            42.8      25.1      32.3      10.4       10.3    26.6        9.4     21.1        5.2   16.8
1981            44.7      26.3      32.8      11.2        7.4    16.6       8.8      24.1        6.3   21.8
1982            45.9      32.2      25.5      10.7       12.1    23.9       11.1     19.8        5.4   13.4
1/   Up to November 1982.
SOURCE:  Banco de la Republica.
LCPI2
January 1984



00L@UIA
STAFF APPRAIAL SR    T
FOURTH WIALL-SCLE INDUTSRT PROJECT
COaW IaON FIIICIERA  UMA
Table 11: DISTRIBUTION oF OWERSIIP OVER THE PERIOD IECEWR 31, 1979 TO SEPllYEER 30, 1953
(Coll theusand; Par Valuet 1 share e ColOO)
D enber 31, 1979         Decmber 31, 1960        December 31, 1961      D_ecbwr 31, 1982           5aptetbr 30, 1963
Sharebolders                     Subscrlbed   Pald In    Subscrlbed   Pald In    Subscribed   Pald In        Subscrlbed   Paid In      Subseribed  PaId In
Pubile Ownrship                          483,281     483,261       483,261     463,281      563,281    5S3,281       633,261     633,261       7316701     707,007
ODrect Gcvernient Partllpatlon         60,000      60,000       60,000       60,000      160,000     160,000      210,000     210,000       364,526     364,526
State-owned Equity Partlcpation        423,261     423,261      423,261      423,261      423,261     423,261      423,261     423.261      423,261      423,2t1
-Banco Popular                       129,70      129,706       129,706     129,706      129.70S     129,705      129,708     129".06       129,706     1291703
-Ccrporacion do relras y              32,636      32,638       32,638       32,636       32,636      32,436       32.638      32,636        32,638      32,630
Exposcliones
-IFI                                  10,936       10,936       10,936      10,936       10,936      10,936       1O,,36       10,936       10,936      10,936
-Proexpo                             250,000     250,000      250,000      250,000      250,000     250,000      250,000     250,000       250,000     250,000
Private Own r shIp                         7.5         7.5           6.3          .3          9.2         9.2          9.5          9.5          9.5         9.5
TOTAL                               U43,219      463,25i       403,289     483,269      583,290     583,290      633,291      633,291      737,617     767.617
Sawres CFP
LCP12                                                                                                                                                                         j
O einber 1963



- 48
nNNEX 3
T-12
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 12: LIST OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES
AS OF NOVEMBER 1, 1983
President                                      Delegate
1.  RodrTgo Marnn Bernal                      Jaime Ardila Gomez
Minister of Economic Development          Secretary General
Mllstry of Economic Development
Principal Directors                          Alternate Dlrectors
2.  Morris Harf Meyer                         Luls Delfin Borrero Cabrera
Manager                                   Chlef, Special Studles Unit
Nueva Frontera                            National Planning Department
3.  Mauricio Fernandez Fernandez              Ernesto Gomez Buftrago
Assistant Director General                Assistance Director Flnance
PROEXPO                                   PROEXPO
4.  Francisco Ortega Acosta                   Ernesto Merlano Marln
Assistant Director                        Assistant Director
IFI
5.  Pedro Javior Soto Sierra                  Romulo Orjuela Bernal
Carrera 7a, No. 15-56                     Manager, Headquarters
Banco Popular
6.  BenJamin Lopez Arcinlegas                 Hernando Cosas Rico
Manager, Bogota Zone                      General Manager
Banco Popular                             WIMPY
7.  Francisco-de Paula Ossa Uribe             Carlos Dreszer Winer
National President                        General Manager
ACOPI                                     COLAF
LCP12
December 1983



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SH4ALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 13:  ORGANIZATION CHART AS or OCTOBER 1  1983
Ministry of Economic Development                                                                                                          Supcrlntondcy of Bnk's
Corporacion Flanclera Populer, S.A.
s                   Q~~~~~eneral Assmbly
ts 1Comptroller  t         - 
Board of Dlrectors                 It Camel ttee
1Management   |I 
2ommltt                   General Manager
Legaf-_Audtors_of_ __   .                                                               1
Administratit've         Admintstrav!                                        Fln  elal                                                                per        an 3
Mnagor                   Commt t eanegr                                                                                                            Nancg_r
H ncecl                                                               G                         T                           B udgatn              Ior               Special      |      roJ eF
iSarvies         | DOcpartment                                             Dept.                     Ocptcnd rlncnTd                                                    Studies
Programming           DOpt.             DCpt.             DOpt
Organlsatlon                   S*ryste                                         Portfolio                  Acco u     torel
and Development                ODpartoent                                         DOpt. Dot,pt.                                                         Ammatane           Promotlon
Oepartoent                                                                                                                                          p   Dept.              Offleo
Pcrnonn I                                                     Insurce                      Tax                                          Lbr
|   election end                                                |Unit                           Unit    |
Reglonal Advisory
Board                               R         _    cas
Barranquilla  - M-de iln  -        ll     Preira  -  Bogota  -   Bucaramnega  -  Ibague             Cartagena  -  Armenia  - Mahnlaies  -  Cucut   -  Nava   -  Pasta  -  TunJc                        w
Pcpcrc  Promotion Office



-50-                                ANNEX 3
T-14
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACiON FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 14: NUMBER OF STAFF AT HEADQUARTERS
AND IN THE REGIONAL OFFICES. 1979-83
(year-end data)
Profes:lonals               Others                Total
No.       %             No.       S            No.       S
1979
Headquarters                 53    39.3              120    49.0            173    45.5
Regional Offices             82    60.7             125    51.0             207    54.5
TOTAL                     135   100.0             245   100.0            380   100.0
1980
Headquarters                 58    39.7             122    49.0             180    45.6
Regional Offices             88    60.3             127    51.0             215    54.4
TOTAL                     146   100.0             249   100.0            395   100.0
1981
Headquarters                 53    36.8             114    47.7             167    43.6
Regional Offices             91    63.2             125    52.3             216    56.4
TOTAL                     144   100.0             239   100.0            383   100.0
1982
Headquarters                 50    36.2             110    46.6             160    42.8
Regional Offices             88    63.8             126    53.4             214    57.2
TOTAL                     138   100.0             236   100.0            374   100.0
1983 (Sept. 30)
Headquarters                 51    34.2             112    45.0             163    41.0
Regional Offices             98    65.8             137    55.0             235    59.0
TOTAL                     149   100.0             249   100.0            398   100.0
Source: CFP
LCP12
December 1983



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
T-1 5
COLOMB IA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE I NDUSTRY PROJECr
CORPORACICN FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 15: SUMK%RY OF SUPERVISION ACTIVITIES, 1979-0 8/
Total     Cllents          Loans of                     Supervision Activities
Regional Offices   Year   Clients   In Arrears  Doubtful Collection   No. of Visits   VisTts as % of Total Clients
Bogota:            1979    1,004       117              172                397                    40
1981     775       125               226                426                    56
1983     775       141               199                129                    16
MedeliIn:          1979      720       24                54                229                    31
1981     290        16                50                174                    60
1983     339        45                32                 30                     8
Bucaramanga:       1979      572       61                32                246                    43
1981     492        80                49                163                    33
1983     507        99                47                 50                     9
Ibaque:           1979      470        34                14                111                    24
1981     39D        45                26                150                    38
1983     553       122                40                 54                     9
Call:              1979      417       37                88                177                    42
1981     219        30                95                146                    67
1983     387        47                92                 30                     7
Others:            1979    1,950      394               416                845                    43
1981    1,816      262               259                993                    55
1983    1,/35      500               284                353                    20
TOTAL            1979    5,133      633               776              2,005                    39
1981    3,982      558               705              2,052                    52
1983    4,296      954               694                646                    13
a/ Data for 1983 Include activites during the first six months.
Source: CFP
LCPI2
Oocember 1983



-                                                                  -12-~- 
-~~~wf-                                                               Is                               I  
IdOl-  C s - k
*   t   3110A                      tm            Ms                                       NA       3"           .8.       1A        m           MA        1         J. 0                    1 W
w~~~~~ m   so w  J . J   .
IN.    NM                     NA      $OA        r~~~~~~e t. 93 510$    1.30                 MA          .110316143-
"I'a  IIMA                                      'A        ",           n          .                            11         1. J 1  -  m -.   i             ..          inw    l    "       RA
Mail  '.5l5s116                     .            A0      .        -              42l    1         -a  D          421    5i        -          ll'        'A        -.          IDA        I
-A1.. 1                              s         1".        s..      as          1e          I       s            a.        9.o       m1          ma.       I.                   Ina..       ..
as. - iso.o                         37          11.4      7         a .s NI     _1.       331 mu                               nss.s *. 23      0.        59        m           w,        2.9
30.9-301.0      330        iSA       11.~~~~~~4 31         i3.    -74           NP     Y    7.        0.5   * S            313.       4.         u            99
155.3.163.              @4 Ia             .    ua.s       5s .1    in           6.5       0.2       -          19.1       I        01          in.i                               e       *.s
mom.,_ -ie                          a          msw.s     4.          I         30.8      ms        a           ga.       16 .2     in            i       19.2       1          11.4       s.
1.,0.I .                                        *-J M ,                       Z          m1 1.0    119          9.0      W.a      "1.s                                          ala      moo
VINA  10.62                                0.       0..        DO         2I3.      I).        in4        46.6A       .        ma         S.?        'A.        16        23.        WI.
".'.    - *."a                       6          'J                   Ii         5A        139        0          1.9       4.J        4           ft.      *           D.        PD A6.3 ,  4
_a        1.                               l Js.)    l.a         P.        2.         1Z.      s20           n.        *la       .         4.Idl        .a      12         11          n.6
41   25.       Dos       411"        fd..)     MA.        06        1.311.)    Mo1a       iS        5.4.       31.2        0          7To.      30.
2,.                ,                      ".3   .  1 21           an           -A.       P.1       W           'a.?     iA        MDlfl       .3.1        .j       4           MA         .4
.4   we                  419~~~~~~~~~P  219.3    21J     01         -316.     30.J       15         4120.9    2. MA                Z3.7       NiA        21           9.. A     6.
*        .                          a           "A.      ti         is         Ia        9.         a      7      .        .I      IW          3_9        4.1         m                   5.0
0il-.0ie1                                      012      61                     31.0')   25.        19          16.23     3i        14          19.       PA                    14.4     5.
"It                               Z          .01                                                 I-NO "*      9*I/ J    O" 2     L3.1       I.  "I) I
_19                        lX6l        1@.211    1.0    l.5A          20637    160.        03s9    2J0.           30.      3X.13            .    Ia        I0          1-.1*      10.9
-0 ~ ~ ~     ~             ~            ~             ~
I:. - -  tOlp..                    *_          13        30                       .       1.4                 N1.        3.0            _    *.5.l    1.1                                  J
C      C.--                         IS         430.1     Wa       'A      * .7            0.0        4           1        1.-9    -.                                 36         64        1.6
Tt lo                              IMsis  *       .1   9                        N.   0 *            1            m.0  6.1 *                      3.9  M.1  *                     0.   5
- -*s. Cul                       .7           142.17    01.0      53        i0.3         .0     lt          2.011.     --    ' -            2.100        -      j            .304        0..0 l
It"'s.                                          a        A      31            ".J      6.         my       1 .3    3E0          45P A, lea                       1.              A4      .
', IS                                           .          . .                           I                     E- l. .la e.rl                     A 7   nA
I  A410.0  mw OmIllonessm&                                                                                                                                                       Vd       :
_00.- _       A 6.    3                        m                                                                 I        la M.s  3.1   30     19.?       3.        10           1.4      0
1.:       AA                      3W           0.       04        3      _- 0           4         10           5.3       1.        13          1.1       1.    *n              3.        0.S
,_It, - 2I                                     13        I         .1           1.3      s.e        U          M,,  NA               ?          sIA.      I.*       M"         WI.%       iA
3.466.l _ 35.0                     l4          ma..    Is          37      l3|41lU.4      7.1      96          39.2        .      X1           333.: a..            60M.       10.        0Z.I
16.  - 4.03                        In           10       7.7       91          m          A.        IS           ". 3.1            MI          111        4.        M          1A         6.
.me... lana ,I 7                                 w.?     1.1         1          61.4     4.        123          1.2      1.        IM         s16.        00        M           I         1.3
JJ6.06.  - #    .          W         6         *l        9         s 801       222.9    18         147         230.3     00        IS      t 010         1.D0       70         13 A       0.9
*d-J _-. 17                                                A        MM1 il?  SO  ma        7      n 3          M30.0     11"A      Am          12.0       J4        0          in        1.
.     .0    . 210                 I            3.0       I        in7         41.  30. 7           M          60.3       MA        a          1.         66        W             A1      T1*
__19                            l;0         1.311.    leA       l*n0   *a1.            16.   _.1            10.3    10.9   7.6           .J4  _1    10.4    '.2             m.19.       0.0
1104.                           i. .n.s  -  *.  2  l- ISA  05      4a 5        11.4      3                            .5                                   J .0                  W.a     Is.
1                                   16                    1.4       01          16.2                02         131.9a0. .9 _6 t3A               *30 M.7  'A  2  .  .1  Is      10.0       .1A
066.55 .542006119                  302         umiA    13.1        02*         3034       I.A                  119.3      VA0       M          064       19.       30           0.        'A.
:i,_ n   -n. u.m.                   211        11.4       '        Nl J    16.1                     3          20.0       0         319        111.       I)        17         163.      16.
__De!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?    *n                                      ".3                 MX           .                             .3 z.                  M    *e     *J*nO.
.0 -        ml. q3                             12        `n        *I"         2.1         A        90         2a         6         10         49.2e      SO         1         19.6
mm  301                                         30.?      .                     1.       - 2.        s        131         .                  110 I               I.  *           s.      2
30    3.?      2.          ?          3.        .          7          3..1 M1i U  P 3                mm,7.      in        W            0.      D.4
04111604. o. ~ ~ ~ ~~41               :1        .2         M           523      I.                    39 Ml-  -   -i                                        "         a--?      '
I-         9.          a1_     212         1.).    '.                      D 1.6     16.        34        "3 2.9       .        6          3*.S    13.1
*130                                            60.        .       IN?          "A        6.        19    n      1        DA.s  *J             03.       100        16          3         1A.4
_a,~~~~~~~~~~~~. _|.                     .        A.       M           MA                             00,1 *X  Ms.  "v *t             m.          .Ini^
suIt mlsI.              16         31.7      2.1~~~~~~~~W   'A     46.       2.3        45          1.       PA9        9?        011         .          1            A
.eol   s00                        mc          0.8       3.4       10         116.8      74       212         225.2      1*J      212         as.-       4.?       -           14        D.
CletmIcos s.c.m...,                  ti         M.        5.        M           NOA       II                                                    714        .                   W3 NA 4nr
-n.l.pirm.45 505l10            ?A      3"        M6          ".        4          N          77.4      3.          ,        132.1 *.1            O_           10.9     0.:
0o                                  141       I123        0.1Z     310         1.         5 .4      10                                         19.        6.1       in          03         .
19631.                 p.16~~~~~~z  1.10.3    I06.     i3I9        3.4i.      5..      2.01        3.0.2    106DA      3.20             . M.     .0   31.3          3".06      0.
217  230.7    30.?  260     09.1     33.0       3~~~ ~~~~~~2621  "0. I 90       41           3.'0.WA1315                              1.
4~1._ .0zms                        11         ma.9    59.1        11          3m.       51.4s   x 3       n      .   *4.Y         30           0.4      13._       1          29.       10
3.1930                               m         1210      30.1      216 u       101.1     0.1       31.  1      230.       7 .0     213         30.?       0.0      130         10.0      19.,
_ _o.fo                             *35        1164      6.4       10          30.0       v.0      30          43.5      14.        10         116.0      49        49          16        3
w~~~~~~*2                              7.        0.1      16           1.9       10       INJ        I. 17,      3@.s     217         210.       s.3       60          40.7      0
C,6                                 IlX          0.1      4.0      10           1.8       0.        1           0         3.        1          10.        3.4
61 ?0  am WI
'51   Ws  _*9141   9*900491                     sOs*saons                       99.3 __2*
-~~~~ ~ ~ sCmy  mcn If- lOss  1.
O   - o   Sth asin  ams. , 47'-               .. *.nra.. ls6.           tn   ,.l  ma.s .9S,- e30..            l  mI       416     Wsin
inn.~~ ~ ~ ~                  . _              _      



ti is 1--. IS iS. It 1.*-..                                  ........ ...........  1Z Zoua^ Z_                                             ....         ............... I SSw Z1."S1-Xj ---
*  S                                                          S                       -s                  S                5       2 DAM  S~~~~~~~.



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPMAISA?. REPORT
FOURTH (SVALL-SCALE II4DOSSTnY PRO71C1
CORPORACICH PINANC1ERA  0PULUsR
Table 12:s  LAScC  SUM  AS OY DECWmR 31, 70PR  71T11 n0D 1970-1953
(it Cal  thou64eto)
ASSETS                                  1970      1971      1972      l703       1974     197S       1976       1977       1978      1979        2190       1981         190         19U3 (J. S0)
Cash                                   3.111      2.704     5.132     3.622      6.987    12.412     20.621     60.756    26.857     61.089      73.651     45.910     138.460            105.4U
Lan.                               94.743    189.966   290.23S   370.228    466.461   59.935    855.078  1.125.305  1A655,491   1.764.527  2.s45.037  3.616.497   3.089.911         5.343.519
Inveslrents                          1.040      1.079     1.330     9.621      9.203    10.410     25.514     97.852   159.711    138.599    238.806    217.220      324.246            615.637
701AL                   95.78'    191.065   29.lS5   379.849    475.666   602.345    E80.S92  1.2.157 1.815.209   1.903.126  2.7M3.843   3.833.717    5.414.1"           r.090.516
Less s Provislns for louse an t
Doubful ltoans                       1,843      4.292     8.419     9.528     13.232    22.941     30.795     41.925    58.439     61.549     85.351    121.389      157.28             1814.033
DOwbtful Inveatmenhi                  597         59?7      97       597   S      97      597         597        597       597        597        -          -
Provision for                          -           -        -         -        3.110     8.019          - 
Not Perfollo                       93.343    186.176   282.49   369.724    456.728   570.788    849.2C0  1.120.635  1.756.173   1.840.980  2.698.492  3.712.328   5.27.061
. Ciber recelvable                       1.133      5.221    11.773    32.123'    2136.S    34.229'   109.22V      59.360'   42.6612   114.197    136.405    14,.944      225.e67
Net nixed osant                          861      2.296     3.189     3.624      3.670     4.678      7.027     28.600    33.130      34.036     46.333     77.310      ",.956             96.248
Other aouh*e                                        130       385     2.593      3.141     3.297    1I.608       29 540    31.910     3S.637     01.175     66.290      102.541           115.408
Voaation at real state                             -I- -                                     840      1 9M2       2.87       966      48230      50.23        60.818    192.170           192.170
TOTAL ASSETS            98.448    196.527   303.028   411.606    499.382   626.544  1.006.6S0   1.361.791 1.889.765  2.134.169  3.056.579  4.111.600   6.016.666          6.416.324
Uobilitieo and not worth
bnavin, In domstlc currency
Shor term deposth                  30.000      46.190    60.575    68.243     20.156    93.623    126.110    193.472   139,160    150.677    185.807    178.874      535.297           414.3  
Rediocauntira - FFI                 16.685     565.11    69.496   107.019    137.672   153.590     64.422   2V0.709   423.004    415.996    539.614    729.950    1.0531876          1.312.306
Sand s
Bonco  eP;blbica - tonrO PAulor     2.281      12.052    32.245    37.116     11.629    15.000     12.972     10.944     8.916      6.888      4.860      3.060        1.420             1.00
Socledodes cropltalizadorar                      -         -       38.619     82.790    52.790     52.20      52.790    '2.790     52.790     52.790      52.790      S2 .70            36.e70
PaFondo Ncioaol de Atorru                   _                     -       15.0D0     12.00      9.00      6.000      3.000      - 
TOTAL ONDS           2.261     12.052    32.245    90.733     76.419    76.790      71.762     66.734    61.706     59.678     57.650     55.50        J4.410            37 750
Proxpo                               -                    1.464     3.090    1I.596    19.919    127.61    134.936   121.541       74.323    274MM35    262.250      36.719            381.770
Other borwing (KFW-DAAC, R.9/73
FIP, Rea.2977 y 4f80)                *           ,         *         ,           50       378         227      6.767    97.373    109.242    101.460      72.2SI      52.231            46.474
IFI-  rLy 20/9                       -           -        -                                                               -          -        48.990    141.604        6.274           210.670
IfI - Unidod Industrlal                                                                                                              -           -       140.00W     125.00            164.738
Other (F*nqde,lFI,81,SIP)           1 l.341   S.310    41.0459    3419        15.132    14.601      1.136   3.     d        93        642      13.309     28.026     I41.09
total Borrowings In D0m1ic Cureney   52.307    124.063   224.839   303.282    265.505   359.108    491.SO      672.976   842.907    810.536   1.221.065   1.601.07    2.317.016        2.61.0)2
krowinrg In Felng Csmency t
World                                -            -       -         -           -       20.047    18.06    175.428   211.130    450.656    752.913  1.174.783    2.101.695           2.225.012
K.F.W.                                                                                                                               -        147.719    201.109     3121.Ni 09.2
Others ( A.lD,)            *                                                                                                   -  23.m  7663  '14;47    14S.547    1450  145563  145.563  61X,3
Total trewrtast  In foreig   rrency     -           -     _  - _       -           -      20.047      4.48       3.091   36.677    596.203   1,046.181  :.521.455    244,467
TOTAL SORROWINGS                      52.07    124.063   224.839   303.282    265.505   379.155    632.916    946.067 1.129.584  1.406.761  2.267.246  3.130.262   4,76.483             '"'"'
*.-0ther pay&bs                           3,S63      7,619    10,457    11.234      20.345    23.M22     47.659     *3.421   173.74     120.129    134,025    161.963      221.584           237.318
TOTAL UAUILITIES                  5'.Eo       131.682   23S.296   314.516    2t.850   402.977    660.578   1.029.488 1.373.332  2.526.920  2.402.071   3.292.221   4.9M.067          s.571.sT4
NIT WOITH
Subwted Copitol                       40.000     59.679    S9.679    84.679    299."    200.000    300.C01    30.001   463.286    483.269    483.290    53.290          633.291            135.111
Proft of d  yea                        1.96l      2.868     2.887     4.438       1.044    8.352      2.35        5.330    S.48       42.618        44.965  53.91        27.272            11.171
Retained lwing arnd Reserves             597      2.5718    5.166      .053     12.490    14.375     21.117      24.092    25.625     34.112     75.729    12.695       174.667           201.939
$up,def.mr valer y diev.y .s.o. d        *,                             *sU                           1.9e12      2.887        66)   480230      50,524        ,97      192.749           192.749
TOTAL NET WORTH                    42.578      64.64    67. 732    97.170    213.532   Z23.367    326.07J    332.310   516.433    607.249    604.508    819.37S   1.027.999          !HI7              i a
tOtAL UAUIUTIEI AND Nlt IIIIOIITH    98.445     25.927   30,26   411.6s6    499.362   626.544  1.006.450   1.361.79  1.1819.765   2.134.169  3.056.579   4.111,600    6.016.066         5.526.306
@12
IllseeMei 1983



COLGIOe1
STAFF APPAISAL UmOn
FOURtH SHALL-SCALI ImUSTInI PROJCI
CORPOAC1TONE PIKAXCIEtA POPULAR
Table  19   INCOliE SIATEr    t VO1L TIIZ iPALI  1970-1983
1970       1971      1972     1973    .1974      1975       1976     1977     197E      1979     l90       1911       1982         1983 (to June)
INCOME
Inmewe It"m leN
Interest                                      9.3S      21.22S      40.024   49.639   67.234    99.336    137.760  1".37V  265.725   370.103   474.577   706.170   1.041.S34         6570
Cwnfnlr.                                       B43      1.729        3.012   3.976   7.155      5,131      2.959   2.OES    5.154     9,715     4.972     S.308        5.686           8.370
10.230    22.957      43.836   53.615   74.419   104.467    140.718  202.415  270.879   379.888   479.549   711.478    1.047.720       666,103
04., Inatin 1'102                                           751         570     1.383    3.949     1.707      5.326   10.U7   19.272    32.357    54.564    85.794      103.180          58,072
TOTAL INCOMt                                  10.332    23.708    * 44.406   54.998   78.368   106.174    146.044  212.462  290.151   413.245   534.113   797.272    1.150.900       722,175
EXPINSES
'Fin.nclsl E.ta.s                                 2.262     8.175      21.157   27.883   37. S8    41.954     68.275  i08.906  158.382   196.564   267.545   445.630     701.353         456 290
I.JS@Iue,e1.381                                                       .672  S,177   10,539    14.07        244       0 4r 6.603 Je.594    53.206 7I 7i1   102.552     12S9.IU    139W m
O!%er ..penrsonl exp.nt t13                                2.547        2.972    6.471    8.411    13.719    19.576   26,138   32.024    49.619    71.731    97.1Z6     140.S2           94,264
OhI,er Adinflnhtwi  E arie"                       .8h76    2.789        5.236    76    11,513    13.743      19.922   27.392   26.700    32.527    44.421    5'.905      71.389          41,032
Trehl A.*cIiZlrell_e E.p.ap.t                 4.070    10.021       15 .80   22.337  30.463    42.069     63,909   84.233   95.318   135.354   188.928   257643      347,440         218,296
Ts,al e.p.a... b.V.or. peevlioa.n mid                                 -        --                                             --
d.preclotimn                                  6.332    18.196       37.037   50.220   61.051    84.023    132.184  193.239  253.700   331.918   456.472   703.273    1.048.823       674,586
Prnvi,iear for elou.lwIM leent                   1,552     2.709       4,128     -       5.719     7.710      9.155   11.4e7   1.763    14.976    23.802    36.039       88.691          26,S95
Prvlstou for twlty Innwlmmnh                       297      -           ;         *       *         _          * -  -                      -        _         _            _
Depreeletlen                                        70       215         354      339      444      583         590    1.923    2.517    2.992     3.085     3.891        6.107           3.523
Total Nonu  Csh-Empre                         2.019     2.924        4.482     339    6.163     8.293      9.745   I.390  21.280    17.968    26.887    39.930        74.103
tOTAL EXPNSES                                 f.351    21.120       41.519   50.559   74.214    92.316    141.929  206.629  274.M0   349.6SS    483.360   743.203    1.123.628        705,224
Net Pmfnt kIca Tea,r                           .91      2.598        2.887    4.439    4.114    13.M8M     4.115    5.833   15.171    63.359    50.753    54.069      27.272           17,171
Proviluion f (tun                                   -           -               *     3,109     5.506      _.910      503   6.e60    21.741      5.788       76          _                _
Noe Pmf-                                                                              1.045     8.352      2.205    5.330   *.491    41.610    44.96S   SA.993        2V.272           27,272
LCPII
D*c.eir 1983



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
CWLUUIA                                   T-20
STAFF APPSPISL     5T
Itm s1LL-SCAE INeIU   PwOJET
CmRmACImC FIINCIEMII PPULA
Table 20: SCm S AN AMICATiUIIS O FVIUNS, 1960-33
C0o1 S m I I lonsg
1963
lVO          19W1         :962       Usop. 303
ingRCESS
Nwt Prof It                             45.0        94.0          27.3         44.9
Nbn-Cah Expenes
Dspre i.tlon                             3.1         3.9           6.1          5.3
Povlsions fao Doubtful Loans
and Twas                              29.6        36.1          66.7         42.5
Inreas  In Cpital                       -          100.0         90.0         154.5
77.7       194.0         152.0        247.2
Local Currncy Borrowngs:               763.1     1 324.2       1.614.3      1.360.5
FFI                                  322.0       465.1         721.9        763.3
PRiEIO                               361.1       594.5         711.0        526.4
FIF - Lay 20                          49.0        92.6         101.0          B.0
IFI - Rscursos Liao                    -         140.0          -            70.0
SIP - Bspapslar                       11.7        14.3          54.0          -
Otlr                                  19.3         17.4         3.6           2.1
Exta-al Bomrowings:                    467.6       507.7       1.020.6        302.9
World Bak                            319.9        454.3      1.011.1        302.9
KFW                                  147.7        53,4           9.5          -
Total Borrowings                   1J230.7     1.031.9       2.634.9     13672.7
Portfolio Recovery                    1127.6      1.574.3      1,9W5.1       1,726.7
Increse In Otlar Psflblea              102.9        24.5         162.0         90.
Incroaa Deferrad LIbSiltIes            3.0          27.5         40.9         60.9
Hnrass In Resarwas                      4146        45.0         54.0          27.5
Dacres  In Oiler Assets                 37.8        21.6           1.2          1.2
TOTA SOlRCS                        2,343.5      3,716.1      5,205.5       3,549.7
U!ES
Dlsburwsnts                         1317.2      2,202.6       3,451.6       2.237.6
RApaisAt of Do_tic Borrowlngs:         73.9       1.336.3      1.066.0      1.135.6
LI.s,at Credit:                        60.4       1.334.2      1.067.1      1,094.6
FF1                                  196.4        274.3        396.3        34.6
PNElO                                441.9      1,032.2        607.6        620.7
IFI - L    2D                          -           -            16.3         39.0
IFI - Ruacars Lleo                    -            -            15.0         46.0
Otler                                 25.1        27.2          31.9          3.9
Bonds and Oiler U_*s                    70.5         2.1           1.7         41.0
IBR                                    2.0          1.6          1.4          0.3
Otlar                                 61.5         0.3           0.3         40.7
Ranpmt of Foroign Borrowing:            16.7        47.4          06.7         84.5
World BaSi                            18.7        17.4          96.7         84.J
FlVd Asset Pw d ame                    100.2         -           107.0        216.6
Portfolio Write Off                     10.5        T6.3          31O          35.9
Increas In RAcalwables and Def.
Expensa                               67.0        35.9         197.6         67.5
increae  In Other Asets                 15.5        42.4         106.7         32.0
TM Paymnt                               11.3        12J            4.6          0.3
Dscreae In Otlor Llaklitlas             13.0         7.6           2.0         30.2
Docruse In Resrv_                       41.6        45.0          54.0         27.3
TOTAL USES                         2.30.9      3.746.5      5,113.0       3,913.2
Increase (DOcree) In Cash               12.6       (27.7)        92.5         t68.71
Sore: CFP
LCP12
Decusber 19t3



COLGOMA
STAFF APPRAISAL UP0oT
inaM  SMAL-SCWAL INDUSTfT P1JICT
CouOIUACIr    FINAJCIuA ?OIULA   S.A.
Table  21 i     Lnm  of a      NDs BEIVEgS1 1973-1983
(Col.5 9Killion)
1973      1974        1975           1976        1977          9973          1979            I90            911            1932          133  (tO Jima)
Net Plin                               4.4        9.0          8.3            2.2        5.3            *.5         41.6           45.0            54.0            27.3                 17.1
.. 4irac:wt              ..... 0.2                0.4          0.6           0.6          1.9           2.5 *.0                     3.9             3.              6.1
Soblaei tpapyrtMh                     135.6      190.5        263.1         337.2       622.0          616.3        903.4          327.          1.574.3         2.010.2              163.5
Tax pi*SWw.                             -         3.1          5.5            2.0        0.5            6.7         21.7             5i             0.1              -
S'we Capital IMrnew                   25.0      115.3           -           100.0       D0.0           833.3          --                            00.0           50.0
Lomcl Curecy Iwvarwngs I
F.f.I.                           77.1      166.3        155.1         I65.0       219.9          263.3        167.0           322.0          465.1           721.9               4.
f7,:1w                            0.5       0.4           0.5           0.1          *              -            04             12             0.9             0.1 
Prasape                           3.9       17.5         34.7         It9.5      46.1           201.1        170.6          361.0           594.7           711.6               U0.0
I.F.I.                           14.5       5.4          17.2 
$ID - f1l                         2.2         -            *                                      -              -                             -               -
Fard  Nzl. del Alarr             15.5               -             -                  -              a            -             -                               -
6iiekai4~ 9/73                    -        0.S            -             -           -              -                                          --
Cclc !cIl:l cb to n.               *          *                         5.0          -                           _                                                                 _
Ixiado,r. de Capitelia.eI        3O.6       15.6
cat-to 2369                       5.4         -           5.4                         -            -             -              -                      -
b6aIa  P:.Plar                   42.7      40.7          65.0          94.8
lare c:r.-a                                   ... .. ,3   oz,      
Sao  CeFe: So               -      -                                               903--                                                                         
Feida F*W,Av Cineme&tfilio         -          -            -             -         33.6           62.9
t,:e4.;o iu6, di castir (C.F.S.)   -         -             -             -         10.0             -            -                     -               -                 -
Ceoc ts  adn4.                     -         --*                         -         30.0            .J
Psaluaib 2V77                      '          '            '             '-                       73.4           -             -                               -
F.1.F                                        -            -             -           -             5.0                         -               -               -
-j,e  .   .            -              .134                      -           0.1             -               -
SUP - kn o Pep,Iar                 -         -             *             -           -              *            -            11.7            14.3            54.0
PIF luceni EfoE0 JJa.rwmlidrn    -                -             -            -            -                    -             4.6             1.5
brace Rep. - F..A.                 *03 .                                                                                                                       ,
IFI- 5w. iay 20/7                  *          -            -             -           -              -            -            49.0            9.4            o1.                   6.0
Ifl- llaugn It9u    ) UAl          -                       a0 -                                     -            -             -             10.00
It:U.etio  10/61                   -          -            -             *           -              -                   -              -                      20.2
uat,ral lw,eawni I
Vl.ld 64                           -          -          20.0          91.0        57.4           43.7        256.7          321.0           469.2         1.13.7                265.5
U-i t  -  -            -            212.4       74.3          47.9            -             -               0.1             -
K.F.W.                                                                                                                       147.7 J3.4                        1 1
Speclil AtTieneAl s
K.F.W. - O.A.A.C.                                                                   6.7           9.3          11.9           12.2             -               4.4               -
Praoigrm 69r - IPC               _            -            -             -           -              -          _               -               -               3.6
TOTAL. SOIIOVINGS               2t00      246.6         217.9         161.2       90.2          731.9         627.9        1.230.7         I.t31.J         2.635.0
llnaees In piIrits orw be dbgh          -         5.7          7.7            9.2        91.5          24.1         95.0            23.1           36.0            66.7
lacewit In 1*,et6tt                    2.9        4.4          1.0           1.3         2.2            9.5          ,3             41.6           45.0            54.0                27.3
laiau" In e9r ldllisi..                IJ6        4.0          6.5           34.         :4.2          39.4        107.6            27J.           50.0           354.3               145.9
Deasa. e . h  h, emh                   3.2       12.5          0.-                        - 06.0                    24.1            37.t           51.3             -                      1
GLAND TOtAL                      73.6      563.8        613.4      .1.075.7    1.6 l.9 5.7.2                1.754.0        2.343A          3.74.4          5.205J6
Cp                                                                                                    --                - -                               -
_t' C0' "
t   a  .                                                                {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1t
-'3t
.            INS 1



OLOWI IA
STAFF APMISPRAL     T
Front SMA.L-SCALE IIOUSTRY PRJECT
CCPtPORACION FINWCIERA POPUt
Tabl. 22:  SUIRY OF ESOURCE POSITION AS OF JtlE 30, 1983
Yar of                 Final Use of Funds                  Total             Awunt             Aount          Lnding          CFP
Agremnt    Working Capital   Fixed Assts   Other            Ainunt           Olsbursad        ArtIzed           Intaret       Sproed
CFP Own Funds
Equity                                   -                 x               x           x             NA                NA                NA          18-260           NA
ForeI t Loans
World Bank lIst Loan)                   1975                               x           x       USS9,SO0,000       USS5,43,211       USS2,012,390     24-155        5.5-31
World Sank (2nd Loan)                   1977                               x           x       USSI5,OO,OOO      US14,U89,670     UStI,S67,450     24-151        7.5 .5,35
MWt                                     1977                               x                   OH5,000,000        01,7,993.883            -          241           5.51
AID                                     1975               x               x           x       USU4,000,OOO       USS3,40,048            -   -       1-24%
World  anat (3rd Loan)                  1980               x               x           x       USS32,000,000      US126,0,55l             -          51l           5.25.4.751
Local Loans
FFI                                     196S               x               x                         NS                                                261          4%
fonada                                  1970                                           x             NS                                               I5II           31
Proxp Ordinario                         1969               x                                         NS                                               1B            41
Proexpo Extraupos                       1976               x                           ,NS                                                             III           41
FIP                                     1978               x               x                         NS                                                221          31
Res 25/77 J.".                          1976                                                   ColIS71,000,000                                         201           1.51
UPAC                                    1976                               x                   ColS13,324,815                                            -
Sanco d  Is RepubLle  (Sano)         1969/75             x               x           x       ColI20,280,200                                          iS            11-91
Soeldades d Ca1tpalizaclon              1973               x               x           x       Co1S15,522,100                                         IIf          71
SIP  S anco Popular                     19S0              x                x                        tS                                                 241          31
Lay 20 - SBno   IFI                     190                x               x           x             NGS                                               251 
Reoluclon 6/0                           19E0               x               x NIS                                                                       145              -
Arolndustry IID 1357-                   1960                               x                         NS                                                IS%           41
IFI - Recurns LI**                      1980                                          x              IS                                               22%           31
Special Funds
NYU - MAO                               1977                                           x             NS                                              19-10,121          -
PA - Not applicable
NS - Not spefltfed
SBwea l P
LCIl2
Coamer IM1



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SY.LL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 23:   E  FINANCA  INDICATORS. 1977-82
1977         1978         1979        1980        1981       1982
Pro fitabiit/ Operational Performance
Income Items as % of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                                        17.9          17.9        20.5         20.6       22.3        22.7
Financial Expenses                                   9.2           9.7         9.7         10.3       12.4        13.8
Administrative Expenses                              7.1           5.9          6.8         7.3        7.2         6.9
Provisions and Depreciation                          1.1           1.3         0.9          1.0        1.0        1. 5
Net Profits After Taxes                              0.4.          0.5          2.1         1.7        1.5         0.5
Gross Income Iess Financial Expenses                 8.7           8.2         10.8        10.3        9.9         8.9
Not Prolih after Taxes os % of Average Equity              1.6           2.0         7.4          7.1        7.4        2.9
Income from Loans as % of Average Portfolio              20.4           19.5        22.2         22.3       23.1       24.1
Financial Expenses as % of Average Portfolio              10.9          11.4        11.5         12.4       14.5       16.1
Financial Margin as % of Average Portfolio                9.4            8.2        10.8          9.8        8.6        8.0
Provisions for Lanes as % of Averoge Porlfolio             4.3           4.2         3.6          3.9        3.9        3.6
Financlal Structure
Total Debt / Equity                                  3.1           2.7          2.5         3.7        4.0         4.8
Domestic Borrowinp as % of total Borrowings         71.1          70.3        57.6         53.8       51.4        48.6
Foreign Borrowings as % of Total Borrowings         28.9          29.3        42.4         46.2       48.6        51.4
World Bank Borrowing as % of Total Borrowings       18.5          17.6         32.0        33.2        37.5       44.1
World Bank Borrowing as % of Total Asets            12.8          11.2         21.1        24.6        28.5       34.9
Short -oterm portfolio Including " extracupos "/     0.5           0.4          0.3         0.8        0.8         0.8
equity ratio
" Extrocupos u   equity ratlo                        0.3           0.2          0.1         0.4        0.3         0.3
Domestic Pesources as of Total Ashs                 73.8          71.9        66.4         61.3       59.0        55.6
Annual Growth Rates
Total Assets                       .                36.0          38.8         13.0        43.2       34.5        46.3
Net Portfolio                                       39.0          48.8         4.8          46.5      37.6       41.6
Equlty                                               1.8          55.4        17.6           7.7      25.2        25.8
Net Profits after Taxes                              4 .7         59.2      390. 0           8.2      20.0      (49.5)
LCUP2       .*l
Deceaber 19A; 



STAFF ARAISAL       T
FOURTH YMLL-SCJiE IrP6TRY PFIOJECT
ComftACl@S riwmitRA Pop" L
Table 24- AGING OF ADMARS. 1979-0
OeeWer 31. 1979                            Omber  31, 19S0                         lOKcabr 31. 1981                          Omar  31, 1982                             J   30. 19U
total Portfolio Affete                   Total Portfollo Affect                    Total Pertfollo Affected                 Total Portfollo Affect                    Total Portfolio Afftted
AglAg of Arrows    No. of Cll nts   A unt m/         5 U/     1. of Cilltas  Amt a/            S b/     No. of CIllnts  AU t /                    N D  o. of Clients  Alouft 8/   5        No. of Cllenta   Awlt F/        2/
I - 30 days              221          93.0        3.0             212           61.4       2.4              186          67.0        1.9              246         j41.4        3.0             410          36.6        7.3
31 - 60 days               94           19.7       1.1              89           24.5        1.0              93           44.1       1.2              Ito          80.6        1.6            .1B4          124.5       2.3
61 - 90 days               96           16.0       0.9              94           17.2       0.7               St           29.9       0.8               97          30.4        0.6              96           64.9       1.2        8
91 - ISO days               2           33.0       1.9              103          30.2        1.4             112           69.6       1.5               90          97.7        1.1              149         12b.         2.4
181 - 30  days              76          19.6        1.1              97           24.7       1-0              116          63.2        1.5              100          713.4       1.3             115           96.4       1.8
Sub-Total                931         141.4        8.0             611          164.1       6.4              996          269.6       7.4              603         399.5        7.9             954          802.1      19.0
Ovai 3M0 days              941          73.6        4.4             627          106.3       4.2              705          144.2       4.0              652         215.6        4.3             694          269.1       9.0
TOTAL                  1,072         220.0       12.4           1,23           270.9      10.6            1.263         414.0       11.4            1.259         611.1       12.2           1,646        1.071.2      20.0
a/ Cot militons
AS Wretae  of total portfolle
OLCmr 1993
DO_atr OMU



co@IAl
STAFr APaI3SM  IW T
ramTH WL-SCALE IPWTRTY PJCCT
CJIbACION FIVtCICRA  FPJU
VW*  23: AXMI6lSThATIF WE10IT1MUS * RE0CIWL aFFICES 1979-2
A*lmlstra4le Coils                        La" Prtfollo *i                                Aep-Ais a/                                A^1mlsratIe Coists as S of
ICIl.1  IIIloasI                         (tel.111lle*l                                Il0.1.6 uIICo.Stil                  Lowt Prtfolto                 ADegals
4ItogAMl Offics    1979   1900       19S1      1979 1960 1960                  toll         96         It"       19oe       1911        19          1979   96   1E11   12    19   low0  1961  112
6wrAveIIIa          3.1    9.3    13.2        14.?         112.4    262.9    364.6        416.9         101.      274.9    431.3       329.2        4.9   3.A   3.6   3.3       3.4   3.4   3.0   2.3
Vid.l  I            7.6   11.1   1I.9         20.3         20.6    39.5       U    8       4..  6A1.&   276.6    317.7    51t.1        513.6        3.0    2.8   2.3   2.4      2.4   3.3   3.1   3.3
Call                6.2    9.9    14.3        19.0 V/      164.0    210.6    33.2         313.7 Vi      139.3    244.7    31964        .M-1 h/      3.7   3.9   4.0   3.6       3.9   4.0   4.3   3.7
ftuaIr*             3.1    4.9      6.7        3.3          30.1    131.9    212.0        302.8          61.4    101.0    1".4         214.7        3.6   3.7   3.1   2.t       3.0   4.9   3.6   3.9
sOgo               14.8   19.3    30.O/   39.7            4O.9   311.3    693.0 e/    792.7 ei         270.6    SO.3    613.1 Ci    672.9 C/       3.2   3.5   4.3   3.0       3.2   3a    4.9   3.9
ksucmaq             4.6    6.4    10.7        16.2         1SS.7    2094      22.6        606.2         134.2    191.3    229.1        341.6        3.0   3.2   3.9   3.9       3.3   3.4   4.7   A.3
Ib""                2.7    4.4      7.1       10.1          79.1    109.6    113.0       n72.6           39.3     "..    122.2         273.6        3.6   4.0   4.3   3.7       4.9   3.6   3.3   3.7
Cwt.ga               2.6    4.0     6.4        6.0          S9.4     91.9      6.6        240.6          39.4      n9.0    li7.        2t1.3        3.0   4.4   4.3   3.3        7.0   4.3   3.2   3.2
Armala              2.2    3.3       4.7       6.6          41.9     63.2      63.6       129.9          31.     92.6      904         77.2        4.9   3.0   34    S.2       6.9   6.2   9.2   3.6
1luolmacI            1.9    3.2      4.6       6.?          32.4      7S.1    130.1       201.1          411.3     t.      103.4       169.6         3.7   4.0   3.7   3.3       3.1   6.4   4.6   4.0
CuevIl               2.1    3.2     4.?        7.0          41.7    31.2       76.3       166.0          41.4      47.6     63.6       137.6        4.9   3.6   6.1   3A         6.9   *.7   7.4   3.1
3.1l,               2.1    3.2       3.1       6.7          34.3     41.6      70.?       124.3          21.4       3.3     76.2        39.1         3.6   7.6   7.2   3.4       0.7   6.9   6.6   7.a
e                   J  3.3    3.1    6.4       9.9          40.?     79.9    117.1        171.4          47.1      10.0     63.3       132.3       .6.7   6.3   3.3   3.0        7.3   7.3   7.3   *.9
?"Jo                3.0    4.6      6.1        3.6          37.4     U2.3    100.0        157.9          46.0     11.       67.9       117.6        3.3   3.6   6.1   3.7       6.6   9.6   9.0   3.0
HgeiHt             U.4   67.1   Ia.4         174.3 c/                                        -          -            -         -         -
tOtAL             0.3  (79.    601.        7s          t 332.3                        T.9 .6    -I t".0  T1 s9.2   i102J  7 07t.9  t1.3            7.7   7.S   7.    Ta       j.    U       U           T1
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  _
6/ l6lun   IPOm    of Im.
e2 luelgA  0oIawm  mWd 9111a.lmuele p9mb   offim.
oi CFP
CwPt 
L - I2 I



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
T-26
COLOMB IA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 26: CORPORACION FIMANCIERA POPULAR LEND INS RATES
AS OF NOVEMBER 1983
ANNUAL
LENDING RATE       ANNUAL
TO ULTIMATE      REDISCOLif         SPREAD     REDISCOINT
BENEFICIARY         RATE            TO CFP       MARGIN
S                S                S           S
OWN RESOURCES
1. Flxed Investment                         24.0
2. Production CredIt                        26.0
3. Refinancing                              24.0
4. Working Capital                          26.0
5. Artisans and Microenterprlses            22.0
LOCAL BORROWINGS:
6. FIP                                      22.0             19.0              3.0        100.0
7. PROEXPO (Ordinarto, Extracupos,
Resoluclon - 10181)                    18.0             14.0              4.0        90.0
8. PROEXPO - Fairs                          18.0             14.0              4.0         95.0
9. FFI                                   26.0,20.0        22.0,20.0            4.0      83.0,87.0
10. BR - Resolucion 2877 - JM               20.0             18.5              1.5        95.0
11. ER - Resolucion 6/80 - JM               14.0             14.0              -           50.0
12. IFI - Conos Ley 20179                   25.0             20.0              5.0        100.0
13. IFI - Unidad Industrlal                 22.0             19.0              3.0        100.0
14. IFI - Rehabilttaclon                    18.0              1/               1/           1/
15. SIP - CFP                               24.0             21.0              3.0       t1O.0
16. Fonade                                  ;8.0             15.0              3.0        100.0
EXTERNAL BORROWINGS:
17. IBRD (1071-CO)                       15.0,24.0        12.0,18.5          3.0,5.5      100.0
18. IBRD (1451-00)                       15.0,24.0       12.0,17.5,18.5    3.0.6.5,5.5   100.0
19. IBRD C1834-CO)                          26.0       12.0,20.75,21.25    3.0,5.25,4.75  100.0
20. IBMR (1857-CO)                          27.0             22.0              5.0        100.0
21. AID                               18.0,22.0,24.0       2.0,6.0             -          100.0
22. KFV                                     24.0             18.5              5.5        100.0
23. KFW-DAAC                                18.0              -                18.0       100.0
1/ Not yet determined.
Source: CFP
LCP12
December 1983



COLOM IA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH S4ALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 27: AVERAGE SUBPROJECT IMPACT SURVEY I 8/
Average Subproject         Annual Sales c/                 Employment              Labor Productivlity d/
Number of          Armunt b/                 US$ '000             (No. of Workers per Flrm)              (USS)
Subprojects         USS '000             Pre-Project   Present       Pre-PrQject    Present         Pre-Project  Present
Sub-borrovwrs' Asset SIze
Less than 0.15 million              87                 36.1                 123.5        124.3              8.9        12.0           13,876      iO,358
Between 0.15 mililon and
0.65 million                      13                207.0                 942.5      1,018.6             32.2        39.7           29,220      25,657
Type of Industrlal Activity
Apparel and Clothing                12                 40.4                 173.1        143.3             15.7        18.3           11,025       7,831
Chemical Products                    S                110.9                 382.6        628.9             15.4         19.1          24,944      32,927
Electrical Machinery                 3                 26.4                 188.3        118.6             11,3        13.0           16,664       9,123
Food and Beverages                  16                 55.5                 521.6        437.6             13.4        17.8           38,925      24,594
Leather Goods                        7                 16.0                  98.3        128.9              3.7         5.3           26,568      24,321
Metallic Products                    9                 41.4                 151.7        142.6             12.7        13.7           11,945      10,409
Non~etalllc Minerals                 3                140.8                 176.4        184.6              7.0        13.0           25,200      32,964
Paper and Prlnting                  13                 47.1                 135.6        132.8             12.1        15.5           11,207       8,569
Textiles                             3                 40.3                 216.7        184.6            184.6        19.7           11,000      10,067
Wood and Furniture                   7                 28.0                 114.6        124.1              7.7        11.1           14,883      11,180
Other                               19                 87.3                 165.6        213.9             10.6         17.6          15,623      12.153
TOTAL Average                    100                 58.3                 229.9        240.6             11.9        15.6           19,319      15,423
.m                  urn.                 .uuu         3    3            .....        ..3            *-m- 3a
a/ A survey of 100 subloans financed under Loan 1834-CO (durlng 1981-82) conducted by CFP.
b/ In 1982 US$ (USSi * ColS64.1)
c/ Sales In 1982 price and exchange rate. Pre-project sales were adjusted for Inflation (consumer prlce Index) over the 1981-82 period C58.68) and
then converted Into USS using 1982 exchange rate.
d/ Sales per worker. Pre-project productivity Is also In 1982 prlces and exchange rate.
Source:  CFP                                                                                                                                    .
LCP12
Deember 1983



COLOM IA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 28: AVERAGE SU8PROJECT IMPACT SURVEY 11 a/
Average Subproject         Annual Sales C/                 Employment              Labor Productivity d/
Number of          Amount b/                 USS '000              (No. of Workers per Firm)             (USS)
Subprojects         USS '000             Pre-Project   Present       Pre-Project    Present         Pre-ProJect Present
Sub-borrowers' Asset Size
(USS)
Less than 0.15 million             394                 29.4                  78.1         90.3             12.4         17.7           6,298       5,102
More than 0.15 million              30                140.8                 538.5        561.7             73.9         76.0            7,287      7,391
Type of Industrial Activity
Apparel and Clothing                91                 32.9                 102.2        116.0             16.8         27.7            6,083      4,187
Chemical Products                   26                 56.6                 221.8        227.1             33.0         25.7            6,721      8,837
Electrical Machinery                 6                 79.8                 207.3        351.8             21.7        33.2            9,553      10,596
Food and Beverages                  64                 36.3                 110.5        119.6             11.8         15.9            9.364      7.522
Leather Goods                       12                 24.0                 113.7        118.5             13.1         14.9            8,679      7,953
Metallic Products                   40                 32.4                 130.7        134.8             17.8         23.0            7,343      5,861
Non-Metallic Mlnerals               25                 36.6                 116.8        127.4             25.4         30.6            4,598      4,163
Paper and Printing                  34                 28.6                  86.7         92.5             12.8         15.6            6,773      5,288
Textiles                            26                 25.0                  63.6         85.3             13.8         20.6            4,609      4.141
Wood and Furniture                  49                 16.6                  98.2        123.7             17.2         22.6            5,709      5,473
Other                               51                 26.6                  90.6        140.6             13.6         15.8            6,662      8,899
Overall Average                  424                 33.5                 110.7        123.7             16.8        21.F             6,589      5,674
"as                  3333u                                              -was. *-U                   sum. m*-u.-
a/ A survey of 424 subloans financed by CFP durlng 1980-81.
b/ In 1982 USS (USSI * CoIS64.1)
c/ sales in 1982 price and exchange rate. Pre-project sales were adjusted for Inflation (consumer price Index) over the 1980-8I perlod (61.3%) and
then converted Into USS usIng 1982 exchange rate.
Sales per worker. Pra-project productivity Is also In 1982 prices and exchahy rate.
Source:  CFP
LCP12
December 1983



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 29: EMFLOYMENT GENERATION AND ITS COST ON AN AVERAGE SUB-BORROWER
Survey I a/                                                          Survey 11 b/
New Jobs Created   Employment Growth   Investment Cost per Year       New Jobs Created   Employment Growth   Investment Cost per Job
(Number)             ES)                     (USS)                    (Number)              (5)                     (USS)
Sub-borrower Asset Size
Less than 0.15 million               3.1                 35.4                   11,645                      5.3                42.3                     4,792
More than 0.15 million               7.5                 23.2                   27,600                      2.1                  2.9                   48,552
Type of Industrlal Activity
VI
Apparel and Clothing                 2.6                 16.5                   15,538                     10.9                65.0                      3,018
Chemical Products                    3.8                 24.4                   29,184                     -7.2               -22.1
Electrical Machinery                 1.7                 14.7                  15,529                      11.5                53.1                     6,939
Food and Beverages                   4.4                 32.3                   12,614                      2.9                34.4                    12,517
Leather Goods                        1.6                 42.3                   10,000                      1.8                 14.0                   13,333
Metallic Products                    1.0                  7.9                   41,000                      5.2                29.1                     6.231
Non-metalilc Minerals                6.0                 85.7                  23,'67                       5.2                20.3                     7,038
Paper and Printing                   3.5                 28.7                   13.457                      2.8                21.9                    10,214
Textiles                            -1.3                 -6.8                      -                       6.9                 50.0                     3,623
Wood Furniture                       3.4                 44.4                    8,235                      5.4                31.2                     3,074
Other                                6.9                 65.3                   12,652                      2.2                 16.0                   12,091
Overall Average                    3.7                 31.1                   15,757 c/                   5.1                30.1                     6,569
eu                 .=a..                  =....                                             .... .......
e/  A survey of 100 subloans financed under Loans 1834-CO (during 1981-82) conducted by CFP.
b/  A survey of 424 subloans financed by CFP during 1980-81.
c/ Overall average Investment costs per job for the Third Small-Scale Industry Project are slightly lower Can estimated US514,000) malnly due to a relatively
higher share of the chemical and metalilc products subsectors (which have higher than average Investment costs per Job) In the sample.
Source: CFP
LCP12
Decmber 1983



O)LO MIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Table 30: SALES AND PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH IN AN AVERAGE SUB-BORROWIER
Survey I a/                                                                 Survey 11 b/
Sales Grovth C/  Emp loyment Grovth O/  Labor ProductIvity Grouth */    Sales Growth e/  Employmnt Groath d/  Labor Productlvlty Growth */
(53                 (53                        (53                        (53                  (5)                         (53
Sub-borrowerst Asset Size
1US$)
Less then 0.15 mIllon               0.6                33.4                        21.7                       15.6                42.3                         1S-.
Ne than 0.15 mIIIIon                B.1                23.3                       -12.3                        4.3                 2.9                          1-4
Type of Industrial Activity
Apprerl and Fotwear               -17.2                16.5                       -29.9                       13.5                65.0                        -31.2
Chemical Products                  64.4                24.4                        32.2                        2.4               -22.1                         16-5
Electlical Madhlnery              -37.0                14.7                       -45.1                       69.7                53.1                         10.8
Food and Beverages                -16.1                32.3                       -36.6                       892                 34.4                       -19.5
Lather Goods                       31.1                42.3                        -7-9                        4.2                14.0                         -8-6
Metallic Products                  -6.0                 7.9                       -12.9                        3.1                29.1                        -20-1
Non-etalilc Products                4.6                85.7                       -43.7                        9.1                20.3                        -9-3
Paper and PrInting                  -2.1               28.7                       -23.9                       -4.8                21.8                        -21-8
Textlles                          -14.9               -6.8                         -9-9                       34.1                50.0                       -10.6
Wood and Furniture                  8-3                44.4                        25.0                       25.0                31.2                         -4-0
Other                              29.2                65.3                       -21.8                       55.2                16.0                         33.8
Overall Average                   4-7                31.1                       -20.1                       11.7                30.1                        -14-1
*--~~~nw                                  =*Ru-                      ""*- 
a/ A survey of 100 subloans financed under Loan 1834-CO (durlng 1981-82) conducted by CFP.
b/ A survey of 424 subloans financed by CFP durlng 1980-SI.
c/  In real terms oer a two year period (Survey I :1990-82. Survey 11: (1979-SI).
d/ Growth over a two yer period (Survey I : 1980-82, Survey 11 : 1979-91).
e/Prerentaer Average over two year period (Survey I : 1990-2, Survey II i1979-81).
Source: CFP
LCPI 2
DOecber 1983



-67-                              ANNEX 3
T-31
STFF AMEA1SAL IS
(FlUF S     Y31SI  E ItDUSICIERY IW
Table 31: CFP lendg Program, 198447
(CDL$ diIjs)
LIzr  of Credit           1984           1985          1986          1987           1984-7
Ow Pmnerces                 493   11.0  1,300   18.3  1,973   20.8   2,736  19.7    6,502  18.6
Dmtc  1orrcNing:           3,070   68.2  4,050   57.0  5,05D   53.2   7,400  53.2   19,570  55.9
Natina G_erxumi            100    2.2    200    2.8    230    2.1    M0    1.4        700   2.0
FF1                      2,000   44.4  2,700   38.0  3,400   35.8   5,000  36.0   13,100  37.4
PZE9CX59                  800   17.8  1,000   14.8  1,350   14.2   2,100  15.1    5,300  15.1
IFI                        90    2.0    100    1.4    100    1.1    100   0.7         390   1.1
IFC                        80    1.8      -      -      -      -        -     -        80  0.2
External Borrtwdngs:        937   20.8  1,750   24.6  2,477   26.1   3,764  27.1    8.928  25.5
31W                        350    7.8     -      -      -      -        -     -       350   1.0
CIMA                       -       -      -      -      227    2.4    264   1.9       491   1.4
IDE)                       5571/ 13.0  1.750   24.6  2,250   23.7   3,502/ 25.2    8,087  23.1
TX&AL                  4,500  100.0  7,100  100.0  9,500  100.0  13,900 100.0   35,000 100.0
:-                                  - CmP
1/  Incluies Col$187 dillion fran lam 1857-00.
2/  of bidh Cbl$800 nd.liUm fron the foixth loan.
DBer 1983



- 68-
ANNEX 3
T-32
00LOCIA
STAFF APRM14L RElORT
FOURTH SWILL-SCALE IDUSlT PROJCT
CAROACIN FINWCIERA PFPULR
Table 32 0ALMC SHEET PRDJECTIIIS, 19U6-87
CCoiS thousandsl
1963         1964        1981        19E6         19H7
ASSETS
Cb                                     14U,951      103.201     204,65B     245,266      356.66
Leen debts                           5,531,528    7.2U8.775   10,065,225   13.577.221   19.060.025
Debts by Extrcuos Pnpo                265.600       361.600     551,600     74t,600    t1,71.600
Other                                 602,12B       7e4,278    1,050,478    1.405.743    1.450.890
DEFERRED ASSETS                           65.436        43.836     126.336      166.936     231,736
Intersts pald In advanc                61.729       89.124      122,724     160,324     224,128
Otter deferred asets                    3.707        4.707        5.607       6,607       7.607
OTDS ASSETS                              351.149       465.449     550,149     687.449      872.449
Intest and closlons to be charged   66,740          41,49t      126.040     169,740     238_O40
Paymnts                                69,064        85.064     104,664      116,964     145.364
Other debts                           215,29W      239,3        319.195     401,145      406.69
F)IED ASSETS                              47,074       206,174     247.479     259,474      277,074
Sul lilng                              45,169       170,469     202,49      202.969      202,964
Forniture, fIxtures nd equipment       21,340        79.240     101,640     136,140      160,040
Vehicles                                1.513        2,513        2,513       2,513       2,513
Land                                    1,533         1,533       1.533       1,533        1.533
Less:  Accumlated depreciatlon         (29.496)     142.546)    (61,1461    1(3,696)   (109,996t
Valorization                          237,00o       174,600     204,200     227,500      765,500
07TAL ASSETS                       7,349,688    9.503.368  13,002,175   17,311.696   24.206.153
LIABILITIES                            5,219,602    6,876,532   9.673.089  13,231,097   19.000.197
Credits by Loans
Line of Credit                      2,185,661     3,142.061    6,241,916    5.506.118   7,612,018
Bondt in circulation                   11,300        -            -           -
Exteral Rasources                   2.809.319    3,409,119   4,902.814    6.120,655   9,t65,255
Otter credits                          11.822        11,672      11,472      11,272       11.072
Credits: Extrecupos Proexpo               201 .500     313.680     516,810     706,980   1,074.280
Otter Credits                            567,311       719,711    1,165.411    1.395,211    2.033.911
Pansion fnds                           66,200        90.500     172,100      163,100     216.500
Other accounts                        5001ti1       629,211    1,043,311    1,432,111    1,817,411
Estimated tlabilitles and provisions     128.721       157,271     219,771     282.336      395,791
Deferred Llablilty                       153,600       201,800     27680O    375.400       527.600
lTDAL LIABILITIES                  6,069,314    7,955,314   11,332,071   15,484,044  21.957.499
ET wCm                                  1,280,554    1.548,054   1,670,054    1.827.654   2,246,654
caplitl                                787,616    1,038,916    1,030,916    1,038,916    1,23.916
Reserves                               20W459       260,154     328,454     426,354      560,659
Protfts                                58,200        68,0D0      97,400      134,300     182,000
Surplus by valorization               2D2,574       100,174     206,774     228,074      266,074
TOTAL NET WRTH AND LIABILITIES     7,349.868    9.03,368   13,002,125   17,311,648  24,206.153
LCP12
Jary 1984



- 69 -
Annez 3
ADST                                          T-33
Tal 33:  WlSllD SC  SUAD  WE15   PM, 198*W7
(Con$ Unmade)
1934      l95       I6       3w
Not Pwfita                                68.8       97.4     134.3    1830
lkprnd&te                                 13.1       18.6      22.5     26.3
Proelm s      -                           17.2       24.4      36.6    45.7
Fobrtfo   Rat                          1,953.7    3.2300   4.650.0  6,34100
cextnl  _na                              251.1       -         -       20.0
lbrtfoio Enqnradnto O(tmpos)            447.4      630.0    81O.0  1,12.0
tdgu aBudFt                              Li"        20.0      200.0    200.0
1of ts  at                             2,543.0    2,62D.0   3,0.0  4,K0.0
F.F.I. em  Adiat      Rmoms          1,700.0    2,295.0   29.0   4,25Q0
Pr                                     180.0     23.0      315.0    450.0
]PI                                   10                  1MO  D    I.O
Pwazeqo ab=mp-)                          540.0      720.0    9DD.0  144.0
eBlxu  PcUC                              899.6    1,800.4   236.2  3,}2.B
World st                              608.0    1,772.0   2.187.0  3,275.0
VW                                    219.6       58.4      -        -
cmt                                    -          -        189.2    257.8
Pof<oll of Dmbfu l      gewwm            179.5      24.2      333.5    454.7
FEtdsM  lidl   ad ProviSm                1.2.5      133       13.8     15.7
Torie_   In Ieeie                         582        68.8      97.4    1343
Tinume In othr ard.ts                      -        161.7     209.B    23B.7
Tints in  dcm  lI taItItm                 4.2        77.0      966    152.2
Tints In spin  wiodaro                   (M52.4)     24.6      23.3     38.0
Oter                                      81.7        -        -
mmL  RESQl                         6.800.9   140..4  13.2060 1.971.4
U-E
AmmtUrcoan of UaEblItles               1.737.8    2,289JB   3,003.2 430z7
Ursra oE Ctzt                          1,097.4    1,5Z.1   2,MM   2,649.1
F.F.I.                                735.6    1,194.7   1.664.4  2,253.9
PRoanpo                               195.6      154.6    234.7    342.3
Otbr                                   116.2     165.9    141.7    52.9
Pm,o   (Eccupc)                          427.9      516.8    708.4  1,079.2
omIn Crajadx                              11.3        -        -        -
Vasesal huomas                           3251.1     252.7    253.3   235.2
Wwld B                                 251.1     25L7      251.4    230.4
(kdt Frm o                             4,500.0    7,100.   9,500.0 13,900.0
tCmzy P                                3,800.0    6,300.    8,50.0  12300.0
Emqm f  r                                600.0      80.    1,000.0  1,600.0
_mees                                    116.4      178.2    275.3    34.7
d A   Tnvensgt                          122.2       59.9    . 34.5    43.9
Vadens   In.mflty SecIbadsn               56.2       68.8      97.4    13
Pecfo  panty                              45.1       54.6      78.1    104.7
Tm                                         5.2       14.3      3.2      37.2
mlcins I      an     at14                          11.8 au    1        184.5
ine   in  es_a                            28A.4      34.5      38.6    64.8
eM In vaidaim                             52.9       24.6      23.3    38.0
Txm   en me                                -        I.5       40.6    U16
7LN                                6,806.9   10.4        6.0  18,971.4
w1216
Ihy 1984



-70 -
ANNEX 3
T-34
FERT  91L-SCA1E DWSTfl  pJEr
CORPORA=I FANIERA, oFaLAR
Table 34: SIAIMENIT OF INOC   AND EXEDITURES, 1984-87
(CDl$ th,sands)
1984      1985      1986     1987
QCrrent Interest                     1,357.2    2,013.8   2,748.7  3,743.8
Delayed Interest                      344.4      481.4    655.3    904.0
Return on Investunm t                  55.2       42.4     126.4    175.0
Inmm from trade finacing               41.2       79.6    101.4    125.3
Other proflts                         115.6       64.3      46.7    124.0
TOUtAL INOOME                      1,916.1    2.732.5   3,728.0  5.141.6
FinmnaLal expenses                   1,164.3    1,698.1   2,367.5  3,341.4
Operating eqpnses                     570.0      766.0    495.8  1,294.6
DepredatIon iw113.1                               18.6      22.5     26.3
Other ecpaspe                           5.0        6.5       8.5     11.0
MTAL EXPENSES                      1.792.4    2484.2   3,39   4,673.3
0RSs PROFIT                              161.7      243.3      33.7    468.3
lass: Provision for Pbrtfolio            103.5      163.3    218.5    314.7
Operational Utility (loss)                58.2       80.0     115.2    148.6
Piss: Other Profits (Eatracupos)          27.8       41.8      52.7    80.1
Utility (loss) before taxes               86.0      121.8    167.9   228.7
Less: ProvfL-icx for tae                  12.2       24.4      33.6    45.7
Net profit (loss)                         68.8       97.4    134.3    183.0
I1P12
Jammy 1984



- 71 -
Annex 3
T-35
~ NW RDNT
UORL1 SAUrWAIE I       lXEf  1W
aMLQI F          tl~~CINRA E3RUIA
Tabe 35:  EX  9EIIAL INCAT(RS, 1984-87
1984  1985  1986 1987
BP.-Efiality/(eraiLawl Perfomzsxe
luie Items as Z of hmerge Total Assets
Groess Incie                                       22.7  24.3  24.6 24.8
ELoarrlal Expe                                     L3.8  15.1  15.6  16.1
Adisrtmtae Edq2ees                                  6.8   6.8   6.6  6.2
Pr1wlsor and D     1epreia                          1.2   1.5   1.4  1.5
Net 1Inome beore Taxes                              1.0   1.1   1.1  1.1
Nt  1nce after Ties                                 0.8   0.9   0.9  0.9
imm  I      ast  Z of Awrag Equty
Net li   before Tase                                6.1   7.6   9.6  11.2
Net Income after Tins                               4.9   6.1   7.7  9.0
Tzme framm6    as  Z of Average Portfolo             21.2  23.2  23.3  23.2
Fida1 Expeues    Z of Averg   rromigs                16.6  17.6  17.6  17.8
Grss S ead                                           4.8   5.6   5.7  5.9
Prowisfos as Zof Iam Prtfo3io                         3.0   3.1   2.9  2.9
Finanl St ue
Total De/Ebt/Lty                                   5.1   6.8   8.5  9.8
Fornxd  EkorrowiLrpas Z of Total Borroings         43.8  43.1  41.1 40.8
Tota8l G(uth Rate
Total Assets                                       29.3  36.8  33.1 39.8
Net Iname after Taxes                               17.0  41.6  37.9 36.3
Pbrtfolio                                          31.3  38.1  34.9 40.5
Equity                                             20.9   7.9   9.4 23.0
IC12
W 1984



- 72 -
ANlEC 4
S1hW AFFSL  -
Fa 9NMUM CASCAME n n:rJP
Esmmm qILLY DEsumw sa _i 9 uS IQ im l/
(US$ mnlmm)
I= Fiscal Year                Disbhram ta            emulative
and Qarter                    in Quater             Dlsbzremat
FT 85
March31, 1985                   0.8                   0.8
June 30. 1985                   1.2                   2.0
FYf86
Septber 30, 1985                1.2                   3.2
Deombe 31, 1985                 1.6                   4.8
Marc 31, 1986                   2.4                    7.2
Jun 30, 1986                    2.0                   9.2
FYr87
September 30, 1986              5.6                  14.8
Deceuber 31, 1986               4.4                   19.2
March31, 1987                   3.6                  22.8
June3D, 1987                    4.4                   27.2
Fy 88
September 3D, 1987              4.4                  31.6
December 31, 1987 2/            1.2                  32.8
Mardc 31, 1988                  1.6                  34.4
June 30. 1988                   1.2                   35.6
7i89 
September 30, 1988              2.6                  37.6
Derqmber 31, 1988 31            2.6                  40.0
1/  BRs   m avea   disbursemeit profiles under tie previouas thee lows.
2/  Estimted emi date for ahuxssim of sublam.
3/  Clkgi1  Date.
I&12
Fekruaxy 1984.



ARNEM 5
- 73 -
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SNALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Sector Reports
Al. Cambio con Equidad: Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, 1983-1986,
Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, 1983.
A2. Plan Nacional para el Desarrollo de la Microempresa, Departamento
Nacional de Planeacion, 1983.
A3. Programa de Desarrollo para la Microempresa, CFP, 1982.
A4. Una Vision sobre el sector Microempresarial: Su Desarrollo y
Perspectivas, CFP, 1983.
A5. Flexibilizacion de las tasas de Interes del Credito de Fosento, BR,
1983.
A6.  Encuesta Anual, 1983, CFP's report on its annual survey of clients.
B.   Project Reports
Bi.  Situacion de la Cartera Vencida, CFP, 1983.
32. CFP Audit Report, 1979 - June 30, 1983.
B3. Informe de Labores, 1979-1982, CFP.
C.   Documents Related to Project Implementation
Cl. CFP's Credit Manual.
C2. Politicas Administrativas Generales, CFP, 1983.
C3.  Guia de Credito Institucional, CFP, 1983.
C4.  CFP's Draft Action Program, 1984-87, CFP, 1984.



FoReR->'^tco~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IK JULO
.  .   '       .  01Ptft               S/.tkq
r' t.              C-Att, C   :C:4N;OO   *A Y"A  lgJ-  
IhetaeTLMAjzt;                 Mt E   p 
4 cmitt    >                                    !r    X 4
l  <    C A lrC(A   5>HUghi, t    l-                      U  A I N I A    <  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lcl
f/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e7AF 1M u               IA
f4~~~~~~~~~~~~ol noz %       lrnl             AUPES       ~     ' ''          ~     4
- t< N A R ltN/>\ C -A  QUETLA1\<>-  |>J
70    al-    AUt  >   "s1  vA                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*"   <-\   .-_r-X&Q4 >s   <     ,     .                               o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLVI
-~~~ANAMA~       ~                                                    ARMAZONAS
*   CfP a e<Ol o+<e.                                 |   R   ANZRIE
*   CFP Pranot;onol CH{;r   DE;1
T~~            Nei Coae                    <._0~\                            
* tw*tRpo;N/WJ90|W*
a. .    ,           .   ub
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I






