l~~~~~I
5                              X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'   g S ,|        llt      Z     l i|             !



CURRENCY EQ}VALETS
Currency Unit - Peso -CoS
Average Calendar 1982                            Average Calendar 1983
US$1  - Col$64.102                               UJSl  - Col$78.861
CoISI  - US$0.0156                               ColSI - USSO.0127
Exchange Rate Effective May 31. 1984
USS1.00   -  Col$98.47
Col$1_00 - US$0.0102
Weights and Measurer
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIhflOLIS
BR              Banco de la Republica (The Central Bank)
CFP             Corporacion      cra Popul
DFC             Development Flnance Company
FFI             Fondo Fiianciero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
IDB             Intererican Development Bank
PROEXPO         Fondo de Procion de Exportaciomes (Export Promotion Fund)
SEA             Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Vocational
Training Organization)
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNIDO           United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL TEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL-SCAIE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMWARY
Borrower:       Banco de la Republica (BR)
CGuarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:    Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
Amount:         US$40 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee
of US$99,751.
Terms:          17 years, including four years nf grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending       Banoo de la Republica would relend the proceeds of the loan
Terms:          to CFP in pesos, and CFP would make serwice payments to Banco
de la Republica whenever this shall be required to meet
service payments on the Bank's loan. Any net losses to Banco
de la Republica as a result of covering the foreign exchange
risk would be charged by Banco de la Republica to the Govern-
ment's Foreign Exchange Special Account administered by Banco
de la Republica.
Banco de la R.'epublica would charge interest: (i) on the
credit component of the project, at rates 4.5 or 5 percentage
points lower than the interest rates on subloans made by CFP
for investment projects located, respectively, in the major
metropolitan areas or outside these areas; and (ii) on the
technical assistance component of the project, at 12Z per
annum.
CFP would on-lend the proceeds of the loan for 4 to 10 years,
including 1 to 3 years of grace, at a rate representing the
weighted average of a variable and a fixed interest rate as
follows: for each sub-loan, 15Z of the principal would bear
interest at the rate payable on 90-day certificates of
deposit plus 3 percentage points, and 85% of the principal
would bear interest at a fixed rate to be agreed semiannually
with the Bank (initially 26% p.a. for subprojects in the
metropolitan areas and 24% p.a. outside the larger centres)
and established by Banco de la Republica. At the end of the
first full year of operation of the line (December 1985) BR,
CFP and the Bank would review the variable/fixed proportions
of the interest rates with a view to increasing to 302 the
portion of the principal of each sub-loan subject to variable
Thi document ha a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofci dutics, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizion.



- ii -
interest rates. thus reducing commensurately the portion
tinder fixed rates. The new percentages would apply to
sub-loans approved after January 1, 1986. A similar review
12 months thereafter would seek to increase further the
proportion of market-determined rates in the weighted average
interest rates of the sub-loans.
Project          The proposed project would consist of the provision of: Ca)
Description:    medium- and long-tern credit through CFP to small and
medium-scale industries for fixed investment and permanent
working capital; and (b) technical assistance to CFP and           -
small scale industrialists.
Project Risks:  Even though the project involves no special risks,
insufficient Government equity contributions to CFP, delays
in strenthening CFP's regional offices, slower than expected
recovery of small-scale industrv, and fluctuations in
availability of local working capital Light affect project
implementation. However, agreements reached with the
Government regarding increases to CFP's equity base, together
with the Action Program to be carried out by CFP in close
collaboration with the Bank, should help ensure achievement
of project objectives.
Estimated Cost:_I
CUS$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreign   Total
Construction and installation               8.9        2.2       11.1
Imported machinery (CIF)                     -         7.5        7.5
Imported machinery acquired locally        10.6       13.7      24.3
Locally manufactured machinery             13.2        6.1       19.3
Woreing capital                            45.6        5.0       50.6
Technical assistance                        0.7        0.4        1.1
Front-end fee                                -         0.1        0.1
79.0      35.0      114.0
Financing Plan:
(USS million equivalent)
Local     Foreign   Total        _
CFP                             4.5         _         4.5        4
Fnterprises                     30.5        -        30.5       27
Other local sources             39.0        -        39.0       34
IBRD                            5.0        35.0      40.0 a/   35
79.0       35.0    114.0       100
a/ Includes capitalized front-end fee of US$99,751.
1/ Taking account of Bank estimates of inflation and peso depreciation, as
of January 1984.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:           (USS millions)
IBRD      FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88   FYP9
Annual       2.0     7.2    18.0    8.4    4.4
Cumulative   2.0     9.2    27.2   35.6   40.0
Rate of Return:  The financial rates of return on the subprojects are
expected to average about 15% and be no less than 12Z.
The economic rates of return are, bowever, likely to be
higher, primarily because prices of input materials are
somevhat inflated as a result of the protection involved
while, on the other hand, most small-scale industry products
are openly traded so that market prices reflect eoconomic
values. As a norm, therefore, the typical products of
small-scale industries have lower protection rates than the
corresponding inputs.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4929b-CD, dated June 14, l984.



INTERNATIO1NAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT A19D RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$40 MILLION
TO BANCD lE IA REPUBLICA
FOR A FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and reconmendation on a proposed loan
to Banco de la Republica with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia for
the equivalent of US$40 million. including a capitalized Eront-end fee of
US$99,751. to help finance a fourth small-scale industry project.  The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate. BR would bear the interest risk on the
loan and the responsibility for the foreign exchange risk, including the
cross-currency risk_ Any net losses to BR as a result of covering the
foreign exchange risk would be charged by BR to the Government's Foreign
Exchange Special Account administered by BR_ BR would relend the loan
proceeds in Colombian pesos to CFP under terms and conditions discussed in
paragraphs 47 to 50.
PART I - TEE ECONOKYl/
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. Also, a mission to review the external sector and agriculture
visited Colombia during April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section reflects
both missions' major findings. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all.  Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured gMods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
1/ This section substantially unchanged Erom Part I of the report for the
Rio Grande Multipurpose Project (No. P-384±-CO of June 1, 1984).



- 2 -
6&.       Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.22 on average during the
1950-83 period. with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This vas the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5Z range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's pcpilation is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0Z.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue untUi the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 502 and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the g.eatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefited more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



- 3 -
the Andean Group countries. Fxport promotion policies, including frequlent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. Rowever, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official sturrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social irfrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance compa-
nies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



- 4 -
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4X in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       Tn 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5% in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982 and to about 12 in 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low
international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial
activity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and
unutilized capacity cont-inued to increase, particularly in manufacturing.
After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about USS1.5 billion, which continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 9X annually in real terms: major reasons were the slowdown in world
demand, a major devaluation and the introduction of import restrictions in
Venezuela-a major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about US$1,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent to about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. To a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a 20% average for the year, down from 282 in 1981 and 25Z in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Government has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic
production, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is
being accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during
1984; the housing construction industry is being provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are
being discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import
rescrictions are being introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The
stabilization measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled,
followed by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to
reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the
financial system. While these measures have been in the right direction,
there is need for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the
authorities. In particular, the country continues to be affected by the
tight international capital market in 1984, which together with a somewhat
slower export growth than expected by the Government, have produced further
declines in foreign exchange reserves. The continuing pressure on the
external sector has brought to the Government's attention the need for
further and timely actions to reverse the current trends. Such a policy
package would need to include export promotion, external resource mobili-
zation, promotion of foreign investment, fiscal and mDnetary measures.



-5-
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development
objectives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This
strategy emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the
benefits of development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved
through increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the
process of economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the
resumption of growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy
strengthens the previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of
supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and
on policy measures designed to increase economic efficiency and raise
institutional capacity. It proposes a continuation of the large effort in
public investment, giving high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial
projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market. The development
plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and
contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial
policy objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with
adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to
invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign
markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign
investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also to be
strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused upon
improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverage of services
and strengthening the social service institutions. Programs in the housing,
health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integrated, and
selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the informal
sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention. Combined with a significant expansion in construction of
low-income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development
(DRI) program, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia
became a net oil importer in the mid 1970s and, in recent years, 10-15% of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources--
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study



- 6 -
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a
considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for "incremental  and "new  crude provide
adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products
have been increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole,
international levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services c_uld
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment i5 projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,312 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mDbiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In particular, the size
of the overall Central Government deficit will have to be reduced signifi-
cantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee tax revenues and
receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which has declined in
recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and better tax



- 7 -
administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be checked; resources
will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of
measures to tackle some of these issues was approved by Congress in 1983,
including measures related to broadening the base and increasing the average
rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect taxes, reducing the
earmarking of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and strengthening tax
administration which are expected to have an effect in 1984. Additional
actions on the expenditure side are expected to follow. Since this effort is
likely to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high.  Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
recession in some of traditional Colombian markets, in addition to the need
to increase imports to develop the country's resource potential and restore
higher economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of pay-
ments is projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86, equiva-
lent to 4% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be financed by
reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the
end of this period, net official international reserves would have fallen to
a level of about three months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 4% during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a leveling-off of imports resulting from increased domestic production of
petroleum. The current account deficit would gradually fall to about 1% of
GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of about 4% per annum during
1984-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 19% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$6.1
billion in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.0 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$0.9 billion during 1984-86. This should provide about 15% of
the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 85% (US$5.2 billion)
about US$2.5 billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured
from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, US$2.7
billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial markets and supp-
liers' credit sources. At the end of 1982, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$6.2
billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 227. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing from commer-
cial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 20% during 1983-86.



- 8 -
The public debt service ratio at tne end of 1982 was 182 and is expected to
climb to 25Z by 1986, peak at about 27Z in 1988 and the decline gradually to
24Z In 1990. The lWorld Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
remain below 252 during 1983-86. With continued sound economic ain financial
anagement*, Colombia is ecpected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1984-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAIXONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 105th to be -ade to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to USS4,073.3 million (net oE cn
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1984, US$2,981.3
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for bLgbways in 1961.
Disbursements have been completed on 66 loam and the IDA credit. Before
1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had
increased to US$250 million per year by 1982, US$294.5 million in 1983,
reflecting the higher level of coomitments in the late 1970s. Mhile
disbursements In Colombla have been slower than those recorded in the Latin
American Region for similar projects, concentrated efforts to overcome
problems to initiate project execution have resulted in a 18% Increase in
disbursements during FY83 compared to the previous year and in the current
year disbursements have continued at the higher level. The gradually
improving performance of social sector institutions In the execution of
Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures and
the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which sbould improve
counterpart funding, and the increased Bank lending for infrastructure
projects, all point to a higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC
has made investments am! underwriting commitments of US$119.9 million in 29
enterprises and as of March 31, 1984, it held US$48.0 million. Anmn It
contains a suary statement of Bank loans, the IDk credit and TFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 882 of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 532 of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport anm power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 392 were for power and traasport, 182 for agricul-
ture projects, 172 for industrial projects, 52 each for projects in water
supply, telecommunications, irrigation and urban development and 52 for
education and nutrition projects. The diversification was indeed a desirable
aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's
development problems. The experience gained bas served to identify areas in
which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending
to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaning-
ful impact.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY83 consisted of loans for rural basic
education and agricultural research totalling US$78.4 million equivalent. In
addition to the loan presented in this report, the current program includes



- 9 -
the already approved loans for coal exploration, power sector financing,
earthqua  reconstruction, multipurpose water and power development, and
agricultural diversification. To assist Colombia in the face of adverse
economic conditions, efforts have been stepped up to associate Bank lending
with directly productive projects, such as the loan presented in this report
and the recentlv approved agricultural diversification project. Work is also
underway on projects for export development, petroleum, electricity
distribution, development finance, agricultural extension and marketing,
roads, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation, for possible consideration
by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
73.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy,
a sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. Bank
financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major
institutions and in mobilizing external finance, particularly tbrough the
launching of a new power sector development facility, as most of the projects
would require substantial cofinancing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government In its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to ircrease and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for
infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing Inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian popula-
tion. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, and irrigation projects are principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are sbown in
Annex 1. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75Z of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-R2 period and is expected to
decline fiurther to about 40Z of external capital requirements during the
eighties. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related
projects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control which are aimed at improving living standards
of the lower income population. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs tn education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND SMAIL-SCALE INDUSTRY
Industry in Colombia
25.       Between the late 'forties and the late 'seventies, Colombia's
manufacturing sector experienced rapid growth. At first, industrial expan-



- 10 -
sion was spurred by policies favoring import substitution, and was supported
by the provision of Infrastructure and public services. By 1967, local
industry supplied the internal market with most consumer gDods, about two-
thirds of intermediate products and about one-half of capital goods. In
1966-67, the Government adopted an outward-looking development strategy that
emphasized export expansion and diversification, which was consistently
applied into the mid-seventies. With the large growth and diversification of
manufactured exports, industrial octput gained impetus and 9D did employment;
bet-ween 1967 and 1974, the growth rate for the sector reached an annual aver-
age of 8.6Z. By 1982, employment in manufacturing reached about 2 million
and the contribution of manufacturing to Colombia's gross domestic product
equalled 17%. This resulted from a combination of natural resources, human
skills, entrepreneurial initiative and Government policy.
26.       At the end of the 'seventies, industrial expansion ground to a
halt. Subsequently, weakened international demand, competition from contra-
band and substantial devaluation of the currencies of Colombia's foremost
Latin American trading partners led to a decline in manufacturing production
and exports.  At the same time, export receipts accumtlated during the coffee
boom and an overvalued exchange rate boosted demand for imported products-
As a result, consumer goods industries, which during the 'sixties and 'seven-
ties saw their share of industrial output decline from ebout 80% to about
50Z, have assumed greater importance at the expense of industries producing
iutermediate and capital goods.
27.       Reacting to falling foreign exchange reserves resulting from
rapidly decreasing export receipts in the early 'eighties, the Government
took protectionary measures, introducing licenses for most imports and
raising customs duties. Simultaneously, to enhance Colombia's ability to
compete abroad, some additional export incentives were offered through higher
tax rebates for exported goods and later - in 1983 - the rate of currency
depreciation was accelerated.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
28.       Small- and medium-scale industry2/ plays a significant role in
Colombia's industrialization, particularly ihere economies of scale are less
important. It employs about two-fifths of the industrial labor force and is
responsible for nearly one-fourth of the value added in manufacturing. On
the other band, small- and medium-scale industry exports only a small
fraction of its output; in the four years 1978-81, production for export
averaged about 2.5% of the total output. A salient feature of the small- and
medium-scale industry is its impact on employment; recent studies show that,
compared with large-scale industry, it has generated up to three times as
many jobs per unit of invested capital. Moreover, small- and medium-scale
industry absorbs a higher proportion of unskilled workers and is less depend-
ent on imported inputs.
2/ Colombia's Department of Statistics has defined small and medium-scale
industry as comprising enterprises with 5-99 workers, with -small-scale-
applying to firms employing 5-49 workers. With the introduction of
special measures to support micro-enterprises , the definition of small-
and medium-scale industry now includes firms with 10 or more employees.



- 11 -
29.       Another characteristic of small- and medium-scale industry is its
much more even distribution throughout Colombia's interior, than is the case
with large-scale industry. Because of the country's difficult topography and
the concomitant high cost of transport, a number of regional markets have
evolved.  Kost of these markets are served by small-scale industry, whereas
large industrial establishments are heavily concentrated around Bogota,
medellin, and Cali. Related to their distinctive location is the reliance of
small- and medium-scale industry on self-financing, while large-scale indus-
try enjoys easy access to financial institutions- Since 1978, over 50Z of
funds for small- and medium-scale industry has come from the entrepreneurs"
own resources and 29Z from the financial svstem, compared with 25Z and 48%,
respectively, for industry as a whole; for the remainder, small- and medium-
scale industry relied mainly on the extra-bank market.
30.       In the face of economic fluctuations, small- and medium-scale
industry has shown a record of greater resilience than the industrial sector
as a whole; its output grew considerably faster in the late 'seventies than
total manufacturing output and overall industrial activity declined in the
early 'eighties while small- and medium-scale industry did not. Nonetheless,
in Colombia as in other developing countries, small- and medium-scale
industry faces many obstacles. Preeminent among them are insecure supplies
of raw materials, inadequate technology and inefficient management, and
limited access to technical assistance and credit. As to the shortage of
institutional credit, small firms, by virtue of their geographic dispersion
and other characteristics, frequently lack information about available credit
sources; thils is compounded by the commercial banks and private DFCs'
reluctance to lend to them because of collateral and similar requirements.
31.       Except for supporting Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) and some
smaller entities providing small and medium-size enterprises with financial
or technical assistance, past Government policy toward this segment of
Industry has generally not been well-defined or coordinated. In an effort to
remedy this, an Advisory Council for Small- and Medium-Scale Industry has
been established to devise policy addressing the specific needs of small-
scale industry. It consists of ranking representatives of the Ministry of
Economic Development, the National Planning Department, CFP, the National
Vocational Training Service (SERA), the Export Promotion Fund (PROEXPO), the
Colombian Association of Small Manufacturers, and some other public sector
entities. Through its working groups and the Industrial Sector Planning
Division of the Ministry of Economic Development, the Advisory Council is
drawing up guidelines for financial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale industry.  In the context of the 1983-86 National Deve;,pment
Plan, the Government has recently announced policy measures for capital goods
industry and for industrial assembly operations, whicb are expected to
benefit indirectly small- and medium-scale industry through sub-contracting.
Furthermore, tbe Government intends to assume a leading role in a program to
help small firms in the informal sector of the economy (the -micro-enter-
prises-). Ritherto, this program has been carried out by private founda-
tions, with a significant impact on employment. Thr-ough its ongoing dialogue
with the Government, the Bank is supporting this development.



- 12 -
Industrial Finance
32.       Colombia has a relatively well-developed and diversified financial
system consisting of a variety of specialized institutions, including commer-
cial banks, savings and loan associations, a central mortgage bank, public
and private development finance companies (DFCs), commercial finance compa-
nies, mutual funds, and stock exchanges in Bogota and Medellin. The 25
commercial banks account for well over one-third of total institutional
credit and have an exteosive domestic network of 1,800 branches.  In lending
to industry, commercial banks supplement their resources by availing them-
selves of specialized rediscounting facilities operated by Banco de la
Republica (BR, the central bank). The most important of these facilities are
the Industrial Financing Fund (FFI)  which rediscounts loans made to small-
and medium-scale industry; the Private Investment Fund, which finances mainly
the large industrial companies with funds obtained abroad; and PROEXPO, which
uses the proceeds of an import tax to provide export credit, mainly to
industry. The state-owned Caja Agraria, once a significant source of funds
for small business, now assists only the smallest agro-industrial firms on
concessional terms.
33.       Because of traditional lack of acceptable collateral, inadequate
accounting and the high cost of processing small loans, small-scale industry
has found it difficult to tap commercial sources of funds, particularly for
medium- and long-term credit. The bulk of commercial bank loans to small and
medium-size enterprises is immediately rediscounted with the FF1 or other
special credit facilities. While the amount of public funds available for
lending to small- and medium-scale industry has increased in the past decade,
the flow of the additional resources has been irregular, injecting an element
oE uncertainty into investment planning. Consequently, small-scale industry
stiLl relies heavily on the extra-bank market, and finds it more difficult
and costly to borrow than large-scale industry. To alleviate this problem,
the Government recently created a National Guarantee Fund, with CFP and the
Industrial Development Institute as shareholders. By guaranteeing their
obligations, the Fund would make institutional lending to small and medium-
size enterprises more secure.
34.       The cost of industrial credit varies greatly according to source.
As interest is often collected in advance and additional charges are levied,
the effective cost of borrowing is often higher than the nominal interest
rate. Most of the interest rate ceilings in the institutional market were
lifted in 1980. Effective rates have remained high in real terms (for
instance, 17% per annum in 1982 for commercial bank and DFC loans), because
of imbalances in the fiscal and financial systems and the overvalued exchange
rate. Medium and long-term rates charged by CFP and FFI in 1982 ranged from
18% to 26% per annum in nominal terms, with mDst loans yielding about 2Z per
annum in real term.. As inflation abated in 1983, CFP and FFI did not reduce
their nominal interest rates, thus yielding higher real rates. In December
1983, the Monetary Board approved a new interest rate structure for financial
intermediaries which avail themselves of FFI funds in lending to small and
medium-size enterprises. Instead of a fixed interest rate for the entire
amount, sub-loans made to small- and medium-scale industry by financial
intermediaries now bear a fixed rate on the part rediscounted with FFI,
whereas the balance carries interest at three percentage points above the
variable (and freely determined) rate on 90-day certificates of deposit.



- 13 -
This interest rate structure was designed to expose small and medium-size
enterprises gradually to free market rates and might induce commercial banks
and DFCs to lend to them because of improved spreads.
Technical Assistance
35.       A number of organizations render technical assistance to snmll- amd
medium-scale industry. The most comprehensimre progran is that of SENA, a
Government institute which operates vocational training facilities throughout
the country and provides free technical assistance to industrv, commerce and
the service sector.  SENk's assistance to small- and medium-scale industry
has recently been decentralized, with priorities for training services
determined at the regional level. Currently, some 60 experts provide
training to 500-600 smaU and mediumr-size enterprises each year.  Small firms
in the food processing and chemical industries benefit from technical
assistance in production processes from the Government's Institute for
Technological Research. PROEXPO helps export firms in quality control and
packaging, and offers broader assistance to the branches of manufacturing
industry with good export potential. The private Foundation for the
Development of Scientific and Technological Research ertends assistance to,
and holds seminars for small-scale industry. Other institutions, private
consultants and-increasingly--universities provide assistance by setting up
local programs or advising individual clients.
36.       Each year, 700-300 small and medium-size enterprises (representing
about 5% of the total) receive some kind of professional training or advice.
However, in contrast to financial assistance, technical assistance is rather
weak and poorly coordinated.  Definition of priorities is lacking at the
national level, as is cooperation among the various organizations at the
regional level. To some extent, this derives from the difficulty of defining
a global program appropriate for all the regions, given the diversity of
conditions and industrial activities. The nation-wide agreements entered
into by CFP and several of the technical assistance organizations have proved
ineffective; at present, the Government, CFP, and some private technical
assistance agencies are endeavoring to coordinate and streamline technical
assistance to small-scale industry at the regional level, starting with the
regions where some degree of coordination already exists.
Support by the Bank
37.       The Bank made its first loan for industrial development in Colombia
in 1963 to help Acerias Paz del Rio carry out a steel mill project. In trne
fifteen years 1966-80, there were eight loans, totalling US$492.5 million,
to Banco de la Republica to be on-lent by the DFCs for investment by medium-
and large-scale manufacturing industry. Additionally, in 1971 the Bank made
a US$60 million development program and export expansion loan to Colombia,
part of which was allocated for on-lending to agricultural and industrial
enterprises, and in 1978 thp Bank lent US$15 million to help set up an
industrial export processing zone in Cartagena. Tn 1975, 1977, and again in
1980, the Bank made available a total of US$52.5 million to Banco de la
Republica for CFP to provide finance for the small-scale manufacturing
industry (paragraphs 40-41). Further, USS2 million were allocated to very
small firms in 23 cities under the 1978 loan for the Bark's first urban
project in Colombia.



- 14 -
38.       Through these substantial and diversified operations, the Rank has
contributed to the expansion and strengthening of the industrial sector of
Colombia and of the countrv's small-scale industry. It has supported the
Government's efforts to foster industrial exports; assisted financial inter-
mediaries specialized in industrial lending; and strived to create employment
opportunities in depressed areas by promoting small- and medium-scale indus-
try. The OED report of 1979 on the first CFP project (SecM79-658) and the
Completion Report of 1983 on the second such project (SecX83-464) conclude
that the Rank's loans achieved most of their objectives. CFP had made
substantial progress in its operations and adopted a sound banking approach.
It had effectively supported small- and medium-scale industries, in
particular at the regional level, reaching the intended target group of the
smaller enterprises.  CFP's profitability has improved, but remains
inadequate; in part, this is explained by the rather high administrative cost
of making sound but small loans. Unit costs could probably be reduced by
streamlining CFP headquarters and strengthening regional offices. Launched
under dynamic leadership, CFP has suffered from rather quick turnover of its
management and staff. While CFP has--on the whole--succeeded in mobilizing
adequate funds, it has not been able to diversify its resource base and
remains unduly dependent on Government and other public sector support.
Also, the Bank has consistently been the major-and at times the only-source
of long-term external funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's fourth in support of the
development of Colombia's small- and medium-scale industrv. It would raise
the Bank's lending for this purpose to USS92.5 million equivalent. As in the
case of the past three loans, BR would be the borrower and CFP the
beneficiary. As under the previous loans, the project focuses on
labor-intensive small-scale industry and is also aimed at improving further
the quality and efficiency of CFP's lending operations and technical
assistance.
40.       Colombia was the first country in Latin America to receive a Bank
loan for small-scale industry.  The loan, made in 1975 in the amount of
US$5.5 million, provided long-term funds for investment in productive fixed
assets and for technical assistance. It was followed, in 1977, by another
loan of USS15 million. In 1980, the Bank made a third loan of USS32 million
to help small-scale industry finance productive fixed assets and permanent
working capital (whether or not related to the fixed investment), and again
to provide technical assistance to CFP. The two early loans have been fully
disbursed; the third has been committed, and 90% of its proceeds has been
disbursed.
41.       About 2,300 subprojects, involving an aggregate investment of some
US$130 million equivalent, have been assisted by the three loans. The
subloans made by CFP out of the loan proceeds averaged US$22,800 equivalent;



- 15 -
only 70 subloans exceeded USS100,000 each3/. Of the amount of subloans
Einanced with Bank resources, 87' was applied to productive fixed assets and
the rest to working capital. About two-thirds of the subloans were for five
years, or less, reflecting reluctance on the part of snall- and medium-scale
industry to assume debt for a longer term and, at times, CFP's tendency to
overestimate repayment capacity of the individual subborrowers. About
three-quarters of the subborrowers had total assets of less than US$100,000
equivalent. New enterprises represented 15Z of the total. The geographical
distribution of the subloans has been fairly even, with 67% of their number
and 56Z of their amount going to firms outside the metropolitan areas of
Rogota, Medellin and Cali. The subloans were also evenly distributed among
the various industries, with only one industry, food and beverages, account-
ing for 20% of the total amount, and only two, printing and chemicals, for
112 each.  It is estimated that about 10,000 direct jobs have been generated
by the investment supported by the three Bank loans, at a weighted average
investment cost of USS12,800 per job (compared with USS45,000 in medium- and
large-scale industry)41.
42.       The proposed project was appraised in November 1983.  Negotiations
took place in Washington during the weeks of May 7 and 21, [984, with a
delegation headed by Dr. Guillermo Galan, Deputy Manager of Credit, Banco de
la Republica, and Dr. Jorge Serpa, Director of Public Credit, Ministry of
Finance, and including representatives of BR and CFP.  A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled -Fourth Small-Scale Industry Project (No. 4929b-CO) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project
data are shown in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       Project objectives are to: (i) assist CFP to provide some 1,600
small- and medium-sized private industrial enterprises with adequate amounts
of medium and long-term credit over the next four years, to complement tlhe
limited term financing currently available to them; (ii) supply technical
assistance and modern technology to CFP headquarters and regional officesa
and help CFP in the execution of national and regional programs of technical
assistance to small- and medium-scale industry; and (iii) provide a conduit
for assistance to the Government in designing financial and technical
assistance policies to foster the development of small-scale industry. The
project would benefit industrial enterprises located mainly outside the major
metropolitan areas and showing total assets not exceeding US$750,000 equiv-
alent per enterprise. It is expected to result directly in 5,500-6,500 new
jobs and indirectly in about 2,000 additional employment opportunities. As
detailed in paragraphs 61 and 65, measures provided for under the project
would buttress CFP's financial and operational capability. The project is
part of CFP's 1984-87 lending program which is estimated to cost US$269
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component has been calcula-
ted at US$40 million. These targets, although ambitious, represent growth
comparable to historical rates and assume an average growth in the suall- and
3/ Under the third loan, the limit for subloans not requiring prior Bank
approval (the  free limit) was US$100,000 equivalent.  The same  free
limit would apply under the proposed loan.
4/ Annual sales per worker in small and medium-size enterprises assisted in
the context of the Bank's second and third projects amounted to an
average of US$12,000.



- 16 -
medium-scale industry subsector of 42 p.a. during 1984-1987. The project
would consist of: (a) provision of long- and medium-term credit through CFP
co small- and medium-scale industry for fixed investment and permanent
working capital; and (b) technical assistance to CFP and small scale
industrialists.
44.       Under the credit component of the project. firms borrowing from CFP
would construct new or improve existing industrial facilities - or purchase
plants in selected industrial parks - and acquire machinery, equipment and
spare parts. They would also obtain permanent working capital to build up
stocks of raw materials and supplies to a level called for by the installa-
tion or expansion of productive capacitv. Under the technical assistance
component, consulting services would be furnished to CFP to help coordinate
and monitor technical assistance to small- and medium-scale industry at the
regional level, to review CFP's organization and make recommendations for
strenthening its regional offices, and also to carry out a feasibility study
on ways to mobilize additional financial resources (mainly passbook savings
accounts) for use in CFP's operations. Moreover, computer terminals would be
purchased for CFP's regional offices to complement data processing equipment
supplied under the third project.
Cost and Financing
45.       The cost of the project has been estimated at US$114 million equiv-
alent, including the front-end fee on the Bank's loan. Of this, USSl1.1
would be used for construction and installation, US$51.1 million for
machinery and equipment, USS50.6 million would meet working capital needs,
and USS1.1 million would cover technical assistance. The foreign exchange
component amounts to US$35 million or 31Z of project cost.
46.       The financing plan provides for CFP to furnish US$4.5 million
equivalent and for the- enterprises borrowing from CFP to contribute US$30.5
million equivalent from their own resources.  FFI, local commercial banks and
suppliers, and the extra-bank market are expected to lend US$39.0 mill-on
equivalent. The proposed loan of US$40 million would finance 35% of the
project cost, covering the entire foreign exchange component (US$35 million)
and a portion of the local cost (US$5 million). Of the loan amount, US$39.5
million would be applied to the credit component of the project and US$0.4
million to the technical assistance component; the balance of US$0.1 million
would defray the front-end fee.
Onlending Terms
47.       The proposed loan would be made to BR with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia. BR would bear both the interest and foreign exchange
risk on the loan, including the cross-currency risk. BR would charge any net
losses from the foreign exchange risk to the Government 's Foreign Exchange
Special Account administered by BR (in accoraance with Decree No. 73 of
January 13, 1983 and an Agreement between the Government and BR dated April
25, 1983). BR would relend the loan proceeds in pesos to CFP for: (i) the
credit component, at interest rates which would be 4.5 perceitage points
lower than the annual interest rates charged by CFP for suL..oans to
industrial enterprises located in the metropolitan areas of Bogota, Medellin
and Cali, and 5 percentage points lower for subloans to enterprises outside
these areas; and (ii) the technical assistance component, at a fixed annual
interest rate of 12%. CFP would reimblurse BR at such times as shall be
required to service the Bank's loan.



- 17 -
48.       CFP would use the loan proceeds to make subloans to small and
medium-size enterprises for terms ranging between four to ten vears,
including one to three years of grace. Following the interest rate structure
introduced in December 1983 (paragraph 34), 15Z of the outstanding amount of
each subloan would bear variable interest at the rate payable on 90-day
certificates of deposit (based on an index published weekly by Banco de la
Republica) plus three percentage points (paragraph 2 (ii) of the Schedule to
the draft Project Agreement), and 852 of the outstanding amount of each sub-
loan would carry a fixed interest rate established for the Ufe of the
subloan by BR after consultation with the Guarantor, and agreement with the
Bank. BR, CFP and the Bank would review the above mentioned percentages no
later than December 31, 1985 (the end of the first full year of operation of
the line) with a view to increasing to 30% the portion of each subloan
subject to variable interest rates, and reducing accordingly the portion
subject to fixed interest rates (para. 2.(ii).(J) of Schedule to the draft
Project Agreement). This review would take into account the prospects for
industrial credit demand (specifically, demand for FFI and CFP lending) and
the prevailing levels and structure of interest rates. Based on the conclu-
sions of such review, agreement would be sought on the composition of the
interest rates referred to above, which would be applied on subloans made by
CFP starting January 1, 1986 (Section 4.05 of draft Loan Agreement). In the
event that agreement cannot be reached, the Bank may withhold further commit-
ments under the loan after end-1985 (Section 2.05 (c) of the draft Project
Agreement). A similar review would be held by December 1986, at which time
the parties would explore the feasibility of making further increases in the
percentage of the subloans to be subject to variable interest rates (para. 2
(ii) (E) of Schedule to draft Project Agreement).
49.       The fixed portion of the interest rate would be in all cases
positive in real terms at the time of subloan approval. In order to attract
the small sub-borrowers in the interior, the applicable interest rate would
be two percentage points lower than that applied to enterprises within the
three major metropolitan areas. Every six months, BR would set the nominal
lending rate and promptly inform the Bank of it. Should the Bank object, the
Government, the Bank and BR would review the matter within 60 days. In the
event of the parties falling to agree, the Bank may decline to authorize or
approve subloans bearing the new rate and presented to it after the 60-day
period (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). As under the last CFP
operation, this procedure would ensure that the onlending interest rates are
not only positive in real terms but also, in the Bank's view, adequate. FFI
interest rates, which will be the basis for the initial rates set bv BR, are
ac present 26% and 24Z per annum, depending on subborrover Jocation. If
current interest rates were applied to the two subloan parts, the weighted
average rate charged by CFP would be about 26.9% per annum in the three major
metropolitan areas and about 25.2! in other parts of the country. In the
face of declining inflation, these initial nominal rates would imply
relatively high real interest on the subloans. Nonetheless, BR is likely to
propose rates in line with those charged by other local financial
institutions. Once the peso reaches an equilibrium level, this is expected
to result in lower real interest rates Eor the subloans. Similarly, the
effective spreads (paragraph 47) would be some percentage points higher since
BR charges interest at the end of each calendar quarter, whereas CFP charges
it quarterly in advance. This effective spread would be reduced, if
onlending interest rates decline.



- 18 -
50.       Since the expected large number of subloans would make a composite
amortization schedule impractical, the prnposed loan would be repaid in equal
principal installments over a fixed term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace. As the average term of the subloans would he shorter than the life of
the proposed loan, CFP would build up additional lending capacity by using
part of repayments by subborrowers. This would assist CFP to carry out its
1984-87 lending program and is consistent with the Government's willingness
to make a contribution to the capital of CFP (paragraph 61).
The Beneficiary
51.      CFP is a public entity founded by the Government-owned Banco Popular
in 1967 to provide medium- and long-term credit to small enterprises, prima-
rily in manufacturing industrv. Initiallv, the Government took a modest
direct equitv participation in CFP. Owing to additional capital contribu-
tions, made between 1981 and 1983 in the context of the Bank's third CFP
project, the Government now holds 46% of CFP's equity, as compared with 20.5%
held by Banco Popular and a subsidiary companv. PROEXPO, which first
subscribed to CFP's capital in 1976, is now--with 32%-the second largest
equity holder. Most of the balance is held by the Industrial Development
Institute. Administratively, CFP is attached to the Ministry of Economic
Development, which plays an important role in guiding its lendi'ig operations.
52.       The Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Economic
Development, or a ranking official of the Ministry as his representative,
consists of seven members representing other Government agencies, finaicial
institutions and private industry. Since the Bank became associated *iith
CFP, the Board has delegated increasing responsibilitv for lending operations
to the management. Diffferences of opinion between the General Manager and
the Ministry, and subsequently between his successor and the staff, have
caused CFP to have three General Managers during the past five years. The
present General Manager has succeeded in establishing good relations with the
other members of the management and improving the working environment.
53.       Nothwithstanding changes in management, CFP's institutional
capacity has improved over the past several years. Most departmental
managers have been on CFP's staff for at least four years and have been
promoted from within. The professional staff of 149 (at the end of 1983) has
developed adequate knowledge and skills to carry day-to-day operations
efficientlv. However, a high proportion of the staff is concentrated at CFP
headquarters, while staff constraints at some of the 14 regional offices5/
hamper the processing of lending operations. A reorganization study to be
carried out under the proposed project (paragraph 44 above) should help
remedy this situation.
54.       Since L976, the activity of the 14 regional offices has been
strongly influenced by Regional Advisory Boards, composed of local managers
of Banco Popular and PROEXPO, the regional representatives of the Association
of Small Manufacturers, the Chamber of Commerce and SENA, local industri-
alists and bankers, and the regional CFP manager. These Advisory Boards had
been created to widen CFP's contacts with other Government entities and the
business community in the individual regions, and have improved coordination
between the regional CFP offices and other local organizations assisting
small-scale industry. Their first-hand knowledge of local conditions has
5/ Three promotional offices were established in 1983.



- 19 -
enabled the Advisory Boards to assume an effective role in reviewing and
approving small loan applications.
55.       Over the vears, the Bank has supported CFP in subproject appraisal
and supervision, financial management, internal audit, and the monitoring of
regional offices. In addition, a three-year UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance
program, launched in 1978, has also made a contribution. The quality of
appraisals has improved, with more emphasis now given to subproject
viability; nevertheless, further improvement is needed in analysis of repay-
ment capacity and markets. Supervision of subprojects improved between 1978
and 1981 but subsequently deteriorated, owing to insufficient management
interest and control over regional activities. In the second half of 1983,
regional supervisory committees were set up and entrusted with monthly
reviews of supervision work. Moreover, additional staff was recruited or
reassigned to take on responsibility for appraisal and supervision.
56.       As a consequence of the reporting requirements introduced with Bank
support, the quality and scope of statistical information on CFP's operations
has improved markedly. However, the available information has yet to be
processed and used systematically for management purposes. Currently, CFP is
preparing a study aimed at strengthening its electronic data processing
system; computer terminals for regional offices are to be purchased under the
technical assistance component of the proposed project. Internal auditing
procedures are adequate. Since 1976, the same external auditors have been
retained by CFP; their performance has been satisfactory.
57.       In line with its statutory objectives, CFP has centered its atten-
tion on lending to small industrial firms without alternative sources of
medium- and long-term credit. During 1979-83, about 38% of its lending went
to firms with total assets of less than US$90,000 equivalent per firm.
During the same period, the average CFP subloan amounted to about US$20,000
equivalent. Its operations encouraged regional diversification, and two-
thirds of the subloans benefited food, beverage and tobacco, apparel and
footwear, wood and furniture, paper and printing, and chemical industries.
58.       In addition to its regular operations, CFP has been engaged in some
special programs in the past five to six years. One of them is aimed at
assisting the 'micro-enterprises" of less than 1561 employees. The assist-
ance, consisting of training in technical aspects and business administra-
tion, entrepreneurial development and credit, was initiated by private
foundations. CFP has mainly worked through them and in most instances, the
foundations assumed the credit risk, administered the programs and received a
spread of six percentage points on CFP funds. In view of the high cost of
lending to -micro-enterprises- and the satisfactory performance of private
foundations, the Government, the Bank and CFP have agreed that CFP would
limit its direct lending to these enterprises to 2% of its total annual
lending during the years 1984-87 (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
59.       Two other special programs financed by the Government are being
administered by CFP. They help, respectively, very small-scale industry in
several secondary cities and recently amnestied political activists by
6/ CFP's definition of micro enterprises includes firms up to 15 employees.



- 20 -
providing investment credit. The administration of these programs is
cumbersome and expensive. The Government, the Bank and CFP have agreed that
CFP would keep separate accounts for the two programs, limit lending for them
to 2.5% of its total annual lending, and refrain from administering them
unless provided with adequate compensation for the consequent costs (Section
3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
60.       After ten years of effort, CFP has concluded that effective direct
technical assistance to a large number of small enterprises requires more
staff time and expertise than it can afford to allocate. Since 1978, there-
fore, CFP has concentrated on the systematic supervision of its clients,
provision of credit to small enterprises to meet technical assistance needs,
and coordination, at the national level, of technical assistance being
extended to small-scale industry by SENA and other organizations (paragraph
36). Rowever, the meager results of the nation-wide approach have now
prompted CFP to redirect its coordinating activity to the regional level,
where it has more influence on the organizations extending technical assist-
ance and closer ties with small-scale industry. Three regional programs of
technical assistance have been agreed with the Bank for implementation under
the proposed project.
61.       In the course of the past five years, CFP has been able to mobilize
adequate resources to suport the credit demand of small-and medium-scale
industry. However, it has remained heavily dependent on three sources of
funds, namely FFI, PROEXPO and the Bank which, on a flow basis, accounted for
almost 90% of total borrowing and about 44% of total sources of funds in
1979-83. Despite the increase in paid-in capital (paragraph 51), net worth
represented 2'i.2% of CFP's total liabilities at the end of 1983, compared
with 28.5% at the end of 1979. In the context of the proposed project, CFP
will seek to diversify its resource base by tapping, in addition to tradi-
tional sources, new permanent sources of local funds (paragraph 44) which
should be facilitated by the introduction of variable interest rates in CFP's
operations (paragraph 34). Equity funds in the form of paid-in capital would
be provided for, as needed, in the years 1985-87, in order to allow for
growth in operations wehile maintaining a maximum debt/equity ratio of 6:1
(Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agrement).
62.       CFP's assets grew steadily between 1979 and 1983, at an annual rate
of 10% in real terms. The loan portfolio, accounting for 852-86% of total
assets, expanded at an even faster rate in 1980-82, but in 1983 showed only a
4.7Z increase in real terms. Nothwithstanding its dynamic growth, the
quality of CFP's portfolio improved consistently through 1982, with loans in
arrears amounting to 12% of total loan portfolio, compared with 20% when the
Bank made its first loan in 1975. However, a serious reversal occurred in
1983, with arrears reaching 17.6% of the portfolio by the end of the year.
In addition to the economic recession and financial difficulties affecting
small-scale industrv, delays in completion of investment projects by CFP's
borrowers, inadequate portfolio supervision by CFP and lax collection
procedures were the main causes of the arrears.
63.       To remedy the situation, CFP adopted several measures in the second
half of 1983. A refinancing program was set up to assist small enterprises
regarded as viable but facing liquidity problems. Supervision of subprojects



- 21 -
was tightened (paragraph 55), and regional managers were made responsible for
the quality of their respective portfolios. CFP has agreed that a portfolio
recovery program needs to be drawn up as part of its 1984-1987 Action Program
(paragraph 65), including recovery targets, better collection procedures and
satisfactory supervision of sub-borrowers. A program satisfactory to the
Bank is to be promptly put into effect (Section 3.01 of the draft Project
Agreement).
64.       The level of CFP administrative costs has been causing concern for
some time. While the ratio of administrative expenses to average assets
declined from 7.3% in 1979 to 6.7% in 1983, it still exceeded the 6% ratio
stipulated for 1983 under the Loan Agreement of 1980. The main reasons were
slower portfolio growth in 1983 and the relatively high cost of operating
CFP's headquarters, compared with the cost of regional offices where CFP
income is generated. As a result of the expected expansion of CFP lending in
1984-87 at a rather high annual rate of about 16% in real terms, and the
intensified sub-project supervision and technical assistance coordination,
administrative expenses are bound to increase. In order to control them, and
improve operating efficiency and profitability, CFP intends to refine its
organization (paragraphs 44 and 53) and to piut into effect by June 30, 1985
revised operational policies and procedures to ensure sound portfolio growth
at lower unit cost (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). CFP has
also agreed to reduce gradually the ratio of its annual administrative
expenses to average total assets from the current 6.7% to 6% in 1986 (Section
4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
65.       As indicated in the preceeding paragraphs, CFP is well aware of its
administrative, operational and financial shortcomings. The measures that it
is adopting, and intends to adopt, have been presented to the Bank in a draft
'Action Program, 1984-87'. The Action Program deals in a concrete way with
the areas that need strengthening: (a) guidelines for CFP's reorganization
study and strengthening of its regional offices; (b) strengthening of CFP's
subproject appraisal and supervison capabilities; (c) technical assistance
needs at the national regional levels; (d) guidelines to carry out study on
resource mobilization; (e) a portfolio recovery plan; and (f) study for
portfolio growth at lower unit cost. This draft program, closely related to
the technical assistance component of the proposed project, once adopted
should strengthen CFP's institutional, financial and operational capabilities
(Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The final Action Program in
terms acceptable to the Bank, and approved by CFP's Board of Directors, would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Local suppliers of imported equipment are well represented in
Colombia and, owing to keen competition, quote reasonable prices; only in
special cases would small enteprises find it cheaper to import equipment
directly. The construction industry is efficient and competitive. The very
existence of qmall-scale industry is related to its ability to purchase raw
materials at reasonable prices. Whenever justified, goods would be procured
on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers and this procedure



- 22 -
would be mandatory if the estimated value of an item (or the aggregate value
of procurement from a single source) exceeded USS25,000 equivalent.
Consultants for CFP would be recruited and selected in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
67.       As in the case of the previous three loaxo  for small-scale
industry, the proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed for: (i) 100%
of foreign expenditure on directly imported goods; (ii) 90% of expenditures
in pesos on locally procured goods and services; (iii) 70Z of the purchase
price in pesos of industrial buildings in selected industrial parks; and (iv)
IOOZ of expenditure on materials and equipment for the technical assistance
component of the project (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The
Closing Date would be December 31, 1988.
68.       In order to reduce the Interval during which CFP would finance with
its own resources the Bank's share of goods and services procured for the
project, a Special Account with an initial deposit of US$4 mtllion would be
opened in BR. CFP would be entitled to make withdrawals in pesos from the
Special Account upon presentation to BR of certified statements of expendi-
ture on the project.  Conversion from pesos into dollars would be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date the expenditure was made. BR would
forward those statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special
Account. The Special Account, and the certified statements of expenditure,
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(Sections 2.02(e) and 4.03 of, and Schedule 3 to, the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
69.       By supplying long-term foreign exchange resources to small- and
mediumr-scale industry, the proposed loan would support the Government's
efforts to expand employment opportunities and to achieve a geographically
balanced development of the Colombian economy. An estimated 70% of the
number of the subloans, and 60% of their total amount, would benefit enter-
prises located outside the three major metropolitan areas. The project is
expected to create, directly, some 5,500-6,500 jobs at an average cost of
uS$16,000 (at 1983 prices) and, indirectly, some 2,000 additional employment
opportunities. A wide variety of industries would be assisted; While uost
sub-projects would involve expansion of existing enterprises and would
produce for local markets, about 15% of sub-projects might be carried out by
new enterprises and about 10% might also produce for exports, particularly in
response to the Government's exchange rate policy. Since a large share of
the resources generated by the project would mainly accrue to small business-
men and unskilled workers, the impact on income distribution would be benefi-
cial. The project should further substantially strengthen the institutional,
financial and operational capabilities of CFP, and enable it to ensure that
small-and medium-scale industry is provided with adequate technical assist-
ance.
70.       In its selection of sub-projects for lending, CFP is primarily
guided by subproject viabilitv and financial criteria. This approach is
acceptable. The financial rate of return of the sub-projects assisted by the
proposed loan is expected to average around 15%, and in no case be lower than



- 23 -
12%. Because of the small size of the subprojects, calculation of economic
rates of return is not justified. However, the economic return oc the
projects is likely to be higher than the financial one because prices of
input materials are somewhat inflated as a result of the protection involved
while, on the other hand, most small-scale industry products are openly
traded so that market prices reflect economic values. As a norm, therefore,
the typical products of small-scale industries have lower protection rates
than the corresponding inputs.  Also labor costs are estimated to be higher
in financial than in economic terms, as reflected by the prevailing
unemployment rates.
71.       The proposed project does not involve unusual risks in attaining
its objectives.  Nevertheless, insufficient Government's equity contribution
to CFP, changes in CFP management, or shortage of funds available to CFP for
working capital financing, *may unfavorably affect the progress of the pro-
ject. To reduce the probability of this happenins, the Bank has associated
itself closely with the timely execution of the 'Action Program 1984-87-,
approved in principle by the CFP Board in March 1984 (para. 65).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de la
Republica, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Corporacion
Financiera Popular, and the Report of the Comittee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(ifi) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed In Section III
of Annex III. An additional condition of loan effectiveness would be the
adoption by CFP of an Action Program , in terms satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraphs 65 and 71).
74.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOI~IMH AIION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 14, 1984



- 24 -                                     Anen  I
Page IL of 5
TARLa 3%.
m               mz EO                 ml rEUs
iuu1      i,i*  uar. me=& a& c6s                       c
m cmm    - no
1023.                           1153.9     1153.9     1339
3.5035     3503       355                 _
cw Ns cm CM)                       228.0   880O  t1U                      202                    28s38
CILaNM.S o    . rcia.x           5130O      730.0     970-               t-. 
P0A.       L PXD-UMR C1S8      15738.0    ZU0       2M7 3.0
11maU   I=   (: 09 TA.)          48.2       59.        68.4              839                   &7.5
POFMAT I 118* 2000 KOmL)                               _3 -5_
s:ah        arc      Cot)                            85-S
l*m SQZ1OM PM. U                                     n20
mm 3Q ar-                       Ms8      t1.7        22_7              3S-                    2280
ms S3- OL ARI. LM              59         80.7       72MG              92                    15T72
earww Am STOC (I)
0-X8 Tis                       668        88.2       36-.             80L1                  3n.9
13t5L TiS                      50.3       3t_.       60.2              33.5                  60.9
S5 AND ADM                      2.9        2.1        3.8              *.1                    7.2
P0OIUAfl0 C-A KM CZ)
.am                             3_1        3.0        2.0              2.3                    1.8
mIS                             !-7        5.Z        2.8               3.7                    3_-
cm= fIRTS RATE CMU (  2)         88.7       35.        29.8              31.5                  2S_0
CUDE DET X t511 CPU IOU)         I"         10..        7.7               5..                   9.1
m=S  smNCzOu W                    3.3        2.8        1.5              2_0                    1.7
780Y. WtJC
*CC>tsm. am.. C         1111_ 112.5 
USERS CZ OF M.A= U C)            --       38-0       4--
IN= or powPW. PM mrm
C1969-71-l0)                    1OCL.       990       124-0             113.0                 103.4
PM CAP= 5ILY or
CALLIK_S;C (0o 33fCnDES        95.0         90      10020             13                     t1298
P80S11  (CUM  M D1a)           58.0       43.0       55_0               7.9                  92Q3
ai 8w0w *36. AM9 PUS           2.         28.0      2301l            34.1                   38.8
COD (AQ  1-4) DEXT3 3aU          I0          7.L    J 5                   3                    10-4
LIM E MC? AT 511 Ct(aM)          53_1t       5.9       83.3              68.8                  87.2
-ISIS- _t. m    Cam  mm"        101.0       77.0      S3                61.8                   71.4
ACCMS TO SAM WV8M (210?
Tam                            30.01.        .0      640-ff            84.5
0101*                          3.9T7;    Jl.0          ci.f            77.8
sum                               8*;    23.0        46.dTf            88.3
ACCSS T Zlq3       DXStON
C( or £0POAT?0U
L                                __       *7.0       48.411            34.6
unm                             MD~~~~~~7.  60. 7i          89.5
MORA                             -         a.0       4.d7i             29.8_
PULAYIo PE IUSICMIW            26'0.0     20.o    190.l0               1776.0                1098.
POP. NM  nsuC PERSON           4220.01     70.O    zzmoTa-             101Z.2                 762.5
POP. PU 3SPTrAL. MD
.0m                            360-0      430.0                       4 *77.0                380
O1R1                                      300.0      49@7;i           687.5                  218.0
tM                               _          _.          -            1_921.6
awMssim  FU 3017.P                 ..       229        2914              27.2                  20.0
TOM.                             I. 3.7--
mm"                              .          s W        _                                        _
AmSS To  rr. (: or vusta315
TOM                             47.01      3.1_                          _
DB3                             83-7       5,75        __                __
Rum                              5.01.     13_                            --



- 25 -
Annex 
A a  lL tE 1                            Page  2 of  5
to.Ge3I               - SOtML . MIrIS DATA 
~~.amta                   3~~fFr- :DCS  C'tEI   a3!kA5S i
MST                    OUDST RtEtC  ESta1) tb
19GOuT          !MLE room                EL1 roaE
LAr. &!rcIA  Cmr             ERmE
PrWM:       g                    7.0 o     '.O       128.              !O3.e                  102_Z
IALE                  7_C       107._0     iZ,_0            1Z963                   107_2
Fl.--CE               *-_e0     tllO       t3ea e          ;6                      9J_0
SECmai r:  .                    IZ_ 2S0 Me            46.0             LO.0                    56_S
-JlL E                13.r       25.0       43_0             38.6 63-4
FEWILE                11.0       24-0        Q.*0            41.2                   48-9
LCAT1OUE. M OF sE#CD)             30 3(8     20.ZZ      Zl_6te           36.0                   ZZ4
?CPL-2E*II R aI
3810       38.1       31.n             30.7                   24J7
SEmA                            12.0       170 --     0C              ;6_7                   22_1
A.T LITERaCr SIT! (2)            63_0        30.8(1     81.0             79_5                   69_7
1 S   Ca^Ta 0                 5    _.7       11.2       18.6/a      *S_S            S      Z      .
162D FAMcEzVEPnusaO  PO    .251             104.3      116.3           2ZZ8.                   16S _
it     I 3TuO2SWM ro              9_S        38.1       86.9            2063                   124.2
SESAPER (-DAIT CKIMML
ZSTEaZr) cZsATIO
PE           POnULATO             0  o                 50.              6.1                    9.
C5a arSEJwUg A-LTE/ lC  _. A                             2.9              2.9         2_9
TOL LAbS FORM CrOUS)            *7_7.0     6353-0       m_0                _
FErM.Z (FNC)                    19.2       24.8       24.: _4.8                               34.S
JM1U11 cpt3Wr)                  51_-       37.9       23.3             31_3                   40.7
DWSTR (cEur)                    19.2       210       21_2             23.9                   23.4
PAPT.- P&rPaTE  FATE (PENEI)
TUL                             30.0       Z9.9       34.0             31_3                   42.0
ME                              488       4*.51       S1.1             69.8                   55.2
TERI                            1t-.      1t-_        l6-8            1t.8                    29.1
emum    DCSRIME     RaT           1_7         1.6        1.2              1.4                    0.9
rom    eoF r1zE 1XIE
EEIED  BY
3ZGESr 2a er 3SENLS             67.Jy,]  60.1/'
LmlUT 2= OF O9EHM.DS                        3.__
Le5sT w: vF    _                 6_87J   I10.1          .                  
ESTIThA1  *BSW.UIF POVETY rem-!
L!IU. (93  FM CAPIT)
uDAN                              _.        ._       Z./d             2S9.8
Rm                                                   267_nTd          5t4_S
L                                 _.         ..      122.071           372.1                 409.0
UaN TE
- Zr APPLZABL
-~~~~~~~~~~ 0T A  LLE
/a The grasp arnes for Oeach Lauetoat are popalattom-wWft%elG& artmtIe  _n_- Caqe of cetrSeamm  the
Indleatar depends a   tael.b11ty of data and Ia not l!for..
lb  VdeI  otbhSw_.. noted. Data for 19EO- refer to any year beteao 1959 amd 1961: Data for 1970 beteen 2969 ad
1971; ad data for Plat RAcaut KSarite betwa.. 1979 aod 1981.
/c  1973; 1d 1977: In 1964; If 1978; !  1942: tb 1973: 11 IncludIng teachr traluing at the thirSd  .eI; ] Ecoandeally
way 1.983



-26--                                                                           Anntex I
Page 3 of 5
Cat   sEta   I    -   a  -    t..~. a  an-a    .  a  nn .a               ttt.:a   c  ....              ~ -   -          -     .        v           -sa      An S
t t                 t a*-          *     a          Ctata                en .a              *    st..    c t a -..= ma   a.. ?c    W                                     n      a-a. e                   
fl       ae.   2            ea          W...sn.a                   .rraa            .a..-               tt p .u t                 et..
~  t.a. -   - gal   -  ist  -      at    aaa~.ac a   - 12      fit-                                    St    a- t  &                -   t      a p -          W -
~t  SWa. 'Iatat  2i   ag. ~   ~t  Ca.a.a    w   r.~g.g   IltS   W t    .taat    gg   161                 r      Ca-a  a2    tata                  taZWa
GSZttt tta         -    trta..              ..Sa                            .a.ae Or.aROsa                                       Eia.-tptl                                5              aSt           t          i.-
gaa    a   tt   t.   SClalt. Sitaa-.aa..a       t    ta              I   ttt n.                     -5a  .aa.attttt   la    - =                         a ...   a
a-t d    ..ca                    -        -t0.S    -aP                              -el            at    -.ac            a c        I   I:..                    sata            t.            a       
Ca  a- t  a..sr.at...-    .att                                                                                                               a~as.   ..-.. .                       a 4ta
S..-~a     -a.    t- atpr.   .l                             aa-             a ..cr.saa.accat..                                                      -      sataa                 aZatyz.t
alt    t             C r.                                                                                         a.ia   .            e.a  a           -.-s.  a.s                lta       dgitS-t  as-t
L   - 1 ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        .    .a        ,st       a.        -It          a- t.                 a    .I           a
W SCa 1~a           -   t   -.1                       ::I.a:t a- .         a     Sta                                    .Lt          .aM           t   r.              a        .a .              0 51a
laa.ar .r   -  atea-  ...t            aaa        tta    ta.c                                  fSc .....    ---.                  a.aaa            aa.S.sL                a.a r  
It.   at.    St   -c.                                                                                      .  s   ...           wate.           s      un       .    at          napa   asf a
LI                                                                                        P_es: .    .a    t-..   at.t  t  a   -t     D-ta
itt~~tCtW   Cs. rC.?a                                                        tatttattlSg  e.at-             0  teatat .stt  a-a  t.t.t.r



- 27 -
Zu    CZ,^56So (Ma  IfR    4o 
.r.r                             c    }   tsn Frio)                                  -.t  _)s
tm       o!11 Vf    zC V    1t 1S   1S5-          1 5        0       MO0       We       !s5           1!        lt             ran1
Grow &= da                   11my .735    ,3:5     D0        D,I        5*3       &2        &3     la"W      ID        won      IDI"!   tMD
_P e3u ya   9.   91    35 sUz  iX                                                                          -;K  -zs  2g& 2
7~~~~~~~~~~o-    9;51    D.    I D,   4 5                                       Z-1      25-    9L          3         3 WJ     31D0      31        ZlA
5 C5J7 U, ~~L--                13:        14,15  VI.=          S.9       7.        SA   Vw_          ts        42A   4   -r  1           5Z:          513
t_wa                          -5,D      MAK   lGl            31D.lW     54        6;   S   Li       79.       mu         t-      11.                 7iN1   '   29
o        txmw        _        B . &-  DoA7         WI         9.W       Si         z        7.-6    m          MO       rJ 275-            V2        z58
Z < e  S 5.i.,db *,e w         W.S       66t       4.6    E3J        1 _           -3        t      LS5   nJ.           Ms         '        23       I 
Ewmf  .  a   s           S    S.q    .t;8          6."#       &.W       r3         A        J 7   5&          a-,'               z6a       lb3       v-,   I     L.7n
tmmnol           sot I,G5S               8.40      '9q        7,!til *-,;U 5 2              3        19-4     I"        I        2R S-b   7 -I   IL1         t
lbrrf~~twf    no,S2 X                          3. 3-                         61        1_9    1^0   t   I"        v"        is"
Mjr FUM                     Z.          .92| 2 .05%                2      3             1     >     rz     -Er    7       _     W5.2f    -ri  -r
mmwmoacx                      M7         s"        9m                          ZL                   -       I"        = S      9t9  al            2&-
1~~~~~                          ~~~ eBl 6w &2                           Li       -  7J      -       VA        230f3     me       t73       tL
raa        3U        ML                             4      14.9       ZA       Si        &A       6.6       4A~~~~~~~~br 5.
racrnl~~~~ 53                     1    6 57                  -2L     D.O   4b.5  2D               _            ID         J        3.9     V
"KA-  anD 2,          5       -M       Li            6        <        _       -4                  47       am 1   mu    3S . ZiAs
aCb                         Zmg        2.M3      Z',M                  1z       S.        & 5       - 5'   t53        SS 9     47JW      V'S       4S.3
..-    5    5        an        on         am 8   W91   no                    V        Ibf bl  -8W
MCISl M MS aF MMd
cw df~~~~Z7u                  .6    Z1J           2"   J 13    1          1      3A         a"   2 3            3         09
mm&mw~~~~Z5 co              ;S_        3OL9       NlJ                  ".IJ1                47L6 3   5 L-       6f       7L
pCe Fd                            2%- .  Z5Z_ s          "8       9a 779    552 2 {,a&3           7 tl3ZD  1,t6    t,ZS;A
TV     c &M-=L&    bm_                                    31i.9Z7. 329  OJDa  saK2   Qlt                       7W0S   tSD 7   t7L
mo    f M&                         U37    ! 1            J 1   7        12J^            W-4         "    .6        W &          M9
_1   UX                                                           I"         UZ         U1
_WCewfb                                                                5_7       7-         9 vj
Sq;3  - C+) ordtct                                                    4.]9    3'tl
F         _"q   Et                                                     33t    3.1           2.
cw    .mt C4                                                         S .10    be10    3 -
or pr qwt  -       Bca  C.')                         2m                                    ?-V1
a_C t C--Jl  5 J        M                     QD                             4M         4
M= w                                               ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~3.5i  3_.1  TA6
brdl  _6.  . es     -
7~ dtwwmm   of__ml1                    or -cid P&x  _
7  cwh e         *b ee1     *  a  
qlut 2B. M



- 28 -
papa  m              MO,. S" (dA-1M CF. Be=, .                                      o  arm .      NW                                         JI    T
-w  ns Qm  S .4J0 A                                                           at m  WI  .  pa) p                                                     S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaP #t                                                                      Et ntzsz xs rso 
2g7     1975      1916  DJ7         1        I    S9    1  J            19t!2 e      t               193 r i
A  OF -E
Bgm= GE-Waft ad        5     NW"            1.0      2        2.0M     3.W      4. D     4.0S     %M       46         *.M    4,.15      4,.6     5.1 .5    A,;!>7
-              auf               1 a d,a2    2,1 s3    Z.=             2.76  3.4a        33.M     5.49L    6a8    6.444    5,5          S.4W     6. e1 
_ h m-21.4                                              21        461 35 us           4      119       ,             -a7      -l AV7      -a06      -8
ait fa  .t                -It -i                     3W    -313         -OF      -W7    -:M        -22      -%2                         1 -     -cm        -
SKc tcmf=                                               3D       39       4        AL       9B      I"       2tz                          2Z3       M i   r_qY 
41       8            D              3S'  se   181 ,212 -   .1    I
02him A=l9=                                                   210      449       W        6       15-R-     j1.,                               j1.      ---!
NM-Al    moadv                                  36       31        14       43       61      10        3U      2a       2        150   O0D           31D   - ..
ad kmte  l1    ("I)                              19. 2              196      47       am       an     1.439    1.23       41         mg    1.06&4   :.3
D    1k ur                                   (1       (9       (i-      C)"       (        MO      (7)  CI.M)  (3)    (47)               (03)  7(96)        7)(1 1i)
S (9)                                                   )    C-3)    C-I)  C-3)    (-33)    (4)    (-)    (3s1)    (1K)    C-E)        ( )    CM          r3D)
*tb.W Cmr1                                   -M        -        226      I"       IN       -- 2B      4      IV         1     -29        -39D                2Z-
Cap1. 1m    m_e                                 2D                  ZD  AM    23    a                 S          0 5     991 1,            7 9 8  I 5   1
we ha (           C- t-     )                   351     -1Q      -il      -M       -61     I 0        m       -140      713    %                     39      -"9
hr  a Xu  m               (aWim)                LIZ      5U7    1.16    1.0)       ,4M    4.16    5 U61   5.S1A    A,an        3.r,       1.t99    1,03     :,1
bin       m -    o fa                          09       3.2  6D 0          a         .7     1S .5     L    I 11         9.1    st           4.1      3J1      3'L
mmS   _      eulo   di
OEU-fld     6                                           -        -        -            -    _            -             -
ci 1o 1                     3P6      J7       W        375      299      9i2    1.13?    1.3      1,430
_1nm                                          47        42       43       25       61       36       46       53      4U
ML                                           C-)      C-)      C-)      C-)      (-)  Q -)         C-)      C-)      C-)
Odw                                        a()       (C)       (7)      (5)     (6)       (a)    (22)      (1)       (77)
oewI 1Ip1t                                  c2       CIS)      (9)     (1)      (c3)      t9      C()       75)     CM)
* as) ci) pnZ>ar o) ac
no(                                                 cm        (67)    (7S1)    (39)    (81)    (9)  (               am1
o, -I~tl-?                                  CD()     (1)       a)      (22)    C1O)       22      (AL)      7s)      (2)
Pft."*                   cxm      cm       cnu      cm       C(S                         g)    a
E    rV    W2 of pe2o  d
Dtbt as_f  md db6cn                2         J2      2,42   2.Q2  9O   3.Ds              4M           S    %M       6.2n
Cf.ia                                     1.6Z5    I.73    I,lS      l.SO       S_9     2,U       2M     2,_M      2-
I=                            am       COL~~t) CsX       cnl6)    C)    ClB"         (      a.U  (1L.3C6)
Mh~~~~                                   3 cm CZ)                   cm       an       cm       C)  Q2  e A
achm                       aom ~axa  aun=  a.Lizn a=  az   aw   a.4M) CI.M
51D      641      678      8        813    I.25     1.717    2.SD     3.Z9
D1.~uci Dam                                   660      I10      5m     1.03     1.217    1.MS    2,592    Z.92      3,5)
Tm:a d _C ac1   pam                           297      23       259      315      317      E6       we       M6       91
of SfC I3tS                                          115 125 19 1u3             1um      11        3 2  8  AN       57
asZ.e,pm f _oftad
au in-wi:m I.                                       1         9.4      9.       93      129       8.6     1Z.6    17.$
Pa           F _    Q                        ZA        1.38     1a       1.6      1.7      Z.3      1.6      1.8      2.3
- Inm m we a               1c   (Z)           7.4      7.5      6J7      73       7.9     10         3 =3    12.0      0.6
CEXfI1                                     (6.2)    (6,3)   C0.6)    (73)    (7a)    (7.7)           )     (7A)    (93)
him                                        ()          3)    (7.6)    (7.4)    (86)  a( )   CI?)   n4.)   (129)
A   m    z      of mm im  (m:)               16       l5.3     14.9     16.2    14.3    13.0       14.6     129       1.46
lnFktal                                   (127)   (19-3)   (115)   C18.)   (165) 071 (17.0 17)   (16.8    (17.1.
PZ_Cne                                    -1 1)    (80                 (9      (9.6)   (1.0    (12.9)   (11.)    (7.9)
1m co    E ECS    () Af
I   0mhwax  am                               26.3     NJ       272      1.6    2L7        21.8     23       22.8     21.7
MID diabLre/o1              ds               27'.9    27A      296      2Z.7     27A      13       2L.2     18       19.4
I   dek  _te/l debt m                        21.9     32.8     3L9  Z 9.5    2L.8    19.5    V23            213      1.9
ML lm 1t"l cm                                 LI.      0.9      0.9      0.8      0.8      0.6      0.5      0.4      03
D. 61hm i~  gE1   dl                         -         -        -        -        -        -        _        _        _
D1 da     v..4tueal db enI                   0.1       0.3      0.2      042      0.1      04       04       0.1      040
.  tbdE h_   L
bt PdhLy.
ci F- rc
'WI PkMk o  pAklay  cwwm  ib
1-- 6. 1681
h lmb.



- 29 -
A.nnex II
,sage 1 of 4
A.  ITATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CR1EDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(USSmillion)
Loan                                                           amount (less Cancellation)
Number Year Borrower                          Purpose           Bank  ID)   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   1,406.1  23.5 1|   -
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture        21.0             4.6
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural Dev.         52.0              5.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica           Agricultural Cr. 64.0               1.1
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    58.3             25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                        Highways           90.0              7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0             R.1
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8             11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power               126.0             20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0            11.2
1593    1978  Zona Vran:a Irndustrial y       Industrial
Comerci3l de Cartagena          Export           15.0             4.5
1624    1979  Colombia                        Airports           61.0              1.9
1628   1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             84.0              2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            13.5             10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9             3.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power                72.0            35.7
1726    1979  Instituto tNacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       31.0            23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0             12.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bankr/IA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearlv and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Number Year Borrower                           Purpose          Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980 Empre3a de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              R7.0             49.3
1825    1980 Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Coomunications    44.0                11.3
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.    32.0               2.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              85.9
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de 'edellin  Power              12.0              87.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               R5.0             75.3
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0             18.2
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Ridrologia                    Irrigation         37.0              5.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Flectrica de la
Costa Atlantica               Power              36.0             26.0
2008    1981  Empress de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            294.3
2069    1981  Inatituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovahles y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.n              7.8
2090    1982 Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           77.0            77.0
2121    1982 Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          152.3            139.4
2174    1982  Colombia                        Rural Develop-
mont            53.0             5 2.2
2192    1982 Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              13.3
2303    1983  Inastiuto Colombiano            Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.6             62.7
23491/  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.      Coal
Exploration      9.5              9.5
23791/  1984  Colombia                        Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             40.0
23012/  1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            170.0
TOTAL                                           3,818.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          837.5   4.1
Total now outstanding                           2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                          51.0           -
Of which has been repaid             51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IlD                  2,981.3  19.8
-_
Total undisbursed                                                1,435.8
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Not yet signed.



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as cf March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in USS Million
Year                   Obligor                    Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board            .50              .50
1960-1565      Industrias Alimenticias
NToel, S.A.                    Food products        1.98   .0w        2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans             .70      -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture        .08    .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical equipment .50        -       .50
1962           Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing            -   2.02       2.02
196 2-1963     Corooracion Financiera            Development
'Tacional                         financlng            -   2.06       2.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de            Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1964        Telidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de         Development
caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Coiombia, S.A.          Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de            Wareho-.sirg         1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                Livestock             1.0O    .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-741    ENKA de Colonbie, S.A.            Textiles             5.00   2.61       7.61
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Norte                             financing            -    .45        .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Valle                             financing            -    .43        .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism                .23    .11       .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism                .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de         Rousing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement               1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement               3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                        Mining               6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Casoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities           13.00   2.00     15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material          0.97   1.76       2.73



- 32 -
Annex 1T
Page-4 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1984) (Continued)
Piacal                                           Type of              Amount in USS Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing              9.no    .17       9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Coloibianos Ltd.        Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86      16.nl
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing       1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.            Cement and
Construction
Material         21.91  5.00     X.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.          Mining              10.65  1.f4     12.29
Total Gross Commitments                               93.55  i6.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                       62.28   9.6O      71.88
Total commitments now held by IFC                     31.27  16.72     47.99
_ -S
Total  undisburse4 (including                         33.56   7.06     40.62
participants)



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLE1ENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:          Three months
Cb) Agency which prepared project:          Corporacion Financiera Popular
(c) First presentation to Bank:             August 1983
Cd) First mission to review project:        August/September 1983
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission:         November 1983
(f) Completion of Negotiations:             June 1984
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:          August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special assurances were obtained and agreement reached:
(a) on the terms on which the proceeds of the loan would be relent to CFP
and onlent by CFP (paras. 47 and 48);
(b) that the Government would bear the residual foreign exchange risk and
compensate Banco de la Republica for any loss which would arise when-
ever total amounts payable to Banco de la Republica by CFP would fall
short of service payments on the Bank's loan (para. 47);
(c)  that in the years 1984-87 CFP would limit its direct lending to
micro-enterprises and its lending for special Government-financed
programs (paras. 58 and 59);
(d) on the execution of regional technical assistance programs (para.
60);
(e) on the maximum debt/equity ratio of CFP and the provision of addi-
tional equity funds to CFP (para, 61);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) on the preparation and implementation by CFP of a portfolio recovery
program (paras. 62 and 63); and
(g)  on the ratio of annual administrative expenses of CFP to its total
assets (para. 64).
As a Special Condition of loan effectiveness, CFP would adopt an
'Action Program, 1984-87' on terms acceptable to the Bank (paragraphs 65 and
71).



I R 18043
COLOMBIA                                                             4AAI         ' OAMIICM REP
FOURTH SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT.                                                                           :
OCARAGUA 
RICA            VENEZUELA / 
PANMA P.- ,  ,            *   FR. GUIANA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* I' ----1 rR J
.\ { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I \~
r   *           fl              ,~~~~ ~~~~~~~1. M.  ; 
C;m.... ;                     --                                      .    VER   N    Z     E
BRZI
'OLIVA  1.
'-PANAMA                                                                                                         AN____________
V                                                                                  E N
.  -. -_
'Soso-*.       ,/
Co,~~~~~~~~~~~
°' E C  U  A  D  O R   -A                                                                                                                  r
\                               R    (   O       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50  100  150
'_>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 d\o s lo   150  2C10 250
z                                 J           r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLtOPETERS
0 CFP Regional OFffces                 >_j                                                B   R  A       Z    I   L
CFP Promational Officesi
{ #S_ ,I                                   ..     n f b
NotonNol Caor10l                                                                             VW _t..,NwrV
°   t c-2mod Tom -it FPq*ution 0Or 40.000                                                      No a _ cn, b, VW 
R,"fs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                       E    R    U                                  Thes_
Deprtmenb tal BourWorsn                    -                                            rxrn Wdo lot,n
--   Iternot.onal Bawodosers                                                                             C '   -     j   D fd
~~~~~~~~~~  __   _-'.1d 
'~~~~~ '_~                                                               .      r_  VIL'
0   5.0.. man bow 150
of V    Ior"   0   5
KILOMETER
*    CFP Regional OFf.ces        \.~\ 4                                              BRAZI



