Doan      MICRO1 i CHE COPY
The Wo:
Report No.  9836-TU   Type: (PCR)
CIIAI, L.- ( / X31754 / T- 903S4/ OEDD1
FOR OITcL
ReporeN. 9835
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2399-TU)
AUGUST 23, 1991
Populatior and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
Tbis document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Acronyms
ELT:       Englisn Language Training
IBL:       Industry--based learning
ITU:       Industrial Training Unit, YOK
OJT:       On-the-job training
SIS:       State Institute of Statistics
SPO:       State Planning Organization
TEKSIS/
BC/GE:     TEKSIS/British Council/General Electric (consortium)
TTC:       Technician Training Center, Y6K
YOK:       Council of Higher Education
SEGEM:     Industrial Training and Development Center
Financial Data
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Exchange Rate:         366.7  522.0  647.5  857.2  1422.3  2121.7  2608.6
Local Inflation Rate:   50.4%  43.2%  29.6%  32.0%  68.3%  69.6%  52.3%



THE WORLD BANK                1*FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olkh cd Dmtetc.Cwwa
Opecatom IvAMuatrn
August 23, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report:  TURKEY - Industrial
Training Proiect - (Loan 2399-TU      _
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Turkey - Industrial Training Project
(Loan 2399-TU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                  a7'
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of tbeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUWY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2399-TU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface    ............................ **.*-.. 1...
Evaluation Summary   ....... ... ...4*.......                             ......4     it
PART Is  PROJECT REVIEW PROK BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity ..... ....           ...... ..............                     1
B.  Background ......     . ,.. .............. *1. .... .. ......
C.  Project Objectives and Description ........                 ......               1
Project Objectives ...................... . .. . .. . ..  ...........           1
Project DescrLption . ......... ............ .*. .  ............ .. ..          2
Project Design and Preparation                  2...........................    2
D.  Project Implementatlon . ..... ..     ...  ... .... O..*. . . ..  .. ..3
Loan Effectiveness & Start-up .......            ...... ..............          3
rmplementation Schedule .............. .               ...  .................. .    3
Procurement   .       .............................  . .      ..........        3
Project Costs and Loan Allocatlon ......................               ..       3
E.  Project Results ..................          .... .................. .....        5
YOK Project Objectives  ..........    . . ...........................           5
YOK Project Activities . ...................               ...............      6
YOK Project Impact . ............................ ..  ......                    8
SEGEN Project Objectives .......                              .........         8
SEGEM Project Activities .. *..o..   ........... ... ...*. ........             9
SEGEM Project Component Impact .............................                    9
SS Project Component Impact ...................    10
F.  Project Sustainability ................. .*40400 .........                      10
G.  Bank Performance  ... . . ...............   .                ........... . .*.    11
H.  Borrower Performance ............6.....*. ................. .    11
I.  Bank-Borrower Project Relationship ........................    12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
J.  Consulting Services .. .................. ......... ......   12
R.  Findings and Lessons ....... ............. ... .... *.......    12
PART It: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TPS BORROWR' S PERSPECTIVE
A.  YOK ........................... . .. ........... .***.**...   15
B.  SEGEN ............    ......... ****....o .......                 16
C.      SIS   ............  .... 0.......  .000.....    ......        is ^1
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORNATION .............. ...... ..... ..... .   20
Table 1.   Related Bank Loans ................................. ..   20
Table 2.   Project Timetable ..... ................ *..O****  ...       21
Table 3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ...... ....   22
Table 4.   Project Implementation Indicators .... .................  23
Table 5.   Project Costs and Financing        ......... . ...........   24
Table 6.   Compliance wlth Loan Conditions .......................   25
Table 7.   Use of Bank Resources . ........ e ....  ....... ... ......  27



PROJECT CO0PLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT (LO&N 2399-TU)
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is on the Industrial Training
Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2399-TU in the amount of US$36.8 million, was
approved on March 27, 1984. The- Loan closed on December 31, 1990, tafter a six-
month extension. Ninety-nine percent of the Loan was disbursed, and the last
disbursement was made on January 24, 1991.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Operations I of the EMENA Regional Office (Preface, Evalt4ation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a Project Completion
Mission in October/November 1990, and is based on the observations and
conclusions of that mission, supervision reports, and the Bank's correspondence
files.   Conclusions also reflect the findings of a report prepared by the
Resident Mission based on interviews with teachers of project-supported schools.
ThL report and a consultant's report for the completion mission are avaLlable
in files.



- iii -
RQPRLCT COMPLETION REPORT
TURREX
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT ILOAN 2399-TUI
Evaluation Summary
A. Qbiectiveg
i.          The main sector objectivo for the Loan war to support the Government
in improving and expanding services for industrial training.  The project was
designed to respond to industry's need for skilled labor to maintain and increase
rates of growth of manufactured exports. Modernizi:;g industries was critiVeal to
maintaining competitiveness in international markets, requiring skilled labor and
modern production and marketing techniques. Specific project objectIvos were to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Council of Higher Education (YOK)
and the Industrial Training Center (SEGEM) to monitor pre-service and in-service
industrial training programs, and to alleviate scarcities of skilled labor
through expansion and improvement of their technical education and training
programs
B.  Imnlementation Experience
ii.         The project was supported by the implementing agencies throughout its
execution.      Project implementation had positive results, and the project
generally met its objectives with the exception of the institut.,on-building
objectives which fell far short of being reached. Most physical targets were
achieved in terms of construction and equipment procured, and enrollment in
project-supported training centers far exceeded appraisal estimates. There were
some delays in project execution when compared to the timing proposed at
appraisal for implementation of the various activitieso. The project closed after
a six-month extension, having disbursed 99% of the Loan.   There were three
important project implementation problems: (a) the chronic shortage of full-time
staff to work on project execution and the resulting lack of impact on
institution-building as envisaged at appraisal: (b) lack of qualified fellowship
candidates to be able to adequately implement the overseas training component;
and (c) failure to implement an in-service teacher training component. These
problems diminished the benefit of the project, in particular the impact of the
technical assistance financed by the Loan.
C. Results
iii.        The main policy objective for the project  was to shift the
orientation of technical education and training from a formal academic process
to one concerned with producing skilled technical manpower needed by the
manufacturing industry; this objective was generally achieved, and a link has
started to develop between the education and training sector and industry.



- iv -
iv.         The project met most of its physlfal targeta, as the eight vocational
colleges, renamed Technician Training Centers (TTC), and the 8EGEM Training
Center are now fully equipped and starting to operate with aw curricula, and
with recognition from industry. A component for in-service training was not
implemented as it proved difficult for TTC teachers to take on the additional
task of in-service training.   In retrospect, the absenco  of this component
diminished the impact of the projectt the use of laboratorles and equipment and
the quality of instruction are below optimum at present; some teachers do not
know how to use the equipment, or the equipment is idle because of teacher
shortages in certain programs; however, use of equipment is expected to improve
as teachers become more familiar with the new curricula and equipment.
VI          The institutional development objective. as set at appraisal for both
YOK and SEGEM were not fully achieved. At present these agencies have limited
capabilities to plan, administer, and manage jointly technician pre-service, in-
service,  and on-the-job training;   the expected transfer of knowledge and
experience to these agencies from the substantial technical assiatance financed
by the Loan was limited because of lack of counterpart staff.
D. Sustainabillitv
vi.         The Government and implementing agencies have been advised on the
need to take certain measures to ensure project sustainability, mainly: (a) the
establishment by YOK of an in-service training program for TTC teachers, to
improve knowledge on the use of equipment, provide more training materials in
Turkish, and assist in organizing laboratory sessions; (b) the monitoring by
YOK's Industrial Training Unit (ITU) and by SEGEM, of provisions for an adequate
operating budget for the Centers; and  (c) the critical need to assess the
staffing requirements of YOK and 8EaEM to ensure their effectiveness.
E. Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.        As this project was considered a pilot project, a Second Industrial
Training Project was approved in FY88 (Ln. 2922-TU for US$115.8 million). The
Second Project expands the model for technician training introduced under the
first project to 20 additional TTCs, and also provides further technical
assistance to YOK. However, the problems that occurred under this first project
persist into the ongoing Second Project; efforts should be pursued to surmount
the more important problems if further Bank funding is to be provided through
YOK. An additional 66 of the 98 vocational colleges remain to be developed.
viii.       This report's recommendations, which are highlighted below, should
be addressed in the context of the ongoing implementation of the Second Project.
TTCe (Vocational Colleges) supported by the project should develop
non-formal programs to offer continuing education and training to
the local community and local industry, in addition to the standard
2-year curricula.



- v -
To provide linkages between education in TTCs and employment,
systems should be developed for standardize testing, certification,
and monitoring of program quality and employment of graduates.
A  decentralized  in-service  teacher-training  program  should  be
establlohed within model TTCs to improve knowledge of new curricula
and new equipment.   wiven the limited capacity for institution-
building at the central government level, certain responsibilities
such as curriculum development should also be decentralized.
Increased project and sector staffing is essential for the
institution-building of YOK, also being supported under the Second
Project. Terms of reference and contracting of key staff required
to achieve project investment and sector objectives should be agreed
as a Condition of Effectiveness.
Systematic training and assistance should be provided by the Bank in
the field of procurement to prevent delays and complaints from
bidders.
Project audLts carried out by Treasury are insufficient ln scope for
the typee of activities financed under PHR projects, and private
audits, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, should be
agreed for future Loans.



PRJECT COMPLETION REPOR
mm
INDUSTRIAL TRAlNING PROJECT ILOAN 2499-TIB
PART I: p7OJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prgject Identity
Nasai         Industrial Training Project
Loan Number: 2399-TU
RVP Unit:     EMENA Region
Countrys      Turkey
Soctors       Education and Training
B. Backaround
1,          Sector Development Objectives (at Appraisal). The main objective for
lending for the education and training sector in Turkey was to support the
Government's policy to improve industrial productivity. This included training
for technology development, and the development of appropriate industrial
training programs and policies, including the development of measures to reduce
the burden of recurrent expenditures of industrial training on Government.
2.          Policy ConteAt.  The project supported the implementation of the
three main Government industrial training policies:  (a) Improve Effectivenv-k5
Agencies involved in industrial training should improve effectiveness by linking
their training more directly to the needs of industry through cooperative
programs with local industry;   (b) Expansion of Provision of Trainings  To
increase the provision of industrial training, new options would be considered,
for example, a national system for training services to small-scale enterpriieso
and   (c) Institutional Development.   The establishment of an appropriate
institutional framework and a legal and financial basis for training levies on
all industrial employers would be essential elements for industrial training to
prosper, and to encourage private industry to undertake more training.
C. Proiect Objectives and Descri-tion
3.          Project Objectives.   The project's specific industrial training
objectives were consistent with the Governments economic objective to maintain
high rates of growth of manufactured exports by improving productivity with
better trained, skilled labor. The project had three main objectives:
(a)   to strengthen the institutional capacity of YOK and SEGEM to provide
industrial training programs;
(b)   to alleviate scarcities of technicians in industry by assisting the
development of pre-service technician training programs; and



(a)   to improve industrial productivity by developing SEGEM's (Industrial
Training and Development Center) in-service, on-the-job, industrial
training programs for middle level manpower and profetsional staff,
and to esatablish a basis for a national industrial trainlng system.
4.          Project Description. To achieve the above-mentioned objectives, the
project provided fort
(a)   equipment,  furniture,  and minor  refurblihing  for eight  pilot
Technician Training Centers  (TTCs)  under YOKt    and technical
assistance to YOK for curriculum and staff development for TTC*, and
to strengthen the TTC management system and future project
development;
(c)   equipment and technical assistance to SEGEM for the development of
a framework for a national industrial training system, and for
program expansion; and
(d)   overseas fellowship training for staff of S'8 (State Institute of
Statistics).
As these actLvities involved three distinct implementing agencies, Section N of
this report will addrees project results by Agency.
4.          Project Design and Preparation.  The project was designed to help
meet the gap between industry's demand for highly skilled labor and shortages of
advanced technical training programs. Project preparation proceeded on schedule
according to the scope agreed at identificationt   SEGEM,  having assumed
responsibilities for providing in-service, on-the-job training, would need
further support in the form of equipment and technical assistance for institution
building.   YOK,  as a newly created agency responsible for post-secondary
education would require assistance with its plan to upgrade and remodel the
existing two-year, post-secondary institutions offering a variety of two-year
vocational education programs. The project proposed to convert about eight of
the then existing 53 vocational colleges (now 94), into more well suited
Industrial Training Centers. The project wab considered to be a pilot, with
possible extension to other Centers.   A Second Industrial Training Project
upgrading an additional 20 Training Centers, and including support for Technical
Teacher Training in four Faculties, was approved by the Board in March 1988 (Ln.
2922-TU, for US$115.8 million).
Retroenective on Proiect Desion and Qrganizati2a
S.          The project was well designed,  and was responsive to Turkey'r
priority needs for industrial training as outlined above. This is reflected in
the success of the project at completion, now delivering modern training to a
much larger number of students than anticipated. However, it is useful to note
as a lesaon that the risks identified during project preparation persisted during



-3-
implementation, and still remain under the ongoing follow-up project; there risks
related mainly to institutional development and staffing.
6.          In&sttutional  Devolopnent  in  Weak  ISnl.msnting  Asenai-s.    A
substantial technical assistance program was included in the desjgr, of the
project to assist the Government achieve institution-building objectives. The
agencies were to improve coordination, monitoring, and policy development for
technical and vocational training.  Because of lack of staff in the project
agencies at appraisal,  the technical  assistance was to provide as well,
administrative support to avert risks in project implementatior.  In the case of
YOX in particular, this created extreme dependency on consultants, which has
continued under the Second Project.  Project staff are gener_lly professors
seconded from their teaching positions, who usually teach 10 hours per week.
This system is aloo used as a reward to increase income. The problem arises from
the low pay structure for civil servants, including teachers, and decreases the
effectiveness, commitment, and accountability of staff in public agfncies. The
Bank reluctantly accepted this arrangement, and was to monitor it closely.
Agreements reached under the Second Industrial Training Project to duly staff an
"Industrial Training Unit" and integrate the work of consultants have also
failed.  Lesson: Institution buildinq oblective shbopld be hiahlighted in Loan
Aareements:  kov 4ncremental  *ositions regaured to achileve groect obiectives
should bea svecified to ensure-accountability both-at the gentral gp_vrnment andA
imalementing acencv levels:  terms-of-roference and contractina of key staff
should be defined as a Condition o_f  ffectivoness.
7.          Lack of Inter- and Sntra-Sector Coordination.  An issue identified
during preparation was the lack of coordination across sector agencies, as well
as the need for linkages with industry, which would be a key to the success of
technician training. The Bank agreed to two parallel project implementation
units as it would h-va been difficult for the two agencies to work together. In
retrospect, conceding to thia separation did not strengthen sector coordination,
in particular, the role envisaged for SEGEM to oversee the relevance of technical
a, J vocational education to needs of industry and labor markets.   Lessons
acause eoctor coordnation and *ccountability are difficult in Turkey, the Bank
should oromote more the role of SPO in achievina these obiectiveu.
D. Proiect Implementation
8.          Loan Effectiveness and Start-up. A two-month delay occurred in Loan
effectiveneos due to procedural delays in issuance of a Ministerial Decree to
ratify the Loan and Project Agreements. YOK was able to start implementation
quickly with the contracting of technical assistance, and continued a steady pace
throughout the project years. SEGEM, however, experienced long delays in start
up because of problems in agreeing on 4he work program for the technical
assistance.   SEGEM also had to work with the uncertainty of not having a
permanent legal status, which caused the postponement of project activities.
These delays persisted throughout project implementation resulting in a six-month
extension of the Loan Closing Date.



9.          Implementation Schedule.  (a) YORt The operation of TTCs was delayed
by two year. mainly because of slow construction;   equipment had to be
temporarily stored until buildings wete completed, causing frustration for
teachers and suppliers not being able to start their training and installation.
The implementation of the technical assistance proceeded well, with delays mainly
in the fellowship program; lack of qualified teacher candidates for overseas
fellowships with appropriate language skills is now a well-recognized problem for
Turkey. (b) BEGEM: Both the implementation of the technical assistance and start
up of the SEGEM Training Center suffered long delays (four years).  The main
reason for the delay was the legal uncertainty under which SEGEM operated which
caused itL management to be cautious and hesitant. The Ministry of Industry and
the Bank expected the legislation to be passed easily, but it proved to take five
years. (c) SIB: The total implementation of the fellowships for 8IS took three
years longer than envisaged at appraisal because of the lack of suitable
candidates with the appropriate English language training (ELT) -- SIS ensured
the success of the program by having its fellows first receive sufficient ELT
before approving their departure.
10.         Procuresent.   (a) YoKs   At the time of shortlisting firms for
technical assistance, the issue of conflict of interest was raised with the
Procurement Unit; this was due to the fact that the local company shortlisted,
TEKSIS, was assisting YOK in project preparation and was closely linked to YOK.
At the Bank's request, YOK confirmed that it had severed all contractual
relationships with TEKSIS, and it wished TEKSIS to be shortlisted. A consortium
of TEKSIS/British Council/General Electric was awarded the contract. The issue
of conflict of interest resurfaced when allegations were made of equipment awards
favoring companies closely related to the same holding company as TEKSIS.
Several other complaints were received regarding YOK's evaluation and recommended
contract awards for equipment. (b) SEGEK and 8I3: No procurement problems arose
in the bidding process with these agencies. Lesson: The issue of conflict of
interest is a serious concern that may cause many Problems, often real and/or
alleged. The Government and imolementina agencies should be made aware. throuah
systematic trainina, of their res2onsibilitiel in 2reventine procurement groblems
such as collusion of firms.
11.         Project Costs and Loan Allocations.  The Actual Total Project Cost
is estimated at US$52.4, with the Dank financing US$36.4 million, or 69% of total
costs. At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$44.4 million, with the
Bank financing US$36.8 million, or 83% of total costs (see Table 5).   The
Government contributed to the project a substantially higher amount than
appraised mainly because of high6r expenditures than originally allocated for
construction and for teacher's salaries--while the appraisal envisaged only
refurbishments, five of the eight TTCs were constructed new and the other three
had new wings added.   Also, teacher's salaries have increased substantially
relative to 1985 wages. The additional US$8.0 million provided by the Government
reflects the importance given to Technical and Vocational education in Turkey.
These additional funds were all budgeted directly by the various universities to
which the TTCs are attached. Regarding Bank financing, in YOK, there was an



-5-
increase in the amount allocated for consulting aervices from US$3.8 million to
US$5.5 million, and in SEGEM for equipment from US$1.0 million to US$2.1 million.
Lesson:  xenditurm*  on consultina services will continue to be high due to lack
of proiect imElementing caeacity of executino paencies.
E. Proiect Results
(i)  Council of Higher Education 1YOK) (83% of 2roiect costal
(a) YOK Project Objectives
12.         The main policy objecteve of the project was to shift the orientation
from formal academic education, to one concerned with producing skilled technical
manpower needed by the manufacturing industry, to improve quality and
productivity in manufacturing (see para 2).   This objective was generally
achieved for the project facilities, and a link has been developed between these
Centers and industry.   Industry is collaborating well in cooperative work
programs and is slowly understanding the philosophy and value behind their
involvement in advisory committees for the functioning of Technician Training
Centers (TTC). Plant managers and entrepreneurs that have developed links with
the Training Centers can appreciate the difference between pre and post project
schools, which have shifted from theoretical training to fully equipped
technology centers promoting higher standards.   The eight project TTCs are
operating with new curricula, integrating ir.i.ustry-based-learning (IBL), with the
recognition from industry. Because student selection, IBL, and employment of
graduates is all carried out at a national level, there appears to be a high
employment rate of graduates, based on the information provided by two TTCs which
have followed up on their graduates.  This national selection process is a
positive policy for Turkey as it promotes mobility and thus more equity across
rural and urban areas, in access to education and employment.
13.         One aspect of the project was that "Vocational Colleges of Higher
Education" were to be renamed "Technician Training Centers" to reflect the
superior technology education level of graduates of upgraded schools. However,
this change in name did not take place as employers still place a premium on
graduates from "vocational" colleges;  furthermore, students also attach a
premium to higher chances for employment as graduates of vocational colleges and
see better opportunities to become entrepreneurs. The number of applicants for
these schools far exceeds their enrollment capacity. Although the project is
ahead of industry in technology and many graduates will be under-employed
technically, this is a necessary step in modernizing industry and fully supports
the objectives stated at project identification (see para 5).
14.         An important project goal was the Institutional development objective
to assist the Council of Higher Education (YOK) to develop the capacity to
efficiently plan, monitor, and coordinate higher level technician education in



Turkey.  This objectLve was not achieved as defined at appraisal, and, more
importantly, it is not being achieved under the follow-up protect which also has
a substantial technical assistance component.   YOK has not todate staffed
satisfactorily the Industrial Training Unit (ITU), resulting in a lack of
transfer of knowledge and expertise from the technical assistance. The technical
assistance itself did contribute significantly to the development of the concept
of TTC model to deliver technical level education in Turkey.   It is also
important to note that, under the technical assistance contract, local and
foreign experts worked jointly which guaranteed the success of the program, and
its relevance to Turkey. Lessonst (ii As institutional develonMent obiectives
are also not beina achioeve  under tho leconfi Industrial Trainina Prolect
ILn.2922-TU. the Government should considor agnointina a Zask Force to assess
the rol- of YOK. and to asses the offectiveness of the use of Bank fuds for
finanoina technical assistanco in such cases. A continued disannointment to the
Bank has been the lack of staff in YOK and the lack of integration of the
teohnical assistance.  Eiiv  Failure to stronathen YOK as a lead  rofessionsal
reaulatorv aaoncy coints to alternative xolutions such as the need for
decentralisation and delegation of such resnonsibilities directly to lat
universities, orofessional associations. and/or local authorit-es.
(b) YOR Project Activities
15.         Physical Targets. The construction and equipping of eight TTCs, the
development of currlcula in 11 technical program specializations, and the
provisions of overseas fellowships for teachers, and TTC managers, were mostly
completed as appraised; exceptions were in the underrun of fellowships and the
dropping of the petroleum technology program and in-service training component.
In terms of student enrollment, at present enrollment is more than twice that
envisaged at appraisal--it was estimated at appraisal that 8,000 technical
graduates would be produced over a 10-year period; based on today's enrollment,
22,400 graduates would be produced over that period. A much larger number of
students can be appropriately trained given the size of facilities and
availability of well-equipped laboratories, although the quality of training is
not yet the optimum because of shortages of well-trained teachers and lack of
training materials. This greater enrollment also responds to the large demand
for education at all levels, with applicants far exceeding available place3.
Thus, the objective of producing skilled labor for industry is being achieved.
16.         Use of Equipment.   The  instructional  laboratory and workshop
equipment purchased has been generally of good quality and sufficient in quantity
(although in some programs there was excess of certain equipment). The planning
and monitoring for the provision of appropriate furniture and laboratory/
classroom arrangement was rather weak for the desired high-tech environment of
a TTC.  Delays in construction also affected the commissioning and use of
equipment which had to be stored for prolonged periods.  The textbooks and
laboratory manuals have been mostly in English, presenting a problem to
instructores; those who have sufficient English knowledge have been able to
translate them at their own initiative; generally, the utilization of equipment



has been lse than expected, in particular by teachers who have not had the
English language skills. Also, equipment war purchased for schools which do not
offer a program; this seemed to be the case for the roads engineering program,
where the equipment is sitting idle. In particular, there has been little use
of the MV2000 Data General computers because of lack of installation and training
in a networked environment. Also, no software war provided for use in the PC
environment, which is predominant in industry. Lesson: The aggrooriate use of
the  oquiDment and curricula in TTCs affects aualitv of  anstruction and of
qraduates: this grocess should be monitored by YOK, yroviding assistance where
nocessary.  Lessons are beinq used under tho Second Project to iaorove the use
of eauioment and quality of instruction, but additional staff are necessary in
YOK to focus on this task.
17.         Instructor In-service Training.  A decision was made early in the
project, with Bank agreement, not to go ahead with the development of an
Instructor In-Service Training Program as appraised.   The reasons for this
decision were not documented specifically, although one reason appears to have
been that teachers and TTC facilities would be overburdened if they also
undertook this task. In retrospect, this was a mistake for the project, as lack
of appropriate teacher training, and lack of teaching materials, has been an
important weakness of the project, diminishing the quantity and quality of
education being provided at the TTCs. The lack of an in-service training program
was further aggravated by: poor English language knowledge of fellows;
inadequate instructor training programs overseas which focused on students rather
than teachers; and a 30% drop-out rate of trained fellow instructors.,
18.         A strong staff development program and in-service training is a key
to the success of technical education, in particular since many of the present
TTC instructors have not had any opportunity to update their skills and learn new
technologies. Certain privileged teachers with leadership qualities, have taken
the initiative to translate materials and benefit from the equipment and
materials available in English;   others are very limited in their capacity.
Teachers have indicated their interest for in-service training through the use
of exemplary teachers and TTC administrators.  In future, as TTCs develop, a
model for decentralized in-service training should be supported.    L4rson:
Immediate efforts need to be made by YOK to supoort the start-up of an in-service
,instructor trainina model throuch TTCs. includina 2rovision of laboratorv/
workshop materials.    This should be reviewed in the context of the Second
Proiect (Ln.2922-TU) suPoortino the development of the four Faculties for
technical teacher education.
Teachers that participated in fellowships can leave their jobs after
completing the compulsory service required, or after refunding the
cost of their fellowship. Electronics is one field where teacher
retention is difficult as the private sector offers more attractive
salaries and opportunities.



(c)  YOK Project Impact
19.         Notwithstanding certain deficiencies mentioned above, the ,roject has
brought high benefits to the training of skilled technicians to improve
industrial quality and productivity. Based on interviews, one concludes that
teachers and industry are appreciative of what the project has brought to Turkey,
recognizing that this is an important step in improving labor productivity.
Industrialists are now beginning to recognize the benefit. of a relationship with
their teaching institutions, not only because of the skilled manpower they will
receive, but because of the assistance TTCs can provide for improved technology
in manufacturing, and quality control through testing and research services.2
Although TTCs are not operating to their potential because of recognized
weaknesses, they are expected to overcome these problems as they gain experience
and continue to receive support from YOK's Industrial Training Unit (ITU)
responsible for project management and vocational higher education in YOK.
Substantial improvement has already been observed from one year ago when Centers
were less experienced.
(ii)  Industrial Training and Developoent Center (SEGEM) (15% of costs).
(a) SEGEN Project Objectives
20.         The SEGEM component was to address two of the main reasons for low
labor productivity in industry: (a) the lack of an appropriate institutional
framework for in-service industrial training programs; and (b) the lack of a
financial incentive for employers to provide training, resulting in poor use of
existing manpower in industry (see para. 2). The main policy objectivea of the
component were generally achieved as project activities financed a body of
krawledge which assisted in the adoption, in April 1990, of a national policy for
in-service, on-the-job training programs for small and medium scale industries
(KOSGEB).   This new law created a powerful and large agency, empowered with an
annual budget of US$400 million.  A substantial source of revenues for this
budget would come from earmarked taxes to industry. SEGEM was instrumental in
developing and assisting in the passage of the legislation.
21.    specific  program  objectives  to  train  middle  level  manpower  and
professional staff were partly achieved, as the component was late in taking off,
and did little tralning in the last project year. SEGEM's training programs were
offered mainly to the larger public sector companies which were able to pay for
services. At the time of appraisal SEGEM was training annually about 4,800
participants for the public sector and 2,000 participants for the private sector.
The number of participants for the public sector peaked in 1987-88 (6,319
participants), and decreased through 1990 because of the indecision about SEGEN's
2      Some  TTCs  have  obtained  approval  from  the  Turkish  Standards
Institute for testing and certification of products.



- 9 -
legal status. For private sector enrollment, the number decreased throughout the
project life.   SEGEM staff also provided consultancies to industry, with an
average of three per year during the project years, through 1989. SEGEM's new
mandate iu to provide in-service-training for private small and medium
enterprises, with no direct charges to the enterprise. Lesson: Coat recovery
is feasible for in-service traLnine from woll-establish&d laraer firms in Turkey.
noe Government should  omot the develonm0 nt of arivate-sector. fg-charaine
trainina institutes..
(b) BEGEt Project Activities
22.   Physical Targets.   The project did meet its physical targets through
contracting technical assistance for the development of a National Industrial
Training System (NITS), and through the development of programs for in-service
training activities at its newly equipped training center. SEGEM also received
support through the project to develop an assistance program to help enterprises
execute their own training programs. However, a pre-investment/feasibility study
for a second project was not carried out becaune of SEGEM's instability during
the project years. Fourteen major reports were produced towards "A Proposal for
a National Industrial Training System for Turkey" (available in files). The main
conclusions were that there is a great need for coordinating industrial training
in Turkey through the establishment of a committee at the national level, the
development of occupational standards and a national accreditation system, and
the improvement of labor market information systems. Unfortunately, few SEGEM
staff were able to work closely with foreign experts and it is anticipated that
it will be difficult for SEGEM to continue workings towards a national industrial
training system g.ven its limited staff.   Lesson: For technical assistance
exoenditures. the government should keep in mind that the benefits from these
exoenditures in terms of institutional develooMent and orofessional staff
developnent are directly Po&oMrtional to the number of counterpart staff 2rovided
to work with foricin experts. * oovernment should give oreat imyortance t__
monitorina the iolementation of such arooraus to onsure that the maximum benefit
is derived from these expenditures.
23.         There were two main reasons for the long delays in the implementation
of this component: (a) problems between the client and the consulting firm on
the appropriate candidates and activities to develop a proposal for a National
Industrial Training System;   and (b) the final approval of the legislation
establishing KOSGEB, which was expected in 1983, and was passed at the conclusion
of the project, in April 1990. As A result of these delays, the Ankara Training
Center, equipped with project funds, became operational only in 1991.
(c) 5E303 Project Component Impact
24.         As mentioned earlier in the objectives  (para.  21),  SEGEN was
instrumental in the passage of the new Law that goes far beyond SEGEM's operating
objective of providing training and consultancies to industry.   It is a



- 10 -
comprehensive program designed to assist small and medlum size industries to
support their development to compete effectively with high quality foreign
industries.   To provide these services, eight Centers will be established,
including entrepreneurship development, quality control, marketing, and
financing. SEGEM's main role is expected to be in the provision of training, in
particular in the 11 program specializations supported by the project, and will
assist enterprises to develop new technology and train employees in modern
production methods.   At present, SEGEM estimates that 240 seminars  ;.111 be
offered in 1991 to workers in small and medium scale industries, free-of-charge,
including accommodations at their Ankara location. SEGEM also plans to continue
offering training on-site, with two-hour seminars. Adequate staffing is now the
main concern for the operation of the Centex.
(iii) State Institute of Statistics (S!S) (2% of orolect costsa.
(a) SIS Project Component impact
25.   Although small, this component achieved well its objective of providing
fellowship training to a number of its staff, to improve quality of its national
statistics, in particular, national economic indicators. Eighty-eight percent
of staff (or 36 of 41) that received fellowships have remained in SSS, and the
opportunity provided them with professional development within the Agency. All
of the fellowships were carried out in the US through the Census Bureau. SIS
conscientiously administered this program through careful selection and language
training for its fellows, to ensure that maximum benefit would be derived.  flu
received no technical assistance for the oroanization and administration of the
proaram. and should be recoanized for their effective management.
F. Proigct Sustainabilitv
26.         YOK Project Component.   An average of US$3.3 million has been
financed by the Bank per TTC in equipment and fellowships only. There are three
key factors that need immediate attention to guarantee that the expected benefits
from this Loan and for the Industrial Training II Loan to produce positive
returns:  (a) the establishment of an in-service instructor-training program
through model TTCs, to improve the knowledge of the use of the equipment, provide
more training materials in Turkish, and assist in organizing laboratory sessionso
ongoing workshops organized by consultants under the Second Project are
insufficient to increase the use of the equipment and teaching quality--
Additional funding should be provided for model TTCs to develop and organize
instructor training and conduct workshops taught by teachers who excel in their
areas (see paras. 16-17); (b) the monitoring by YOK's ITU, of the provision of
an appropriate operating budget to guarantee a minimum staffing, and of supplies
and maintenance for the Centers; and (c) the critical need to assess the
effectiveness of YOK's ITU and staffing to oversee technical and vocational
higher education in Turkey (see paras. 6,14).



- U1 -
27.         5X363  Project Component.   Because of the strength of the now
legislation, 8S3EM has secured excellent resources to maintain operations at a
high quality level. However, because of recent Government hiring restrictions,
SEGEM will not have the expected staffing, and may continue having difficulties
in attracting and retaining staff. The Bank will continue monitoring progress
in the start-up of the Ankara Training Center, and through the Ministry of
Industry and Trade, developments in making the new legislation operational.
G. Bank Performance
28.         The project was carefully prepared by the Government with Bank
assistance, and this is reflected by the fact that it was successfully completed.
The preparation and appraisal of the project were carried out with relatively
modest Bank staff resources equivalent to a total 83 staff weeks. Supervision
resources were below average with 7.6 staff-weeks per year.
29.         The Bank identified at Project Preparation, the risk of not achieving
the desired institutional development objectives of the project, and accordingly,
more technical assistance was included in the project design; it was also agreed
that greater supervision would be required. However, the technical assistance
did not result in institution-building, and no additional supervision resources
were spent. Lessons  The same situation is reo-atino itself under th  onoina
Second Prolect (nLa 2922-TUb. where tecbnical assistance is not achievins the
desired results (car-as 6 141.
30.         Project  execution  is recognized to be an  imposition on any
implementing agency, in particular given their inherent weaknesses.  Project
management requires a multitude of skills to ensure the timely execution of
project investment activities as well as management of sector policy adjustments
and daily project admLnistration, including procurement, accounting, and
auditing. The importance of project management and supervision is underestimated
by both the Bank and the Borrower given the limited resources given to these
tasks.  Lesson:  The Bank and the Governmnt should work closely in aivina
orioritv to secure the necessary additional resources to execute and sunervise
H. Borrower Performance
31.         All three implementing agencies fully supported the project from
preparation through implementation and were cooperative with the Bank. They
performed relatively well in contracting the requLred technical assistance, and
in making available the appropriate local counterpart funds. Their willingness
to work with foreign and local consultants was generally good, with some
exceptions which caused delays in project execution.
32.         YOK failed, however, to act on an issue that was repeatedly raised
by almost every mission for the seven years of project implementation--to provide



- 12 -
the adriquate full-time staff for project management and for overseelng technLcal
and vocational higher education. This contlnues to be an issue under the follow-
up project.
33.         SEGEM and SIS were very cautious ln using Bank funds, and enoured
that expenditures were justified, although this delayed the project and
diminished benefits.
I. Dank-Borrower Project Relationshin
34.         The main strengths of the Dank-Borrower relatlonship has been the
good will to continue to address the weaknesses in the sector, with which
implementing agencies have to work with. Generally, work relationshipo were
good, even though basic problems persisted throughout the length of the project.
J. Consulting Services
35.         YOK utilized a substantial amount of Bank funding (US$5.5 million)
for services of consultants through TEKSIS/BC/GE. The second project provides
a further US$7.5 million also for experts services only.   One of the main
objectives of this substantlve technical assistance is to promote the development
of YOK; however, this is still not taking place under the Second Loan, and there
appears to be a lack of commitment to take action and assume responsibilities
directly and with limited technical assistance. Lesson: SPO and Treasury need
to- address the staffina constrAints in the education sector aaencies that haye
led to heavy reliance on costly technical assistancze to be used even for sianle
administrative and accountina duties.
36.         SEGEM used the consulting services of the ILO.  SEGEM initially
turned down several candidates, and did not find satisfactory the work of
consultants. Once agreements were reached on the revision of the work programs,
the consultancy continued smoothly and was productive.
K. Findinos and Lessono
37.         At present, a Second Industrial Training Project (Ln. 2922-TU) is
under implementation, expanding the model of Technician Training introduced under
this pilot project to 20 additional TTCs; the Second Project also provides
further technical assistance for YOK.  Under thls firat Project, objectives
regarding institution-buildlng and teacher development were not achieved, but
Bank financing for these activitles continues under the Second Project. The
Government should address the weaknesses of YOK that persist and are still
preventing the same objectives from being achieved under the ongoing Second
Project. Progress should be demonstrated in these areas before further Bank-
funded expansLon of the technlcal and vocational education system continues.



- 13 -
38.         The following recommendations need to be addressed in the context of
the ongoing iniplementation of the Second Industrial Training Projects
Us- of ZTC* lVocational Collesasu  as Communitv Facilities:   A policy
should be adopted by the sector to encourage the use of education and
training facilities by the community and industry. Mass media may be used
to promote continuing education offered during evening hours and the
summer, in particular for women. A separate administrator for extended
programs could be appointed in schools, who would oversee the operation of
these activities.
|"nitoring and Xvaluation systems:  One of the objectives of this training
project was to provide for graduates a direct link to employment
opportunities.   The success of training programs should be monitored
through the development of a standardized and computerized system to: (i)
follow-up on employment of graduates (perhaps through Social Security
Numbers);    (ii) determine employer satisfaction; and  (iii) monitor
compliance by TTCs of quality teaching standards until testing and
certification can be applied uniformly (see para. below).
Standardized Graduate Examninations An Vocational Colloaes of Higher
Education  (TTCUbs   For  formal  two-year  programs  offered  in these
vocational colleges, standardized graduate examinations should be
established as a step to ensure quality standards across TTCs. This may
be first initiated in the 28 TTCs supported by the two Industrial Training
projects as they are consistent in quality of resources.
Proiect  Staf fina is Essential  for- Institutional Develogment:i   The
institutional development objectives of the project fell far short of
being achieved mainly because of lack of permanent counterpart staff in
the implementing agencies. To ensure better prospects of achieving these
objectives in future projects, it is recommended that by Loan
Negotiations, terms of reference for key staff in the implementing agency
be finalized, and that their contracting should be a Condition of
Effectiveness.
In-service Training is Essential for the Use of New Eouipvent and
New/UyMraded Curricula. Well planned, national in-service training is
essential to update the skills of existing teachers if new equipment is to
be used effectively and efficiently;  at present, there are too many
teachers whose technical knowledge is outdated, and who have not
benefitted from continuing education. The magnitude of this problem is
serious as teachers have trouble using equipment and lack teaching
materials. The extensive fellowship program financed under the project
was not effective in making teachers proficient in the use of specific
equipment and underetand complex training materials, almost always
available in English only.  Overseas fellowship programs serve general
educational development objectives, while in-service training is necessary
for knowledge of new curricula and equipment-specific training. As TTCs



- 14 -
develop, they should conduct In-servic^ Teacher Training program., auA a
formal system should be developed to support such activities.
Intra- _  t          Coordingltio & Acgountabilty is Eez9ssarv .g RnsurA
the eyvelogealt of the Zucgwtiog and Trainina Sectgor To promote sector
development, and improve project managemenf and efficient use of sector
financLal resources, the Bank should make it an explicit objective to
routinely involve in project implementation issues, both SPO and
Treasury/Finance.   Specifically in this project the two implementing
agencies, YOK and SEGEM were to work closely with Lndustry to achieve
sector development objectives; very little of the cooperation envioaged at
appraisal took place, and the agencies implemented their programs
separately.
Procurement of Servic2s and oogds:  Handling complaints from bidders was
time consuming under this project. More direct assistance to the Borrower
and further training is needed by the Bank on procurement procedures to
avoid rllegations of misprocurement. The Resident Mission is expected to
play a more active role in the area of procurement and provide training
courses on a continuing basis.
Audit Comolisace.  Although audit reports were systematicaily carried out
by Treasury Auditors, the scope of the audits was very limited; no site
inspections were carried out or assessment of project expenditures, and no
management letter was prepared. As improving Treasury auditors is a long-
term solution, for social sector operations in the near future, private
audits should be required, with Terms of Reference agreed during
negotiations. Also, stricter audit requirements are essential to
operations where very large technical assistance contracts are involved.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following are the evaluations submitted by the three implementing
agencies.
A. XQZ
(1) Project Achievements
In general all objectLves of the Project have beeni achieved in time.   20
curricula on the main 12 areas (Control and InstrumentatLon, tlecolmunic.tions,
industrial electronica, electrical *ngineering (4), mechanical englneering (2),
air conditioning and refrigeration (2), foundry technology, agricultural
engineering (2), computar science, petroleum engineering, petrochemical and
refinery, construction technology (3)), have been developed. 199 instructors
were trained abroad during the project period. Training have been provided to
some YOK administrators and project school managers abroad. In addition, project
school managers had undergone various managemnt programs.
The most up to date equipment have been procured and put into use in eight TTCc.
Already existing school-lndustry link has been tightened by industry based
training and by establishing better functioning advisory boards.
The TTCU are now offerLng various courses to the community, enrollment of student
exceeded figures foreseen at the Project Appraisal Report.  TTC instructors
already prepared some 20 course documents and books.
The TTCc have started to function as quality control institutLons to their
communities.
Improvements encountered at t}soe TTCs are considerable in every respect. But
additional time is needed for further progress in curriculum implementation,
equipment utilization and services provided to the community.
(ii) Bank Performance
Close cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower is essentlal. The projects
initiated during the years of 1984-1985 suffered lack of strong cooperation. As
an example, in the first industrial training project, in-service teacher training
function was assigned to the Izmir TTC, currlculum development actlvities were
assigned to Izmir and Istanbul TTCo. The existing 3 Technlcal Education and 1
Vocational Education FacultLes should be considered as institutions to provide
in-service teacher training and curriculum development. Besides, the improvement
of these institutions in the first project should have been taken as priority
need.
High turn over of the World Bank experts assigned for particular projects is
causing some misleading evaluations. Providing a thorough orientatlon to the
newly assigned experts about the educational system and legal structures of
institutions may help considerably to the function of supervision.  In this
respect, the functions of the Resident M$ision could be extended.



- 16 -
B. 8EEM
SUMMARY AND BACKGROUMD
The Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM) was founded in 1978 as a
semi autonomous Industrial Training Agency attached to Ministry of Industry with
the main objectives of
-     Arranging  training  programmes  for  newly  employed  university
graduates
-     Upgrading skills of professionals in industry
-     Developing the skills of its own staff
-     Providing documentation and infozmation services to industry
To further __.'engthen SEGEM's capabilities,  the government signed a loan
agreement (US $ 3,620,000) with the World Bank in 1984 as part of an overall
larger loan to fulfill the objectives of:
1 -   Designing and coordinating National industrial training system
2 -   Providing equipment for the production of training materials and
audiovisual aide
3 -   Expanding the scope and quality of SEGEM's Industrial Training
activities
4 -   Undertaking engineering and feasibility studies for future technical
programmes
As a starting point in the implementation of the project, SEGEM prepared a letter
of invitation for consultancy in technical assietance based on guidelines
provided by IBRD.  Twenty four organizations submitted quotations and SEGEM
evaluation committee ranked ILO in the first place among the 6 short listed
organizations.
After negotiations between SEGEM and ILO US $ 1,869,275 was allocated for the
execution of part 8-5,6 of the loan agreement by ILO on the lasis of expenses
plus 13% overhead charges, thus allocating the remaining US $ 1,750,725 for the
procurement of equipment and materials as stated in part 4-A of loan agreement.
ILO recruited thirty one foreign experts for a total of 154 months, arranged 47
overseas fellowship programs for 29.44 months and procured US $ 241,022 worth of
audiovisual equipment during the project for a total of US $ 144,394.  The
remaining amount was reallocated for the purchase of laboratory equipment and
materials in addition to the initial allocation of US $ 1,750,725.



- 17 -
The final report prepared by ILO is included in the appendix to be referred for
further information.
Equipment and materials for the following technology laboratories have been
procured through international and local biddlng and a "training center of
excellence" has been established.
- Hydraulics Lab.
- Pneumatics Lab.
- Flexible manufacturing systems Lab.
- Heating, ventilating, air conditioning, refrigeration Lab.
- Non destructive testing lab.
- Welding Lab.
- Fire alarm and extinguishing systems Lab.
- Computer Lab.
- Electronics Lab.
- Electricity Lab.
At project and a law had been passed by the Parliament (April 1990) to merge
SEGEM into a larger organization, KOSGES, with basic objectives to support the
Small and Medium Industrial Sector through loans, technical asseitance, training
and consultancy. The law also provided a legal base to continue the programs
which SEGEM had been undertaking.
DISCUSSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A) Assee3ment of achievements of the project objectives
The project has been very successful in its objectives to strengthen SEGEM's
activities in scope and quality by establishing a trainlng center of excellence.
The functions of training and consultancy which SEGEM had been undertaking have
easily been incorporated in XOSGEB to support the development of small and medium
industries and 50 training programs have been arranged to date with more than 200
more planned for 1991. SEGEM's modern training laboratories has enabled 1OSGE0
to offer immediate services to small and medium enterprises.
An audiovisual equipment and training materials production unit has been
established which also could be very easily incorporated in KOSGEB to continue
its activities.
SEGEM staff have been trained by foreign experts to develop their own training
capabilities and in various subjects such as modules of employable skills,
occupational stnndards and training methodology, thus they became qualified to
continue activities after KOSGEB took on its responsibilities.
Overseas training in various technical fields was also offered to SEGEM staff to
strengthen their capabilities.
The consultants assigned to design the framework of a National system produced
14 technical reports including draft legislation to incorporate the system into



- 18 -
an overall human resources development and employment program which provided
appreciable contribution to the SPO/WB. task force research project.
Conclusions and recommendations provided by theme reports will be given due
consideration by KOSGEB to satisfy the great need for coordinating Industrial
training in Turkey, an issue which K(SO5E is well aware of and willing to
undertake.
As for the industrial training consultancy facility, the technology training
equipment will again provide substantial aid to give KOSGEB the capability to
serve as a center to develop new technology and to traln employeos in modern
methods of productivity improvement.
B) Assessment of the Bank's performance
The Bank was quite supportive and cooperative during the implementation of the
project but substantial delays experienced in dlsbursement process especially the
reimbursement of L/Ce caused difficulties and led to further delays in
procurement.
The borrower thinks that it is useful for the borrowers to obtain more detailed,
reqular, statements of expenditure from the Dank ehowing the amounts debited from
the loan (and their USS equivalents) in order to be able to check out the
balances regularly and decide on further expenses.
C) Assessment of the Borrower's perfcrmance
The loan has been almost fully disbursed which indicates that the selection of
appropriate candidates to be employed as experts and the pending legislation to
formalize the status of SEGEM and SEGEM's being instrumental in the passage of
the new law.
Because of the entitlement to severan(  pay a substantial amount of SElEO
personnel resigned and SEGEM does not  .;4 11 have the expected staffing due to
recent hiring conatraints, for this reason the technology laboratories are not
perfectly operational yet.
C. State Tnstitute of Statistics (SIS1
Industrial Training Project 2399-TU Part C which was allocated for the State
Institute of Statistics was successfully completed at the end of 1990.
This component covered only overseas fellowship training in statistics for SIS
staff. The project achieved its objective of providing fellowship training to
a number of our staff,  improved quality of our national statistics;   in
particular, various fields of economic statistics and computer usage.



- 19 -
8I8 completed the fellowship program through the US Census Bureau Contract. A
total of 41 SIB staff received 207 man/months of training in the USA at the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, bareau of Economic Analysis and International
Statistical Programs Center.
All candidates participated in refresher training in English at the Turkish
American Association in Ankara before going to the USA.
We have found the fellowship program highly useful because our returning staff
have greatly contributed to the work of our institute, the training has assisted
in their professional development, and allowed many of them to be promoted to
more senior posts.
SI8 would like to express their sincere thanks to the World Bank staff who
assisted in managing the project successfully.



- 20 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Project Title/                                            Year of
Loan Number                     Purpose                   Approval    Status
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
Education Project         Secondary Technical Educ.         1971    Closed, 1981
(Loan 748-TU)
Industrial Schools       Secondary Technical Educ.          1985       Ongoing
(Loan 2536-TU)
Non-Formal Voc. Trg.    Vocational Training                 1987       Ongoing
(Loan 2776-TU)
industrial Training II  Higher Technical Education          1988       ongoing
(Loan 2922-TU)            (Expansion of Ind. Trg. I)
National Education       General Primary & Secondary Ed. 1990          ongoing
(Loan 3192-TU)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-----------



- 21 -
Table 2. Proiect Timetable
Chronology                        Planned          Actual
--------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
Issues Paper:                                      09/14/82
Identification (Note #1)          10/18/82         11/21/82
Preparation (Note #2)             02/09/83         02/14/83
Appraisal  (Note #3)              05-06/83         05/23/83
Loan Negotiations                 12/15/83         02/14/84
Board Approval                                     03/27/84
Loan Signing                                       04/16/84
Loan Effectiveness                07/16/84         09/18/84
Project Completion                12/31/89         12/31/90
Loan Closing                      06/30/90         12/31/90
-----------------------------------------------------------__-------------
COMMENTS REGARDING ISSUES RAISED AT EACH STATE OF THE PROJECT CYCLE:
NOTE 1:  The identification mission raised the issue of selection of the
appropriate implementing agency. One PIU and one lead agency was to be chosen
(either YOK or SEGEM) and they were to work closely in the YOK TTCs and with
local industry. The issue was to be addressed durlng Preparation.
NOTE 2: The issue mentioned above regarding project management was resolved
as each agency was able arnd willing to execute their own components. It was
proposed that YOK would also depend on its own channels to develop links with
industry.  The Bank 'would encourage collaboration, and the agencies gave
assurances of their working closely during project execution.        The
preparation mission raised the issue that there appeared to be an absence in
YOK of a well-defined management system for the administration and development
of the vocational (meslek) education programs. YOK gave assurances that this
would be addressed. Technical assistance would be provided to assist YOK in
developing its management structure.
NOTE 3:  The pending legal status of SEGEM was raised at Appraisal as an
issue, as SEGEM's existence was approved only until 1984, with the completion
of a UNIDO projectl however, a law to define its permanent status was to be
enacted by end 1983, and the Ministry of Industry provided assurances that
the legislation was of priority.
_________________________________________________________________________



- 22 -
Table 3. Cumulative EstL-Ated and Actuil Disbureement.
(US$ 31illions)
Fiscal Year/     Appraisal                     Actual as % of
Quarter        Estimate          Actual         Estimate
------------------------------------------------------------__--
FY85
1                  0.30            0.09             30%
2                  0.60            0.12             20%
3                  1.00            0.14             14%
4                  1.40            2.04            146%
FY86
1                  2.25            2.21             98%
2                  3.10            2.49             80%
3                  4.00            2.83             71%
4                  4.90            3.47             71%
FY87
1                  6.75            4.09             61%
2                  8.60            4.63             54%
3                 11.05            5.39             49%
4                 13.50            5.98             44%
FY88
1                 15.75            6.97             44%
2                 18.00           10.01             56%
3                 20.30           11.01             54%
4                 22.60           17.73             78%
FY89
1                 25.05           27.78            111%
2                 27.50           29.58            108%
3                 29.35           31.99            109%
4                 31.20           33.01            106%
FY90
1                 33.05           33.63            102%
2                 34.90           33.63             96%
3                 35.85           33.80             94%
4                 36.80           33.89             92%
FY91
1                 36.80           35.44             96%
2                 36.80           36.09             98%
3                 36.80           36.37             99%
Date of Final Disbursements January 29, 1991
An unused Loan balance of US$ 432,584.15 was cancelled.
--------------------------------------------------------------__



- 23 -
Table 4. ProJect Implementation Indicators
-----Appraised     -    Actual
Unit       Quantity   PCR Estimate
Training Centers Equipped & Refurbished:
(a) YOK
Technician Training Centers                              centers           8          8
(b) SEGEM
Ankara Training Center                                   centers           I          I
Technical Assistance:
(a) YOK
Program Management                                         mm              69       123
Program Development                                        mm              12        39
Curriculum & Staff Development                            nmn             138       133
Instructor Training                                        mm              24         -
Subtotal                 243       295
(b) SEGEM
Organization & Development of
Nat. Industrial Trg. System                               mn              72       118
Program Development                                        mm              60        23
Industrial Training Facility                              mn               20        13
Pre-Investment studies                                    nmn              12         -
Subtotal                 164        154
Fellowships:
(a) YOK
Program Management                                        nmn              34        70
Curriculum & Staff Development                             mn            1404      1328
Instructor Training                                       nm              72          -
Subtotal                lSIO       1398
(b) SEGEM
Organization & Development of
Nat. Industrial Trg. System                               mm              24         6
Program Development                                        mm              75        24
Subtotal                  99        30
(c) SIS
Economic Statistics                                        mm             127        60
Research                                                   mm              30        55
Technical Operations                                       mm              60        92
Subtotal                 217       207
Enrollment in Project Specializations in TTCs (1989/90)
Control and Instrumentation                                 students        240        444
Communications                                              students         240       503
Industrial Electronics                                      students         240       570
Electrical Engineering                                      students         480       934
Mechanical Engineering                                      students         720       1453
Air Conditioning & Refrigeration                            students         240       452
Foundry Technology                                          students          60       114
Agricultural Engineering                                    students          90       167
Construction Technology                                     students         210       574
Computer Programning                                        students          90       225
Subtotal                2610       5436
Contracting Incremental Instructors:
Common Subjects                                               instructors    40          *
Electrical Specializations                                   instructors    56
Mechanical Specializations                                    instructors    56
Construction                                                  instructors    14
Computer Programming                                          Instructors      6
Subtotal                 172        161
* The breakdown of incremental instructors hired by universities for project TTCs was not available;
however, the total number of instructors in the ten project-supported programs in the eight TTCs is 161.
equivalent to a student:teacher ratio is 34:1, which is almost three times that which has been set as a
target for 1995, of 12:1.



- 24 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Finanginz
(USS Thousands)
Components  and                                         -------Appraised -----                 --------Actual--------
Expenditure Categories                               Total          Bank         GOT    Total    Bank    GOT
......................................................................................
A. Council for Higher Education (YOK)
........... ............................ 
Construction                                                600            -          600       5,148              -     5,148
Equipment/Materials/Furniture                           26,700   23,988   2,712   25,268   22,661  2,607
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                                           5,164    4,600               564    3,791    3,791
Expert Services                                       4,191    3,800               391    5,529    5,529                  -
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                 370           -           370    6,416                 -   6,416
Subtotal          3.025    322.388    4.637    46.152                 31.981  14.171
B. Industrial Trg. Dev. Center (SEGEM)
. ........... ................................ ............................... .
Equipment                                                1,066    1,000               66        2,330    2,118    212
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                                              320           320         -            610           241        369
Expert Services                                       2,600    2,300               300    1,242    1,234                    8
Incremental Recurrent Costs                              2,620             -    2,620    1,317                    -   1,317
Subtotal           6.606         3.620       .2986        5.499         3.593   1.906
C.  State Institute of Statistics (SIS)
.....  .  ........ .................. .... ......... ..........
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                                              222           22                       702                       -
D.  Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                                             9-                                     92         -
............. .................. .  ..  . .
Total Project Costs:    44,423    36,800  7,623   52,445    36,368 16,077
Ntote   Actual Government counterpart financing figures are based on Bank estimates using data collected by the Project Unit.  All
Technician Training Centers (TTCs) are part of universities. All their expenditures, both investment and recurrent are part of their
respective university's budget.
Construction: Actual expenditures far exceeded appraisal estlmates because the project as appraised envisaged only refurbishment
of facilUties. However, of the eight TTCs, five were constructed new, and the other three had new wings added to accommodate the
equSpmnt in more modern faciLities.
autym nt; The Bank financed 1002 of CIF/oxfactory costs.  The agencies paid a VAT tax of 10  for which there are no exemptions.
Technical Assistance: The Bank financed 1002 of technical assistance. YOCK did not incur additional expenses in the use of technical
assist nce  8        did provide local office support to the consultants as appraised. SI8 only incurred the direct cost of fellowships
as appraised.
incremental RecurrentC sots: Tho appraisal estimate of US$0.37 million for YOK included a much lower salary for 156 teachers over
five years, at TL 71.36 millon.  Salaries today are higher (US$163/year in 1985, vs. US$9,200/year for a TTC teacher in 1990).
although less teachers were hired than appraised -- 123 vs. 158, or 212 leas than expected. The PCR estimate is over six years.
and includes 123 teachers in 1990, and a lOS overhead for materials and maintenance as it did in the appraisal estimates.



- 25 -
Table 6. Comliance with Loan Conditions
Description of Covenant                                         Status of Implemantation
A.  LON ANiREDIENT SECTIONS:                                    * SEGEN successfully completed Its technical assistance program
Section 3.01(e).  In order to assist the Borrower to            through the ILO. SIS contracted out its fellowship programs to
carry out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower            the USConsus Bureau. which was also provided quality training.
shall cause SEGEN and SIS to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience. and terms of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Swetion 3.03. The Borrower shall cause SEGEM to initiate        * SEGEH performed well  in the implementation of its cost
a cost recovery system acceptable to the Bank so that the       recovery objectives. In 1989. SEGEH recovered 48% of its total
percentage of direct costs of SEGEM's programs recovered        cost (TL790 million out of TL1.6 billion).
by SEGEM shall:
(a) by O eDoWr 31. 1986. be not less than 20%; and (b)
for each year thereafter, be increased by a reasonable
percentage in consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.05(a). The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,        * SEGEM produced a large number of reports through the ILO
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, programs and        consultancy. which are available in files.  SIS completed its
reports of SEGEM and SIS relating to Parts B and C of the       fellowship program, and submitted a final report.
"reject. and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto.
Section 3.05(b).  The borrower shall: through SEGEM and         * SEGEM  and  SIS maintained  adequate  records  of project
SIS, maintain adequate records to record progress of            1mplementation  activities  and  provided  all  information
Parts 8 and C of the Project. including Its cost and the        requested.
benefits to be derived from it, and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.05(d).   Promptly after completion of the             * The three tmplementing agencies prepared their contributions
Project, and no later than 6 months after the Closing           to this PCR   (nee Part II of this Report).   However, the
Date or such later date as may be agreed between the            Governmsnt has not carried out an assessment of the impact of
Borrower and the Bank. the Borrower shall. with the             the project and its derived benefits.
assistance of YOK. SEGEH and SIS, prepare and furnish to
the Bank a completion report, Including costs and derived
benefits.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause SEGEM and SIS to         * Fellowship programs were successfully completed for SIS and
carry out a fellowship program under tenms of reference         SEGEM.
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.02(a-b).  The Borrower shall cause SEGEM and          * All agencies complied in submitting annual audits to the Bank.
SIS to maintain records on their operations and financial       although the scope of the audits was very limited. The Bank is
condition.  The Borrower cause SEGEM and SIS to have            now holding discussions with the Government to expand the scope
their accounts and financial  statements audited by             of audits and agree on private auditors for social sector
independent auditors and to furnish no later than 6             projects.
months after the end of each year certified copies.
------------------------...--...--------------...   -----------   .-------   -----...-.----.-----------    .-------   -.----------.-.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause SEGEM to maintain        * Th""ughout project implementation, SEGEN complied with this
its monitoring and evaluation systems for SEGEh's courses       c-    -t and maintained a detailed monitoring and evaluation
and for on-the-job training.                                            hich was used for teacher evaluation and feedback.
-.----------.----------   ------_-....------.-------_____--.-----.      -------------._-----__..---------__.______________--
B.  PROJECT AMREEEJIT SECTIONS:                                     uN  maintained  throughout  project  implementation,  with
P.A. Section 2.02.  In order to assist YOK In carrying          satisfactory performance, a contract with a consulting consortia
out Part A of the Project, YOK shall employ consultants         of TEKSIS/British Council/General Electric.   Concerns were
whose qualIfications, experience, and terms of employment       expressed by the Bank about possible conflict of interest
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, selected in accordance       between TEKSIS and TOK. Complaints were addressed by the Bank
with Bank Guidelines.                                           regarding their close relationship and the relationship between
TEKSIS and other university foundations.



- 26 -
P.A. Section 2.051a}.  YOK( shall furnish to the Bank.              ^Satisfactory compliance.
promptly   upon   their   preparation,   the   plans,
specifications.  contract  docunents,  and  work  and
procurement schsdules for Part A of the Project. and any
material modifications thereof.
P.A. Section 2.05(b).   YOK shall maintain records to               ^ Quality of progress reports was less than satisfactory due to
monitor progress of Part A of the Project. including Its            lack of staff in the project unit and, in particular, to the
cost and benefits to be derived from it, to Identify the            lack of focus in identifying and addressing project Issues and
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the              implementation problems.   YOK improved in the submission of
Loan, and furnish to the Bank at regular Intervals all              progress reports in later years.    Consultant's reports also
such information.                                                  were not issues-oriented and did not contain descriptive detail;
this was brought to their attention.
P.A. Section 2.05(d).  Prmomtly after completion of the            I YOK submitted its contribution to this PCR (see Part It).
Project, but not later than six months after the Closing           However. the Government has not carried out an independent
Date.  YOK shall assist the Borrower in the preparation            assessment of the impact of this component and its derived
of a completion rport.  including  its cost and the                benefits.
benefits derived and to be derived from it.
P.A. Section 2.07.  YOK shall establish not later than             * Advisory Boards are  functioning  in some  TTCs with  the
S epterb r 30. 1985, and maintain until completion of the          participation of local industry.  YOK had difficulty throughout
Project. an Advisory Board at  ach TTC. with terms of              the  project  in  preparing  guidelines  and  monitoring  the
reference and representation that shall be satisfactory            performance of such Boards.  Staff constraints and its distant
to the Bank.                                                       position from the day-to-day functioning of the TTC made it
difficult to comply with this requirement.
P.A. Section 2.08.  YOK shall refurbish each TTC prior             * All TTCs were refurbished or new ones constructed.  However,
to the initial arrival of equipment purchased with Loan            there were delays in the Installation of equipment because of
proceeds.  and  shall  ensure that  net floor area of              construction delays.  Monitoring of the quality and progress in
classrooms. workshops, and laboratories be available for           construction was weak because of shortage of staff in the ITU
training, and is of adequate size.                                 and  because  of  limited  authority  over  the  universities.
Assistance regarding appropriate furniture and classroom use and
design was also weak.
P.A. Section 4.02(a-b).   YOK shall maintain records               * All audit reports were submitted to the Bank.  Same comments
consistent with appropriate accounting practices, and              apply as In Section 4.02 above.
shall have its accounts and financial statements audited
each fiscal year by Independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. YOK shall furnish to the Bank no later than
6 months after the end of each fiscal year certified
copies of financial statements and audit reports in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Note: In addition to the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
a Project Agreement was signed with the Council of Higher
Education (YOK).



- 27 -
Table 7. Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUTS:
Stage of Project Cycle           Actual Staff Weeks
Preparation                             30.1
Appraisal                               53.5
Negotiations                             9.3
Supervision                             53.7
Completion                              10.0
TOTAL:         156.6
B. NISSIONS:
Number         Days
Project Cycle             Month/       of            in             Mission                 ---Performance Ratings---
Year      Persons        Field          Staffing                A   B   C   D   E   F   G
--         -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -  -   -    -   -    -    -  -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -
Identification            11/82         3            12         Economist
Technical Educator
Sc./Tech.Specialist
Division Chief
Preparation               02/83         3            19         Economist
Technical Educator
Sc./Tech.Specialist
Appraisal                 05/83         5             17         Economist
Technical Educator
Sc./Tech.Specialist
Facilities Planne:-
Industrial Trg. Spec.
Follow-up                 08/83         1             4         Sc./Tech.Specialist
Pre-Negotiations           10/83       1              3         Economist
Supervision               05/84         2            20         Technical Educator         1   1   1   1   1   -
General Educator
Progress Review            10/84        3             9         Economist
(Combined)                                                     Facilities Planner
Training Specialist
Supervision                12/84        3             9         Economist                  1   1   1   2   1   1   1
Architect
Technical Educator
Supervision                10/85        3            16         Economist                  1   1   1   2   1   1   1
Architect
Technical Educator
Supervision               04/86         2            30         Economist                  1   1   1   2   2   1   1
Training Planner
Supervision                11/86        2            12         Technical Educator         1   -   1   2   -   -   1
Procurement Spec.
Supervision               02/87         3            21         Tec/Voc Educator           1   -   1   2   -   -   I
Architect
Technical Educator
Supervision               01/88         2            17         Technical Educator         1   -   2   1   -   -   I
Operations Ast.
Supervision               06/88         1            34         Technical Educator         1   -   1   1   -   -   1
Supervision               02/89         2            18         Economist                  1   -   1   1   -   -   I
Tec/Voc Educator
Supervision               11/89         2            19         Task Manager               2   2   2   3   1   2   2
Trg/Empl Expert
Combined SPN               11/89        2             9         Systems Analyst
Operations Officer
Supervision               05/90         2             3         Task Manager               2   2   2   3   1   2   2
Tec/Voc Educator
Architect
Completion                 10/90        2             16        Task Manager
Tec/Voc Specialist
Performance Ratings (1.2.3):
1: Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2: Moderate Problems; 3: Major Problems
A: Status; B: Compliance with Loan Conditions; C: Project Finances; 0: Management Performance
E: Procurement Progress; F: Performance of Consultants; 6: Development Impact



