Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L.sJ. 2.3'q-1L)
Re14  No. P-3660-TU
REPORT AND
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INIERTIOlU  UUBAINK FOR R1ECONRClTON UID DEYEP
TO TE
mmCUTIVE DIRECTRS
ON A
PROPOSD LOAN
IN AN AM    EQUIVALENT TO US$36.8 MILIN
TO TE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
INDUSTRIL DTRAINING PROJECT
Narch 5, 1984
I Tdsi de   ba a reti    d m  i   be Wed by |ecPimt  emiiy I. hefoime Of
eIr emelal dudu It ceuteut my me oterse be disd witbout WoUd Bink a_ lmtun



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency
Unit      Jan. 1980 I/  Jan. 1981    Jan. 1982       Jaw. 1983     Jan. 1984
US Dollar - TL  70.00      IL  91.00    TL  139.60    TL  191.15    TL  309.20
IL 1      - US$  0.014     US$ 0.011   US$   0.007   US$   0.005   US$   0.003
1/ Since January 1980. the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 291.5/$1 (the
exchange rate at the time of negotiations) was used for Parts III and IV
of this report.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey              March 1 to February 28 (through 1981)
March 1 to December 31 (1982)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1983)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DYB                             State Investment Bank
MDE                             Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
MIT                             Ministry of Industry and Trade
SAL                             Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE                             State Economic Enterprise
SEGEM                           Industrial Training and Development Center
SIDO                            National Small Industry Organization
SIS                             State Institute of Statistics
SPO                             State Planning Organization
TKI                             Turkish Coal Enterprise
TSKB                            Industrial Development Bank of Turkey
TTC                             Technician Training Center
UNDP                            United Nations Development Program
UNIDO                           United Nations Industrial Devclopment
Organization
YobK                            Council for Higher Education



FOR omCIL USE ONLY
TURKY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:      Council for Higher Education (E K), Industrial Training
and Development Center (SEGEM), and State Institute of
Statistics (SIS)
Amount:             US$36.8 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:              Seventeen years including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. -
Project
Description:        The project is in support of the Government's industrial
development objectives which are linked to improving
industrial productivity as well as increasing the supply
and quality of skilled manpower. The project would
provide technical assistance, equipmnet, furniture and
minor refurbishment for eight Technician Training Centers
to assist Y5K in establishing a pilot program of
post-secondary pre-service industrial technician
training. Technical assistance and equipment would be
included to strengthen and expand SEGEM's in-service and
on-the-job industrial training programs at the
professional, technician and supervisory levels, as well
as assist in developing the framework for a national
industrial training system. Overseas fellowship training
would also be provided to SIS staff in order to improve
the quality and presentation of economic and social data.
This documnt hss a restmicd detbmon aod omy be usd by recipients only in the perormac of
theirola duteu Its contents my not otuerw  be discWsed wihout Wd Bank authoi



Proiect Benefits
and Risks:          The proposed project would contribute to the institutional
development of two key industrial training agencies, ToK
and SEGEM. Industrial productivity would be improved by
establishing a new program for pre-service technician
training as well as by upgrading the quality of and
expanding in-service industrial training. The project
would help meet the large demand for skilled technicians
by producing about 1,230 graduates annually from 1992.
Similarly, it would establish tne basis for a national
industrial training system and expand industrial
in-service training programs to reach anmially some 4,450
managerial and professional staff and about 2,000
technicians and supervisory staff by 1988. The major risk
would be that project implementation may not proceed on
schedule because of inadequate management and the
unfamiliarity of the beneficiaries with Bank procedures.
To minimize this risk, special training programs for
implementing staff have been arranged and a greater than
normal level of supervision is planned during the first
eighteen months of project implementation. Furthermore,
technical assistance packages have been designed to
minimize the administrative burden on implementing
agencies. The risk that an insufficient number of
technician instructors would be recruited is minimized by
the attractive salary scales of these positions which are
equivalent to university rates.
.



- iii -
US$ million
Estimated Proiect Costs:                          Local      Foreinn    Total
Council for Higher Education (YobK)
Technician Training Centers (TTCs)             2.26       17.02       19.28
Curriculum and Staff Development Program       0.50        5.39        5.89
TTC Nanagement System                          0.13        0.76       0.89
Future Project Development                     0.03        0.11       0.14
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    0.24         -         0.24
Sub-total                                  3.16       23.28      26.44
Industrial Training and Development
Center (SEGEH)
Industrial Training System                     0.13        1.49       1.62
Program Development and Expansion              0.11        0.75       0.86
Industrial Training Cousultancy Facility       0.04        0.19       u.23
Future Project Development                     0.02        0.11       0.13
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    1.91         -         1.91
Sub-total                                  2.21        2.54       4.75
State Institute of Statistics (SIS)              0.02        0.52       0.54
Total Base Cost                                  5.39       26.34      31.73
Physical Contingencies                           0.54        2.63       3.17
Price Contingencies                              1.70        7.73       9.43
Total Proiect Cost                               7.63       36.70      44.33
Front-end Fee                                     -          0.09       0.09
Total Financing Required                         7.63       36.79      44.42
US$ Million
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign     Total
IBRD                                              -         36.8       36.8
Government                                       7.6          -          7.6
Total                                            7.6        36.8       44.4



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:                           US$ Million
IBRD Fiscal Year                1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                          1.4      3.5     8.6      9.1      8.6     5.6
Cumulative                      1.4     4.9    13.5      22.6    31.2    36.8
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4755-TU, dated February 28, 1984.
Map:  No. 17358



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
TRE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$36.8 million (including the
capitalized front-end fee), to help finance the foreign exchange cost of an
Industrial Training Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Turkey in June 1982, and its report
entitled "Turkey: Country Economic Memorandum, Recent Economic Developments
and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4287-TU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1983. The report, in addition to analyzing Turkey's
medium-term prospects and overall creditworthiness, presents a synthesis of
earlier special economic reports on aspects of Turkey's adjustment process.
The report of the mission to review the financial system, entitled: "Turkey:
Special Economic Report - Policies for the Financial Sector" (No. 4459-TU),
was distributed in September 1983. An economic mission visited Turkey in
January 1984 to review the economic developments of 1983, the 1984 Annual
Program and selected structural adjustment issues. The findings of this
mission are reflected in this section.
3.       Turkey is about as large as France and Germany combined, with a
population of around 46 million and an estimated GNP per capita of $1540 in
1981. The density of population is low (78 per square kilometer of
agricultural land), and about 45 percent live in urban centers. Population
growth (2.2 percent per annum) is below the median for middle-income
countries. Despite rapid economic growth in the mid-1970s as well as
substantial emigration of workers (to Western Europe and more recently, to the
Middle East), the employment situation has deteriorated steadily with an
unemployment rate currently estimated at about 18 percent. There is, however,
little or no absolute poverty, although income distribution is skewed. There
are considerable regional differences in income and large rural-urban
disparities. Recent data indicate a probable worsening in income
distribution, especially of wage and salary earners, and a sharp real decline
in average earnings. Educational enrollments have expanded greatly but the
level of adult literacy remains relatively low.



-2-
Background
4.       During the 1970s Turkey did not make the necessary adjustments to the
shocks caused by the steep rise in oil prices, stagflation in the OECD
economies, and the consequent deterioration in the terms of external trade.
Until 1977 Turkey maintained high rates of economic growth by raising the
share of investment in GDP. This was financed initially by workers'
remittances and, following the quadrupling of oil prices, increasingly by
short-term borrowing. The rapid GNP growth came to an abrupt halt in 1977 as
the massive external debt burden led to a sharp deterioration in
creditworthiness, severe shortages of imports, and disruptions in industrial
production with a rise in unemployment. By the end of 1979, domestic
inflation had also become an issue of critical importance.
5.       The Turkish authorities' response to the crisis of the late 1970s was
a major shift in development strategy in 1980, moving towards outward
orientation and giving an increased role to market forces. Policies were
adopted to expand exports and increase workers' remittances which, together
with liberalization of imports, encouragement of foreign investment and
prudent external debt management, were aimed at alleviating the balance of
payments constraint and import shortages. On the domestic front, the
objectives were a reduction in the inflation rate, reform of the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs), a more efficient financial sector, improved
resource mobilization and better selection of investments, especially in the
public sector.
6.       The adjustment program, which has been supported by the Bank through
four structural adjustment loans so far, involves far-reaching changes in
attitudes, institutions, and the legal and policy framework, all of which take
time and are difficult to put in place. In view of the severity of the crisis
in 1979, and the urgent need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance
of payments as quickly as possible, the Government accepted the need for a
temporary sacrifice of growth and social objectives. Major structural changes
were made in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax system,
interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public investment
policy.
7.       The implementation of the program was carried out by a military
regime which assumed power in September 1980 following a period of sustained
unrest. Subsequently a Consultative Assembly was set up to draft a new
constitution, which was overwhelmingly endorsed in a nationwide referendum in
November 1982. New election and party laws were then promulgated, and
parliamentary elections completed in November 1983. A new Government assumed
office in December 1983.
The Structural Adiustment Process - 1980-83
8.       The Turkish economy has shown an impressive response to the
structural adjustment program and actual performance met or exceeded the
Government's own targets through 1982.  By contrast, results in 1983 proved to
be mixed, due in part to adverse economic developments on the external front,
slippages in the monetary program, and Government inertia in the face of
upcoming elections.



9.       Real GNP, after falling for two consecutive years, expanded by
4.2 percent in 1981 and 4.6 percent in 1982. Growth was mainly export-led,
with less than one-quarter of the growth in 1982 due to domestic demand.
Demand for consumption increased by 3 percent while fixed investment grew at a
modest 4.1 percent (both in real terms) in 1982, and depletion of inventories
helped to expand supply. Public investment grew at a slower rate than private
investment, thus reversing the trend of previous years. However, unemployment
continued to grow as employment opportunities did not increase fast enough to
absorb the expansion of the labor force. GNP growth slowed down in 1983 to
about 3.2 percent as against the target of 4.8 percent, due in large part to
the effect of adverse weather conditions on agricultural production.
Industrial value added is estimated to have registered a growth of 6.6 percent
as against the program target of 5.5 percent. Total fixed investment
increased by about 4.2 percent. As in the previous two years, private fixed
investment grew faster than public fixed investment (5.7 percent versus
3.2 percent).
10.      The Government has been remarkably successful in reducing the rate of
inflation through a combination of fiscal, monetary and income policies,
although the downward trend was reversed in 1983. After peaking at
107 percent in 1980, the annual average rate of increase in the wholesale
price index declined to 37,percent in 1981, and around 25 percent in 1982,
which was the program target. In 1983, it rose to 31.4 percent, as against
the program target of 20 percent. The rise was fueled by an expansion of
Central Bank credits to firms and commercial banks in difficulty during the
second half of 1983. The resulting liquidity expansion, in conjunction with a
lowering of nominal deposit interest rates, encouraged consumption at the
expense of savings (consumption increased by 4.2 percent).
II.      Commercial bank interest rates which were deregulated in July 1980
have increased substantially and are now markedly positive in real terms. As
a result, total bank deposits increased by 72 percent in 1980 over 1979, and
in 1981 this trend accelerated, with total deposits growing by 104 percent and
time deposits by 263 percent. Growth in deposits slowed somewhat in 1982 and
1983. The bankruptcy in late June 1982 of a major non-bank financial
institution shook depositor confidence and was followed by a shift of funds
into the larger banks. The Government averted an immediate crisis in the
banking sector and undertook actions to reform and strengthen the financial
sector as a whole. A new banking law was enacted in June 1983. It covered
many of the recommendations made by the Bank's report on the financial
sector 1/, including measures to reduce the undercapitlization of banks, place
limits on the real assets and investments of banks, link the establishment of
branches to the level of a bank's equity, reduce the interlocking between
banks and corporations, introduce a deposit insurance scheme and increase the
roLe of the Central Bank in the supervision of the banking sector. The
Government also took a major step towards reducing the cost of intermediation
and strengthening the inter-bank market by reducing the level of the financial
transactions tax from 15 to 3 percent in December 1983. Separately, the
Government has reduced the level of withholding tax applicable to interest
payments on deposits and bonds from 20 percent to 10 percent.
1/ "Turkey: Special Economic Report - Policies for the Financial Sector"
(No. 4459-TU), dated September 21, 1983.



12.      While posLtive real interest rates have provided an incentive to
save, they have also meant high borrowing costs. The current real interest
rate for non-preferential credits is about 30 percent, and there is
considerable disparity between the cost of preferential and non-preferential
credits. The high interest rates, together with the limited availability of
credit, have led to considerable liquidity problems for the private business
sector, particularly for businesses supplying the domestic market. In order
to reduce real interest rates, measures are also needed to lower the operating
costs of banks which are well above prevailing levels in comparable countrles,
in addition to a reduction in the inflation rate.
13.      In the fiscal area the most notable feature is a marked retrenchment
of the public sector. The budget deficit to GNP ratio, which stood at
4.6 percent in 1980, decreased to 1.2 percent in 1982, while SEE transfers as
a percentage of GNP showed a steady decline from 4.8 percent in 1980 to
2.8 percent in 1982. The public sector accounts continued to show improvement
in 1983. Although there was a shortfall in tax revenues, this was more than
offset by savings in expenditure, so that the ratio of budgetary deficit to
GNP further declined to about 0.5 percent. Transfers to SEEs as a percentage
of GNP also registered a decline to 2.6 percent in 1983. However, total
profLts of SEEs at TL 52 billion were somewhat lower than expected, implying a
slight increase in the ratio of the SEE financing requirement to GNP.
14.      On the external account, the flexible exchange rate policy under
which the Turkish lira has been adjusted daily since May 1981, contributed to
an unprecedented export growth in 1981 to $4.7 billion, or 63 percent higher
in dollar terms than the 1980 level. The increases were concentrated in
manufactured goods (a rise of nearly 120 percent). Product groups with the
largest increases included textiles, clothing, cement, iron and steel, and
non-electrical equipment. Exports in 1982 reached $5.75 billion, about
22 percent above 1981, despite a significant decline in export prices,
particularly for agricultural products. Manufactured exports were the major
source of expansion, as exporters continued to make inroads into markets in
the Middle East. In 1983 exports grew by an estimated 13.6 percent in volume
but their value remained unchanged compared with 1982 at $5.8 billion, because
of a sharp downward movement in export prices.
15.      A new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income earned
from construction contracts in the Middle East and North African countries
(with a gross value of around $12 billion in 1983). These activities are
expected to add to the normal flow of workers' remittances, which remained
strong throughout 1981 but declined in 1982 and 1983, reflecting the
appreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis European currencies as well as the
impact of the recession in Western Europe.
16.      The shortfall in earnings from exports and workers' remittances in
1983 was partially offset by a less-than-expected increase in the value of
imports, which reached $9.0 billion as compared to the programmed level of
$9.7 billion. The net result was a substantial increase in the current
account deficit to $1.8 billion in 1983 (3.5 percent of GNP) as against
$1.0 billion in 1982 (1.9 percent of GNP).



The New Economic Program
17.      The new Government announced its economic program in December 1983.
The major structural measures are in line with the objectives contained in the
1980 reform program. They are designed to push the structural adjustment
process firmly forward, and to reaffirm the Government's will to pursue
policies designed to open up the economy and reduce distortions. Export
growth and inflation control remain central to the new program. The measures
include:
(i)    a reorganization of the Government's administrative machinery,
including a reduction in the number of ministries and the
simplification of procedures;
(ii)    a substantial import liberalization which eliminates
approximately 78 percent of quantitative restrictions in
trade-weighted value terms, reduces significantly the tariffs on
a large number of items and imposes a levy on luxury goods
imports aimed at feeding a low cost housing fund;
(iii)    a reaffirmation of the need to export;
(iv)    a substantial liberalization of the foreign exchange regime
through simplification of procedures and freeing of restrictions;
(v)    an interest rate policy designed to provide a real rate of
return thereby encouraging savings, while at the same time
freeing the lending rates set by the commercial banks with the
exception of the rates on certain preferential credits;
(vi)    a major step towards reduction in the inordinately large spread
between deposit and lending rates by lowering the withholding
tax on interest paymentc from 20 percent to 10 percent and the
financial transactions tax from 15 percent to 3 percent; and
(vii)    a reaffirmation that the State Economic Enterprises will, with
some exceptions, be free to set their own prices according to
the requirements of the market.
Medium-term Prospects
18.      Preliminary projections prepared by the recent Bank Economic Mission
indicate the need for a continuation of the stabilization program until 1985,
followed by a growth strategy aiming at about 5.5 percent per annum GDP growth
consistent with a manageable balance of payments. 1/ Two basic assumptions on
the sustainability of export growth and on fiscal discipline have guided the
projections. The continued growth of exports is based on the view that the
conditions that made possible the 1981-82 upsurge are not temporary.
1/ The Fifth Five Year Development Plan (1984-88) was postponed by one year
until the new Government took office. According to the present schedule,
the new Fifth Five Year Plan, which will cover the period 1985-89, will be
ready in draft form by mid-1984.



- 6 -
Specifically, the projections assume continuation of a flexible exchange rate
policy, export incentives and import liberalization. They also assume that
the monetary and fiscal policy restraints will not be relaxed to a point that
will revive inflation, thus dLirupting the basic shift in development strategy.
19.        The projections of key economic variables for the period 1984-1990
are presented in Table 1. Merchandise exports are projected to continue to
grow at 9 percent in real terms into the late 1980s, with manufactured exports
projected to grow at 11 percent per annum. The scenario assumnes an
improvement in the pace of import liberalization in order to reduce the profit
bias against exports. Merchandise imports are projected to grow by
5 to 6 percent annually in real terms through 1984 and then to pick up to an
average of a little over 7 percent for the 1985-90 period in line with the
growth of demand.
Tbial 1: Turkey - Selected Econmaic indicators, 1981-90
19t1   1982    1983    1985   1990          Aver aw Annual riii Crouth late
EiaLice    A ct-u a T-wiC-u-1  rst-f--tiS   PToJec-to-    19111    19  S2-US  1935-90
GDP                    1980 TL b    4500    4723    .180    5334   6927    4.4      4.9       4.0       5.4
Consumption                      3755    3836      4050    4299   5487    1.9      3.0      4.3        5.0
Fixed Inveotmat                   B78     908       946    1083   1.41    4.2      3.0      5.4        5.9
Eaporte of CGods       Currant I a   4703    5746    SI30    8552  13936   79.0    22.4      4.3         9.0
Imports of Goods                  8933    3343      9000   12166  24932   10.2    -1.5       1.5        7.1
Trade Balance                   -4230   -3097    -3200   -3614  -5946
current Account salance  Currant S *  -2076   -1010    -1808   -1763  -2104
at io.
,Invetstent/CDP         2        24 1     22.1     22.4   22 3   22.3
SavingsIGDP              2       I.9    18.6      19.0    19.5   20.6
Export. of Goods/CGP    2         K.9    10.4       9.5    10.4   12.4
Current Account Deficit/CDP   Z  -3.5    -1.9      -3.5   -2.6   -1.7
Debt Service Ratio &/   2        13.3    23.7      24.3    24.6   24.1
PublLc Fixed Inveat..ntl  2      60.9    60.6      60.3   57.5   50.0
Tutal Fixed Inveatmnt
a/ Total Debt Service includLng Debt Relief, Exports of Goode snd slS plus Markerg.  eitt nae
Source: State Planning Organization and IBRD Projection.
20.        The current account balance, under these assumptions, would show a
deficit for 1984-85 in the g1.6-1.8 billion range. As higher rates of growth
are achieved, the trend would be reversed for the 1985-90 period, and Turkey's
current account deficit would increase again. The terminel year 1990 would
show a deficit of $2.1 billion (1.7 percent of GNP), as compared to a 1985
projected deficit of $1.8 billion (2.6 percent of GNP).
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 7 -
21.      The capital account would remain manageable throughout the projection
period, in line with the need to restra±n the growth of debt and maintain a
reasonable debt service ratio.  This would permit Turkey to meet the
amortization and interest payments arising from the $9.2 billion of debt
rescheduled between 1978-82 and maintain foreign exchange reserves equivalent
to two months imports.
22.      The projections indicate a GDP growth of 4 percent per annum for
1982-85 (stabilization period), and a higher figure of 5.4 percent per annum
for 1985-90 (growth period). The achievement of these growth rates will be
necessarily dependent on the growth of the productive sectors, namely
agriculture and manufacturing. Private investment is expected to grov at an
average annual rate of 7.1 percent during 1982-85 and 11 percent during
1985-90. As a corollary, the growth of public investment is expected to slow
down from a high of 7.8 percent per annum in real terms during 1980-82 to a
more moderate 3.3 percent during 1982-85 and eventually to 3.1 percent per
annum for 1985-90. This is consistent with the framework of achieving the
medium-term goal of an approximately equal balance in private and public fixed
investment by 1990.
23.      Turkey's medium-term prospects, which are highly dependent on export
sustainability, are linked partly to exogenous factors such as the world
economic outlook and movements in world prices. For example, if the annual
average export growth during 1985-90 reaches only 7 percent 1/ rather than the
assumed 9 percent. it will lead to a more difficult but manageable balance of
payments situation which may necessitate more external borrowing and may
result in a lower growth rate of imports (between 5-6 percent per annum) as
well as a lower growth path (GDP growth of 4.5 percent per annum) and a higher
debt service ratio (26-27 percent per annum). Rather than projecting a
stabilization period followed by a return to a normal growth path, this
scenario suggests that lower growth rates will continue throughout the
period. Under these conditions there would be very little chance of absorbing
the unemployed. However, given the Government's emphasis on export promotion,
there is presently good reason to support the more optimistic scenario
described in paras. 18-22.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1978, Turkey's debt reached $7.5 billion in short-term
debt and $6.8 billion in medium- and long-term debt. Service payment
obligations (mostly on short-term debt) were $5.1 billion (including arrears),
or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports in 1977. Between 1978
and 1980, Turkey rescheduled some $9.2 billion of outstanding obligations
through a series of rescheduling arrangements concluded with official and
commercial creditors. Approximately $6.0 billion of short-term debt,
including $2.6 billion in convertible Turkish lira deposits and bankers
credits and $1.2 billion of non-guaranteed suppliers credits, were
consolidated into medium-term loans or partially converted into Turkish lira
obligations.
11 An average of the 5 percent historical growth rate (1960-1979) achieved
prior to the adoption of an outward-oriented strategy and the 9 percent
growth rate projected in para. 19.



- 8 -
25.      Following the resolution of the debt crisis, inflows were mostly from
official sources - major creditors being the OECD countries, the World Bank
and the [HF. Of the total debt outstanding of $18 billion at end-1982,
87 percent constituted medium- and long-term debt. Based on the growth
scenario outlined earlier, debt outstanding and disbursed as a percent of GDP
is projected to fall from 34 percent in 1982 to 31 percent in 1985 and
26 percent in 1990. Short-term debt as a percentage of total debt outstanding
fell from 51 percent in 1978 to 13 percent in 1982.
26.      Debt service obligations are likely to be high over the coming
years. The debt service ratio increased to 23.7 percent in 1982 and about
24.3 percent in 1983 from about 14 percent in 1981 as a result of a large
repayment of previously rescheduled debt under the earlier OECD agreements.
The projections show a debt service ratio of 24.6 percent in 1985 and
Z4.1 percent in 1990. The debt burden should remain manageable provided
current policies are successfully impleuented, the export drive is sustained,
and Turkey continues to receive further support from international commercial
and official sources. There are some recent encouraging signs of Turkey's
ability to enter the commercial market for medium-term loans. In July 1983
the Central Bank of Turkey received a $200 million five-year syndicated loan
for balance of payments needs. Negotiations are under way to raise an
additional $350 million medium-term loan this year from commercial banks with
increased participation of European banks.
27.      Turkey continues to be in good standing with the IMF. A three-year
standby arrangement in an amount equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved
by the IMF's Board and became effective on June 18, 1980. The Government
purchased the full amount authorized under the arrangement.  The Government
also purchased SDR 56.25 million against the one-year standby arrangement for
SDR 225 million approved by the Fund in June 1983. Negotiations are nearly
completed on replacing the current arrangement by a new one-year standby
arangement to commence in April 1984.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
28.      Through September 30, 1983 the Bank and IDA have lent
$4,595.8 million 1/ to Turkey, through 75 projects. Agriculture accounts for
18 percent of funds lent. industry and DFCs for 29 percent, power for
16 percent, structural adjustment and program loans for 29 percent, and urban
development, transportation, educatiou and tourism for the remaining
8 percent. As of September 30, 1983, IFC conmitments to Turkey totalled about
$240 million, of which about $81 million were still held by IFC. Annex II
provides a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1983.
29.      The execution of Bank-financed projects in the public sector has been
slow, due in part to weak management, limited coordination amongst ministries,
staffing problems, and the serious external and domestic financial crises from
1977 to 1979. There has been notable improvement since September 1980.
Nevertheless, problems persist in many cases, reflecting difficulties in
staffing the public sector at current salaries, over-centralized bureaucratic
structures and continuing constraints on the availability of local funds. The
1/ Net of cancellations.



high interest rates for working capital combined with depressed domestic
demand and reluctance of investors to take the foreign exchange risk have
affected the implementation of private sector projects and led to slow
commitments under DFC lending. Disbursements for all sectors combined average
43 percent oE appraisal estimates (excluding structural adjustment loans), as
compared to 52 percent for Tunisia and 46 percent for Korocco.
30.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting Turkey's medium-term objectives
of restructuring the Turkish economy by placing more reliance on market forces
and adopting a more outward-oriented strategy. These objectives also include
±ncreasing domestic savings and reorienting a restrained public investment
program to reflect the Government's priorities of completing ongoing projects
faster and emphasizing quick-yielding new investments with positive balance of
payments impact. The main vehicle for the Bank's operational discussions with
the Government has been the structural adjustment lending (SAL) program. Four
SALs have so far been approved, the last on June 23, 1983. The success of the
SAL program has highlighted the need to develop sector policy lending vehicles
for continuing the policy dialogue at the sectoral level.
31.      Agriculture, industry, energy and transportation will continue to be
the key sectors for Bank lending with the accent being placed on improving the
management of projects. In agriculture, the emphasis will be on irrigation,
credit, and reform of the extension and research services. In industry
(including DFCs), it will be on the promotion of exports, employment, and
increasing operational efficiency. Energy projects under preparation will
focus on power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite resources, as
well as enhanced oil recovery and oil and gas exploration. Future projects
will emphasize the power, coal/lignite and oillgas sub-sectors. Lending for
the transport sector will focus on developing the infrastructure necessary
to facilitate exports and improve the efficiency of operations. Projects for
industrial training, urban development and public utilities may supplement
these efforts.
32.      The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue established with the
Government in recent years is expected to be pursued. The economic and sector
work undertaken recently includes studies of the agricultural and financial
sectors_ Topics likely to be covered in the future include a review of the
next five-year development plan, including a review of major public sector
projects, a study focussing on the impact of structural adjustment, a review
of transport investments and studies of the engineering and agro-industries.
33.      This is the first loan to Turkey to be presented to the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Other projects being processed include
agricultural extension and applied research, technical assistance to SEEs,
highway rehabilitation, and a proposed fifth SAL.
34.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was about
13 percent in 1982, and is expected to grow to about 15.4 percent by 1985; its
share of total debt service payments is projected to increase from about
9 percent in 1982 to about 14 percent in 1985.



- 10 -
35.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarms, textiles, pulp and paper, glass.
aluminum, cement, iron and steel products, heavy diesel engines, motor bicycle
engines, piston rings and tourism. It has also invested in the Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey (TSK3) and provided guarantees for overseas
contracting firms. In addition, IFC is currently providing technical
assistance to the Government with respect to the development of the capital
market and a regulatory framework for leasing.
PART III - IDUSTRIAL TRAINING
Role of Productivity in Turkey's New Development Strategy
36.      Turkey's economic strategy places greater reliance on market forces
as well as on the promotion of export-oriented industries, particularly in the
private sector. The strategy implies an emphasis on development of industries
where Turkey possesses comparative advantage. The Bank's report on
industrialization and trade strategy 1/ identified skill-intensive industries
as those in which Turkey should specialize. Yet productivity growth, and
hence the export potential of these industries, is affected by the lack of
adequate industrial training facilities as well as by poor management
techniques. Sectoral studies have iO_ntified the scarcity of skilled and
technical manpower, the poor quality of pre-service industrial trainiaig and
inadequate in-service industrial training programs as major factors
contributing to the low level of labor productivity in industry.
Manpower Constraints
37.      In comparison with its prospective competitors in the export market,
Turkey ranks very low in the proportion of engineers, technicians, foremen and
supervisors employed in the manufacturing sector. There is a scarcity of
skilled and technical manpower, particularly of technicians in export-oriented
industries which require high standards of quality control, modern production
techniques and specialized machinery. This scarcity is reflected by the wage
rate for technicians which in some instances is higher than that for graduate
engineers. Manpower demand projections over the next decade indicate that
Turkey will require an annual increment of about 12,000 technicians. The
virtual absence of industrial technician training underlines the need for a
major effort to strengthen industrial training programs. Even with the
conversion of eight post-secondary vocational training institutes into pilot
technician training centers under the proposed project and the future
expansion of technician training facilities planned by the Government, the
supply of trained technicians would only meet 17 percent of additional demand
over the next decade. Professional scientists and engineers will also be in
short supply, meeting only about 69 percent of the demand during the same
period. Labor emigration has furthermore compounded the shortage of skilled
manpower. In 1982 there were an estimated one million Turkish migrants
overseas, equivalent to about five percent of the doxestic workforce.
1/ "Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy" (No. 3641-TU), dated
February 18, 1982.



- 11 -
Institutional Framework for Industrial Training
38.      Although the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82) set targets
for increasing the supply of technically qualified manpower, and in particular
for increasing the number of technicians in industry, the resource
implications and methods for achieving these goals were not clearly
articulated. The current sources of training for semi-skilled and skilled
workers and technicians are: (i) secondary technical schools which train
semi-skilled and skilled workers; (ii) post-secondary vocational training
institutes; and (iii) in-service and in-plant training, particularly in
programs assisted by the Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM).
With the exception of entry level and on-the-job training provided by scme
vmajor industries, training opportunities for skilled workers and technicians
outside the formal education system are at present limited and receive only
minor support from the Government. Most skilled workers acquire their skills
in an informal manner from their colleagues.
39.      Secondary School Technical Training.  The responsibility for
pre-service training of semi-skilled and skilled workers rests almost entirely
with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MOE), which oversees about
1,000 secondary technical schools as well as trade and night schools for
primary school leavers and school dropouts. The secondary technical schools
provide a three-year program of academic education and technical training.
However, the educational system is heavily oriented towards formal academic
education as a preparation for university education. As a result, graduates
from the MOE technical schools often continue in higher education rather than
seek industrial employment. Both the Third and Fourth Five-Year Development
Plans contained provisions for major shifts of resources from general academic
education to technical education. In practice, however, inertia of the
established system coupled with parental pressure in favor of academic
education have compromised this policy. Enrollments in the secondary
technical streams as a proportion of total secondary enrollments remained
static at about 32 percent between 1978-79 and 1981-82.
40.      Post-Secondary Technician Training.  Programs for the training of
technicians at the post-secondary level have been neglected until recently,
and facilities for technician training are inadequate. In the past, the
pressure for university-level education led to the failure of various
initiatives to provide training at the technician level. As a result,
industrial technicians produced by the formal education system are at present
negligible in number. The Government and employers report that technicians
working in industry are either MOE secondary technical school graduates who
have acquired their skills on the job or are university graduates or dropouts
working at the technician level.
41.      In 1981, Parliament enacted a law which transferred the
responsibility for planning, organizing, administering and supervising all
post-secondary education (universities as well as vocational training
institutes), from the MOE to the newly created Council for Higher Education
(MnK). YoK is a semi-autonomous agency which reports directly to the Head of



- 12 -
State. YBK's functions also include administering government budgetary
allocations for higher education, training of teaching staff as well as the
appointment of senior staff and management at universities and other
institutes of higher education. YoK employs some 150 professional and
administrative staff at its headquarters in Ankara. There are presently 53
two-year post-secondary vocational training institutes under fYdK, with a
current enrollment of about 11,000 students taking courses in business and
secretarial studies, tourism, as well as technical subjects. Most of these
institutions suffer from inadequate premises and outdated curricula, havy
virtually no equipment and are short of well-trained instructors. To overcome
these problems and to meet the pressing need for trained technicians, YoK is
planning to introduce a new type of two-year post-secondary industrial
technician training program by converting eight of the 53 existing
post-secondary vocational training institutes under its control into
technician training centers. This pilot program would be the first step
towards developing pre-service industrial training facilities for
technicians. In spite of the Government's planned expansion of technician
training programs, the demand for technicians will continue to exceed the
available supply for some time (para. 37). Government and industry will,
therefore, need to consider a variety of other programs including on-the-job
training in order to meet the demand for skilled industrial manpower.
42.      In-Service Industrial Training.  Units which offer training for new
employees and courses to upgrade the skills of existing staff have been
established in several SEEs including the Turkish Coal Enterprise (TKI),
Sumerbank (textiles), Etibank (mining), large private corporations such as Koc
Holding A.S., as well as public and private sector development finance
corporations, for example, the State Investment Bank (DYB) and the Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB). In addition, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) has helped to establish successful in-plant
training programs for several industries including fertilizer, iron and steel,
petrochemicals, as well as pulp and paper. There are, however, three areas
where in-service industrial training needs to be strengthened. First, there
is no institutional framework for industrial training with the result that the
coverage and quality of industrial training programs are deficient. Secondly,
there are few financial incentives for employers to provide training, though
various measures are under consideration by the Government (para. 45).
Finally, there is an inadequate number of qualified instructors in industrial
training mainly attributed to the low level of remuneration and State control
cf wages and salaries. Under the recent SEE reform decree, however, employees
are to be governed by a new personnel regime which is expected to provide
greater flexibility to SEE managements in determining wages and salaries.
43.      To enhance Turkey's industrial training capacity, the Government
created the Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM) in 1978 with
assistance from UNIDO and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
SEGEN, a semi-autonomous agency under the administrative control of the
Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT), is managed by a Board which includes
representatives from the State Planning Organization (SPO), MIT, MOE,



- 13 -
as well as from employers' federations, universities, industrial research
institutes and SEEs. The Government has given assurances that SEGEM would
continue to exist during at least the life of the project with powers and
responsibilities sufficient to enable it to carry out the project (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02). In addition, the Government intends to enact
legislation to establish SEGEM as a permanent body and to strengthen its role
as an industrial training agency. SEGEM's responsibilities include the
provision of in-service training to the public and private sectors in
management, technical subjects and production techniques mainly at the
1:ofessional level. However, its programs are now being extended to include
technician and supervisory staff. SEGEM has also been charged with assisting
in the coordination and implementation of all training and manpower
development activities of the MIT and its related organizations.
44.      SEGEM training programs have grown rapidly in the past few years,
with participants rising from 400 in number in 1979 to 2,500 in 1982. In
1982, SEGEM offered 100 training programs for staff drawn from some 1,270
public and private enterprises using its own 45 professional staff and
consultants from industry and universities as well as foreign experts.
Three-fourths of all SEGEM's training courses are held outside its
headquarters in Ankara in facilities provided by local Chambers of Industry or
at plant sites. Expenditures by SEGEM for its industrial training programs
amounted to TL 225 million in 1982-83, or about one percent of the MIT's
budget. SECEM's budget has been derived from three sources: direct
government support through the MIT (about 82 percent of the total), payments
by participants in its training courses to cover the cost of training
materials as well as training manuals published by SEGEM (5 percent of the
total), and contributions in kind (estimated at 13 percent of SEGEM's budget)
from companies participating in its in-plant training programs. These
contributions are typically in the form of the provision of board and lodging
for SEGEM staff and course participants.  The UNDP has also provided grant
funds to support SEGEM's training activities. In the past, SEGEM has not
charged fees to cover the direct costs of its training programs. However, the
Government has agreed that SEGEM would introduce a cost recovery system
acceptable to the Bank so that the percentage of direct costs of SEGEM's
programs recovered by SEGEM by December 31, 1986 would not be less than
20 percent per annum, and for each year thereafter, would be increased by a
reasonable percentage in consultation with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03). This would be an important step in expanding the basis of
SEGEM's cooperation with the industrial sector, it would establish the
principle of cost recovery and, furthermore, would diminish the financial
burden on the Government of SEGEM's programs.
Government Policy
45.      The Government intends to increase the quantity and quality of
skilled industrial manpower by (i) expanding and improving the effectiveness
of existing industrial training programs; and (ii) strengthening the
institutional framework for industrial training. In 1983 the MOE introduced a
new program aimed at linking existing secondary school technical training to
the needs of industry. This included a cooperative program in which about 500
students in the final year of their schooling spend up to three months of
training in local firms. In addition to expanding SEGEM's in-service training



- 14 -
programs, the Government has supported other industrial training activities.
The National Small Industry Organization (SIDO), which organizes technical
extension services and common facilities for small- and medium-scale
enterprises, is a typical example and has evolved since 1968 with technical
assistance from UNDP and UNIDO. A long-term goal of government policy is to
develop the framework for a national industrial training system including
financial incentives for employers to offer training. In this regard, the SPO
is undertaking preliminary studies which would establish the legal and
financial basis for a training levy on all industrial employers.
The Bank's Role in Education and Industrial Training
46.      The Bank has so far provided one loan of $13.5 million for an
Education Project (Loan 748-TU) which was signed in 1971 and closed in 1981.
In addition, numerous training components have been included in other Bank
lending operations in the agriculture, industry, and power sectors. The First
Education Project supported secondary technical education through the
provision of equipment to 32 technical secondary schools and a technical
teacher training college, as well as to the Educational Science Equipment
Production Center and the rducation. Film, Radio and Television Center. The
project also included the construction of and equipment for twelve trade
schools, six adult training centers and a Management Training Institute. The
Project Completion Report of June 1981 and the Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 4018) dated June 28, 1982 stated that the educational impact of
the First Education Project on secondary technical schools was considerable,
with project equipment well used and maintained and with enrollments in these
schools close to the projected levels. However, there were severe delays in
the construction of new buildings. These reports highlighted a number of
problems such as political disruptions, poor design and construction of school
buildings and the lack of an effective project implementation unit. The
experience gained from the First Education Project has been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project; to ensure smoother project
implementation, YoK, SEGEN and the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) would
each be responsible for implementing its own project component. The proposed
project provides for minor renovation of existing buildings and excludes
financing for the construction of new physical facilities.
47.      The Bank has also supported industrial training indirectly through
loans to specific industrial sectors and to branches of industry which have
included project or sector-related training.  Bank lending operations in the
past few years having a component of this type include loans for the textile,
sugar, steel and copper industries, as well as for small- and medium-scale
industries.
48.      Bank lending for industrial training supports the Government's
economic policy which places emphasis on the development of export-oriented
industries and generating employmeat, particularly in the private sector.
Improved productivity through training is an important medium-term input to
this policy. The proposed project is the first Bank operation to focus
exclusively on industrial training. In view of Turkey's industrial
development objectives and the country's need for skilled industrial manpower,



- 15 -
the Bank expects to continue its support to ThK and SEGEM as well as other
industrial training agencies. Possible future projects might include a
research and development component to encourage appropriate technology
development in the industrial sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.      The proposed project was identified during a November/December 1982
mission and appraised in May/June 1983. Loan negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. from February 14 to 16, 1984 with a delegation from the
Republic of Turkey headed by Mr. Tunc Bilget, Chief Financial and Economic
Counselor of the Turkish Embassy in Washington, D. C., and including
representatives of YhK, SEGEM, SIS, the SPO and the Undersecretariat for the
Treasury and Foreign Trade. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -
Industrial Training Project" (No. 4755-TU) dated February 28, 1984 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A summary of the proposed
project is provided at the beginning of this report and Annex III contains
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
50.      The proposed project would help to raise the level of labor
productivity and, at the same time, increase the quantity and quality of
skilled industrial manpower. The Bank's involvement would, furthermore,
contribute to the institutional development of two key industrial training
agencies and establish for the first time post-secondary industrial technician
training. The main objectives are to:
i)  strengthen the institutional capacity of YdK and SEGEM in
administering industrial training programs;
(ii) reduce the shortage of skilled technicians in industry by
establishing a new program for post-secondary pre-service technician
training; and
(iii) expand and improve in-service, on-the-job industrial training
programs for professional, technician, and supervisory staff and
establish the institutional framework for a national industrial
training system.
The project also aims at improving the quality and presentation of economic
and social data compiled by the State Institute of Statistics (SIS).
Proiect Description
51.      The project consists of the following main components:
(i) the provision of equipment, furniture and minor refurbishment for
eight Technical Training Centers (TTCs) which would assist YUK in



- 16 -
establishing a pilot program for post-secondary pre-service
technician training. Technical assistance would be provided for
curriculum development and instructor training, to strengthen the TTC
management system and for studies to develop future techniciar
training programs;
(ii)  technical assistance to SEGEM for the design of a framework Eor a
national industrial training system, program development and
expansion, development of an industrial training consultancy
facility, as well as for studies to develop future technology
training programs. Equipment would be provided for a training
materials and audio-visual aids production center at SEGEM
headquarters in Ankara; and
(iii) overseas fellowship training for staff at SIS responsible for the
compilation and analysis of economic and social data.
These components are described below.
The Council for Higher Education (YoK)
52.      Technician Training Centers.  The project would support the
conversion of eight of the existing 53 post-secondary vocational training
institutes under YUK into TTCs. Selection of the proposed pilot centers has
been based upon support received from and proximity to local industry, as well
as the adequacy of the existing buildings for technician training programs.
The eight vocational training institutes to be converted into TTCs are located
in Antalya, Cankiri, Diizce, Iskenderun, Istanbul, Izmir, Kirikkale and Konya.
For administrative purposes, each of the TTCs is associated with a parent
university located nearby. About 2,600 training places would be created in
the new technician training programs, with some 1,230 technicians graduating
annually from 1992. Assurances have been obtained from YoK that the net floor
area of classrooms, workshops and laboratories available for training programs
would be of adequate size for each training place and that the refurbishment
of each TTC would be complete prior to the arrival of equipment (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.08).
53.      Curriculum and Staff Development.  The project would provide 138
man-months of expert services to assist in the development of curricula for a
new type of two-year post-secondary technician training program designed to
meet the needs of the Turkish manufacturing industry. Curriculum development
would take place at the TTCs located in Izmir and Istanbul. Strong links with
local industry have been developed as a result of the use of part-time
instructors from local industry as well as in-plant facilities made available
for training programs. To ensure the continuing relevance of the TTC program
to the needs of local industry, YUK would establish an Advisory Board at each
TTC by September 30, 1985, with terms of reference and representation
acceptable to the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.07). It is expected
that the Advisory Boards would be comprised of representatives of local
industry and Chambers of Industry, TTC directors and YhK staff.



- 17 -
54.      The eight TTC's would be staffed with 172 instructors; 132 would
teach specialist courses with the remaining instructors teaching core
subjects. About 156 new instructors required to staff the TTCs would be
recruited from university graduates in science and engineering. Instructor
training would consist of a nine month overseas fellowship program preceded by
an intensive foreign language course. The project would provide for a total
of 117 man-years of fellowship training for TTC instructors. As a longer-term
objective, an in-service staff development program would be established at the
TTC in Izmir and would focus on meeting additional staff requirements for the
future expansion of the TTC program. The project would include 24 man-months
of expert services for training of instructors and 72 man-months of overseas
fellowships for eight instructor trainers for this purpose.
55.      Strengthening of the TTC Management System.  YoK's responsibilities
include managing the 53 two-year post-secondary vocational training institutes
under its control. It has established a Technician Training Unit responsible
for development of the new technician training programs and administration of
the TTCs. To assist YoK to strengthen and further develop the TTC management
system, the project would provide 69 man-months of expert services for a
technical education planner, an equipment procurement and facilities planner,
an examination and accreditation expert as well as short-term assistance to
cover such areas as monitoring, evaluation and education management. The
project would also provide 34 man-months of short-term overseas fellowships
for 18 TTC and YBK staff at the managerial level. The Technician Training
Unit is headed by a Director General who would be assisted by five
administrative officers. The Director General of the Technician Training Unit
and two of the administrative officers have already been appointed.
Assurances have been obtained from Y5K that additional personnel required to
staff the Technician Training Unit would be recruited by September 30, 1984
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
56.      Future Project Development.  The eight TTCs supported by the proposed
project represent an initial step in the development of pre-service technician
training in Turkey. YhK is also planning to convert sixteen of the remaining
45 two-year post-secondary vocational training institutes under its control
into TTCs. In order to ensure the appropriate expansion of its technical
training facilities, the project would include twelve man-months of expert
services for engineering and feasibility studies for the development of future
technician training programs.
The Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM)
57.      Industrial Training System.  The project would help SEGEM to design
the framework for a national industrial training system. A team of industrial
training specialists would be appointed under the project to assist SEGEM to
identify manpower requirements in industry, define occupational standards,
devise an accreditation system and review possible alternatives for financing
the system. The team of experts would work closely with government agencies,
Chambers of Industry, SEEs and private sector employers and unions. To
accomplish this goal, the project would provide six man-years of expert
services as well as computer t. uipment and associated software. In addition,



- i8 -
24 man-months of overseas fellowship training would be provided for
counterpart training and study tours for SEGEM staff to learn about the
accreditation systems of other countries as well as their experience in
developing, managing and financing industrial training systems.
58.      In-Service Program Development and Expansion.  The project would
provide five man-years of expert services in such fields as general and
production management, training of trainers and English language training to
support an expansion in the scope and quality of SEGEM's industrial training
activities.  Approximately 75 man-months of overseas fellowship training for
counterpart staff would be provided for both existing and new industrial
training instructors. Additional staff would be recruited from industry,
commerce and universities.  The project would also include equipment for a
training materials and audio-visual aids production center. The provision of
in-service training would be increased to reach annually about 4,450 (or an
additional 1,950) managerial and professional staff by 1988. In addition, a
new program of in-service training for technicians, foremen and supervisors
would be established, reaching around 2,000 technician and supervisory staff
annually by 1988. SEGEM has developed a monitoring system to assess the
effectiveness of its in-service training programs and to identify future
industrial training requirements. This system is also used in determining
SEGEM's program objectives for the future. The Government has given its
assurances that SEGEM would maintain its existing monitoring structure (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.03.)
59.      Industrial Training Consultancy Facility.  To complement SEGEM's
regular training and short-term industrial consultancy programs, the project
would include 20 man-months of expert services to enable SEGEM to respond
quickly to ad hoc requests from export-oriented industries for specialized
in-plant training and short-term consultancy services in advanced production
and manufacturing techniques.
60.      Future Project Development.  To assist the Government in identifying
further means to improve productivity, the project would finance twelve
man-months of expert services for pre-investment and feasibility studies in
industrial training and productivity development.
The State Institute of Stat-stics (SIS)
61.      The State Institute of Statistics, which was created in 1962, is
responsible for the compilation of all statistical information in Turkey used
by the Government in policy formulation as well as by the SPO in the analysis
and prescription of policy. The SIS maintains basic statistical standards in
Turkey and coordinates the statistical work undertaken by government
agencies. SIS employs some three hundred professional staff and is headed by
a president who reports directly to the Prime Minister. In order to improve
economic and social data gathering methodologies as well as the quality and
presentation of such data, the project would provide 217 man-months of
fellowship training for SIS staff.



- 19 -
Technical Assistance
62.      The project would provide for a total of about 34 man-years of long-
and short-term expert services and 152 man-years of overseas fellowship
training to YoK, SEGEM and SIS. To simplify management of the technical
assistance component, implementing agencies would obtain specialist services
and overseas fellowships as comprehensive technical assistance packages.
These packages have been designed to minimize the administrative burden on
implementing agencies by ensuring that consultant firms assume this
responsibility.  Technical assistance contracts would be reviewed by the Bank
and obtained in accordance with standard Bank guidelines. Assurances have
been given that YoK, SEGEM and SIS would carry out overseas fellows',ip
training programs according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 and draft Project Agreement, Section
2.10).
Project Management and Implementation
63.      Project implementation would be carried out by the three agencies
involved in the project: the Council for Higher Education (YdK), the
Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM) and the State Institute for
Statistics (SIS). A Project Implementation Unit has been established within
YbK's Technician Training Unit and is headed by the Director General of the
Unit who reports directly to the President of YoK. SEGEM and SIS have fully
developed management structures capable of implementing their own components
of the proposed project with existing staff.
Project Costs and Financing
64.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $44.3 million.
The proposed loan of $36.8 million would finance the estimated foreign
exchange component plus the capitalized front-end fee ($0.09 million
equivalent), or 83 percent of total project costs. The Government would
finance the balance of project costs. Equipment and goods imported for use by
government ministries are exempt from duties. A physical contingency
allowance of 10 percent ($3.2 million) has been added to the cost of all
project items. Price contingencies are estimated at $9.4 million or
27 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies
are $12.6 million or about 40 percent of total base costs. Technical
assistance costs have been estimated at an average of $11,900 per man-month
for specialist services and $2,500 per man-month for overseas fellowship
training; the former includes salaries, housing, relocation and international
travel costs as well as the costs of local services such as local travel,
subsistence, recruitment and overhead.
65.      The annual incremental recurrent costs generated by the eight TTCs
and the curriculum and staff development program would increase the estimated
1989 annual budget for the post-secondary vocational and technician program by
one percent; YoK's estimated annual budget in 1989 would rise by less than 0.1
percent. When fully operational in 1988, the annual incremental recurrent
costs arising from SEGEM's program would increase its share of the MIT's
budget by about one percent. The proportion of these incremental costs to be



- 20 -
borne by the Government would be diminished by twelve percent because of
SEGEM's cost-recovery scheme (para. 46). The anticipated increment to the SIS
budget following implementation of the proposed project is negligible.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.      Procurement would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding, except:
(a)   refurbishment of existing buildings including furniture
(totalling about US$0.6 million), which would not be financed by
the Bank, woulld be carried out under local contracts and by force
account in accordance with local procedures;
(b)   equipment bid packages estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent and aggregating to a maximum of US$4.0 million, which
are not expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the
variety of the contents of each contract, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procurement procedures to be acceptable to the Bank;
(c)   sundry items not exceeding US$25,000 in each contract and
aggregating to a maximum of US$2.0 million equivalent, would be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in
accordance with local procurement procedures to be acceptable to
the Bank; and
(d)   books and training materials (such as films, slides and charts),
not exceeding $450,000 in the aggregate, would be purchased in
accordance with local procurement procedures to be acceptable to
the Bank.
Technical assistance would be obtained in accordance with standard Bank
guidelines.
67.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  100 percent of foreign
expenditures and local expenditures ex-factory for equipment and materials
(excluding furniture); 65 percent of other local expenditures for
off-the-shelf equipment and educational materials (excluding furniture);
100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of foreign consultant services and
overseas fellowships; and 80 percent of the total cost of local consultants.
The proposed loan includes retroactive financing of up to $0.2 million to
cover costs incurred after June 30, 1983 for office equipment and specialist
services necessary for expeditious start-up of the project. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
Accounting and Audit
68.      YoK, SEGEM and SIS would each maintain separate accounts of
expenditure under the project. These agencies would prepare a detailed
statement of expenditures on a quarterly basis, in an agreed format, to be
submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each quarter. An annual



- 21 -
audit would be carried out by the Auditor General's Office in accordance with
the World Bank 1981 Guidelines Report and submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year for Yol, SEGEM and SIS (draft Loan and
Project Agreements, Section 4.02).
Benefits and Risks
69.      The proposed project would assist in the expansion and qualitative
improvement of industrial training as well as contribute to the institutional
development of two key agencies in this field. Industrial productivity would
be improved through the establishment of pre-service post-secondary technician
training programs as well as by the upgrading and extension of in-service
industrial training at professional, technician and supervisory levels. The
project would, furthermore, help to develop the framework for a national
iadustrial training system. The SIS component would assist in improving the
availability of economic and social data.
70.      This project would be the first Bank lending operation for Y5K, SEGEM
and SIS. The main risk would be that project implementation may not proceed
on schedule because of inadequate management and the unfamiliarity of these
agencies with Bank procedures.  To minimize this risk, special training
programs for staff implementing the project have been arranged and a greater
than normal level of supervision is planned during the first eighteen months
of project implementation. Furthermore, to ensure timely recruitment of
specialists and placement of fellowship trainees, technical assistance
packages have been designed to minimize the administrative burden on the
implementing agencies. There is also a risk that it would not be possible to
recruit a sufficient number of technician instructors. To minimize this risk,
the Government is paying attractive salaries to technician instructors at
university rates. For administrative purposes, each TTC is associated with a
university located nearby. There is a risk that this ar.rangement could
influence the development of appropriate industrial technician training
programs in the direction of academic education. To reduce this risk, Y5K
would determine courses and curricula for post-secondary technician training
and provide separate budgetary allocations for TTCs and universities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between Yiuksek Ogretim Kurulu (YTK) and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III. Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of special interest are listed in Annex-III of this
report. There are no special conditions of loan effectiveness.
72.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 5, 1984
Washington, D. C.



- 23                                                        Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
m                 --E sA             DEs34
-UFJW                 - socIAL IDicAT    DAMA SURET
TUJRKEY                            SEENNC  C005 VESUEDAVRsS)I
"UST                    (MOST NICErT ESTIMATE) lb
t9fidl  1270a  :ECEMT,         NImuB  3015i8D0m!AL
AA (M3SAID SQ. N)
TOTAL                            730.6      730.6       78306
AC21CULTURAL                     372.3      331.3      331.3
GIW "a CAPT  CUSS)                  300.0      550.0     1540.0            2453.6                 11112.7
CILOUGRDS OF MAUL EQUIVALERT)    256.0      512.0      779.o            1560.8                  7500.6
POPEATU  AM VITAL SICSU
POP*LATION.HID-IEAR CINOSAN S)  Z7509.0    35321.0    45529.0
URBAN POPLATION CZ OF TOTrAL)     29.7       38.4       46.7              47.8                    78.Z
POPULATIo  PRlIECEI0NS
YOPUYXW5 IN TE  ZOO   (MILL)                          6.33
IL                  STAITORY POPULATO  (KIL)                              119.4
REAL, SrAXIONART POP. 353210                          11
POPuLATIO  DNsIT
PEIE SQ. 14t.                   35.Z       45.2       56.9              12.0                    039.0
PER SQ.  . AGRI. LAN            73.9       92.5       116.4            157.2                   514.Z
POPuLATOS ACE SRaUICrUE C.)
0-14 B5                        41.2       41.0       38.6              31.9                    2Z.4
15  YIRS                        55.2       54.3       57.0              60.9                    66.0
65 ANID AMBVE                    3.5        4.7        4.4               7.2                    U.6
POPULATION GROWa RAXE (C)
TOTAL                            2.8        z.5        2.3               1.6                     0.$
URBAN                            6.1        5.1        4.1               3.4                     1.4
CWDE B1    RATE CPER IROU)        43.1       37.9       33.Z              25.0                    13.8
CR3E DOA  RATE CPL  lN01S)       15.8       12.2        9.2               9.1                     S.9
CIOIS RERDCTIO  RAZE               3.1        2J7        2.2               1.7                     0.9
FAKULT. PLAIUNXU
ACCEPTORS. ANMUAL (110S)          G. 6.6              66.Ife
CSERS CZ OF HARRIED    E         5.3/d      3.0       38.07;
INDEE  OF F     WMD- PROD CAPTA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0      100.0      IILO0             1064                    12.4
EiR CAPITL SUPYIX OF
CALORIES CZ OF RaZIBlll )      115.0      111.0       122.0              9.6                    14.4
PROEINS (CRAMS PM OAY)          85.0       80.0        6.0              92.3                   9".0
OF 'zol ANIMAL AD PULSE        25.0       23.0       25.0ff            34.6                    61.4
CMUM (AGO 1-4) ORTA  RAXE         50.0       31.2       19.8              10.4                     0.4
LIFE ElPErT. AT B1IM1 (EARS)      50.5       56.6       62.4              67.2                    74.9
-IFANr 1. RATE (R M0M)           189.5      147.5      119.2              71.4                    10.7
ACCESS 1r SAFE MAXER C(20P)
TOML                                       52.0        75.0f&
URBAN                             ..       51.0       70.07i              *-*-
RURAL                             ..       53.0        W.0..
ACCSS     EXCRELA DlSPOSAL
(C OF POPLATION)
TO_AL                             ''         '     
MURAN                                        ,,       ZO.O-
AURAL                             ..         ..
POPULATIt PER PrSLCAas          2W00.0     2230.0     1630.0            19.8                     553.6
PoP. PM NURSING PERSON         16310.01b   1380.0     1130.0             762.5                   12.9
POP. PM aOSrPIAL eD
TOTAL                          600.0      490.0       5O0.0ff          334.0                   119.3
URBAN                          340.01b    310.0       300.07T          216.0                   143.2
RURAL                         51oo.07E   5910.0 o    6240.O.
ADMISSILOS PER HOSPrTAL NED         ..       20.2       2Z.31f            20.0                    17.7
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSNIIDLD
TOTAL                            5.7/1      5.9
URBA                              ._.                    ,
RURAL..                                      ..
AVEAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                            2.41        2.2
URBAN                            2.07L      1.9
RURAL                           z2.771       .
ACCESS TD ELEC. CZ OF DWELINGS)
TOTAL                           29.0       4L.1       57.0
URBAN                             ..       78.2
URAL                             2.0       18.O0
REST COPY AVAILABLE



-24 -                                                   Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
T A 3 L E 3A
GREECE                - SOC5AL 0   UICATSS DATA SiEET
CREECC                             RZFEVEC CUnPS cTIGmn AVEWACES) la
InST                     OUST RmCET ESTDtAIK) /b
RaEET            IDDL E 1ticl           m  clitlS
19wa       Lgl9,, ;-ESTIhAT¢           EOCwAnT wuMaOTzS
ADJUSTED ENROJIMEM RATIOS
PRIMaRY:  TOTAL                1.020       107.0      103.0ff           102.2                   101.5
YALE                 104.0       108.0      104.07F           107.2                   103.3
FUALE                101.0       tOLO       103.0oT            97.9                   103.3
SECosDAR: TOTAL                  37.0       63.0       8t.0/f            56.5                    89.2
PULE                   ".0        70.0       B6.07T            63.4                    S4.5
FEMALE                30.0        55.0       74.071            48.9                    86.0
VOCATIONAL aZ OF SECOND')          16.5       18.9       17.6ff            22.4                    18.3
PUFSL-TEAC   RATIO
PRIL4AB                          40.0       31.0       26.0ff            24.7                    20.2
SECONDAR                         26.0         ..       27.01j            22.1                    14.4
ADLT LTtERACY RATE Ct)            80.4        85.4         ,,              69.7                    9E.9
PASSEam  CARSITWOUSAD POP          5.2        25.8       79.6ff            52.9                   356.5
RADO RECEIVERSfTFOUSAID POP       84.9      1lZ.6       344.8             165.5                  1085.4
TV  ZCESrJTSrNOXSAND POP            .-        19.3      156.3             124.2                   449.5
NUIPAPEL (-DALT GENERAL
DFIEREST-) CIRCDLATD0
Ent aD  POPLATICo                120.1       80.'      107LOt             96.3                   331.3
CnD2A  AL ATIEMDANCE/CAPTA         7.3        15.4        4.2Z7             2.9                     3.5
TarAL LABOR FlOC (TiERS)         3746.0     3750.0     4073.30
FUlRLE (Prwcnr)                  31.1       32.4       33.0              34.5                    36.1
AGCRILTUR  PERCENT)              55.8       46.0       36.6              40.7                     6.2
l]DDUS    (PERCENt)              19.S       Z4.0       28E0              23.4                    37.8
PAXTICIPA.IOS RATE (CENT)
To.AL                            45.0       42.6       42.0              42.0                    45.5
M.LE                             63.5       59.1       57.3              55.2                    59.0
rEA.LE                           27.4       27.0       27.2              29_1                    32.5
ECONG(IC DEPENDEICT RATIO          0.8         0.8        0.8               0_9                     0.8
Umm  DIsSJTIDUl
PERCENr OF PRIVATE 1ECUM
ZEEVED IT
HTCHEST 8 OF H0USEHODS           18-7/1       --
RI-lES  2ZO OF BUSEzOxnS         44.77?       _          --                -.                    43.1
LOEWST 20: OF HOUSEHOLDS          6.37T                                                           5.5
LaMEST 40 OF a ousEm.DS          17.47        ..          .                ..                    16.5
PErrTAIICCT CROW
ESTATED  SATSU5E POVEWIY Iuz
LECEL CUS PER CAPITA)
UM                                 ..         ..      435
ESTn fTED RELATIVE movRRn Min
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
RUMEI                             ..          ..      936.01d           *09.0
ESTIMATEC POP. BEL  ABSOLUTE
POTVENT ItIME LEVF. C!)
CRBUS.                                                 ..               ..
MOT AVAIALE
NOA APMLICAKE
N OTES
fi  The group awerqes for each aIlicator are populaou-uelSbted arirluetc mean. Cerqe of catrIe. amon the
indicator, depend. on avilablilty of dats and lanot uniforc.
lb Unlesa otherIs e noted. -Data for 1960' refer to any year betmen 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- betuwen 1969 and
1971; and data for *Noa Recent utlat." betwen 1979 ad 1981.
/c Due to enigrati-c population growth rate is lasr than rate of natrsl increase; Id 1977; /a 1962; /f 1978;
fx 1976; lh 1974; fi 1957-58. urban only; f  1975.
Mhy 1983
BEST CUWt AWidLn-ii I



- 25 -                                                                                 Annex I
Page 3 of S
artorrim" or stOI PUOWSUt
adet..  Lecssen the daa.rfrte fete asit centllp Issd the s-dc .etttst.tt   .5  alitbl. it eboelt st- h. meted act th.,cr                       heIsestslt
e......hl. basse  ttm  lack or sisald tttsiltess   --             Wte . test by dtffses esrtrte  La eel!scttsg the Let.  MIt data am. sesthctooo5 secL Wlt
The mtscesac gstpov se  (1.2 etc -    retry atn or the ' ejett esteer ned ) * Iood.tr  grap .cO  s-at hIgh., ssrego Las  tes  tee e ter  seep or the
etis-  -eete  (C-ct tee -Klah locee  OttI -aete            W  Sci -5ettllt Ieee Itt eb   itt Od M-tUlc ta- S. C             boses or etesger dddtinselcr
=ee1a dt  e  thee  s-dlCate. 5Ls  the  sesae  at tesies   -w  t.  ledteesst dec5. -o she dootsbiLty cf data -S L. -isIf.-e. sette    at he
aasstaiLnitie  ac-eage  era   iSItasee vs-tsr  ls   eege  -s seLy seofsl Is teece-le  the en..- e  -  tedtcsti at else stee  the sentr  s
sEa i--.s   KA.es.                                                                      %i~st!at1tfrbet                tate  dLtt.dsd    -..e- of pr.-.t.teg
slIp s.d 19W daIs.                                                      estlsctee ret Settee Verses - lepelaLssdbitb                tpses
1970  "O N 9  dat.Peteeest  eta  st-iis.st. setW brtt - leelst t-eed,
t  door tooloIddIly   pddoLosee, 55 mSt aal y`tf lr tptesisa   etrod                                     he"epteeL bdoded
10*,  97.- ("S 1961 Eats                                                                hs .5t-  Innst_! Pbs     Pt Pettle   !ehtshest  erteloddis   WrseI.- estda
em50Y fts9a-ls  c-s Cast? - Seslaereseesete   tses                                           esdls-  ees. ocrpe- Iaoce.-L,s i-Et hr a pe.Tcte4   ft by .  Sa
ytesrseertee   .- ltgrt. p.t-Lnss. eetasa  gas Oe tede-. seels,                      tee.VrsCeln .. t.) sdhIrt strff-              eac   eeeateO
-         as aeathere.i elsctitttsy) 15 tt~LLsees   s  cqcislst porespes:PrOcdc  1115  isepS et-r  esirl  se-itt1tss.  ALI tt&aelttoa  vpoea
satj-.  toie. se- pleals d-tetd.  Le-t.Lod. eft tede-. U
ichs poetets. ttores .1  eed U- eel etche  fteslpeeese
aafesen leiicea    -  eee. sens se  asse  eseeatshtlitr or Sat.___
oog stre          11  21.O    01Ses                                                       e.   t  at sesecc czietees  o  besoes- 14            l  cee        se
trsslstt.  Pte5etSs                                                                        -    "L ode.e1  ftsa     ie            sLdet  SetaeIecgsae,
Pceto5t  i -Si CtO- Cs15 VPasaiS    ijtrss     basedot                                        tt  aStas   A hees~tnrS  151st sey lIt   sot he teeldad ft
ca-s  portnte  tyaeO  -  slteiesst "                --ertterte cteht  sre-teta  psepotee
r-se  tIsstetee poiisr  fSt -ersy nic  eWteole  of ters                                cteeca   a I      e    rtte   - e.sa..t.O    ela               5a
le.-t.  -aaa.    Wt. ata.y sc bIt-h L--esete  &t:htti'  pot                            erPre    pettet    -5 sit  O    -Ln sesepld ea 1etas
teptee been le-.. OSE-- 0 ree.tle     -ptay seeh:ttae  at `7-.                        45e.lts. re.c-eevey   beL&.g  Snode seoP-psns  tenesreeoS
test e    ose I  Leb. t fereLtte  se-sfs  en tat   Isel OS fle  retz?.Zrs  efoetesIere  st dtelttseei - lessl sebs. O   tetl
elne_le  P-etseecc   aE~ teaer  ts the  -rews. e  ar thsesscasss L d-eitet. alas elerL . 3ttys Aces qeetSs  sa petsele
Stateseo-'oetelstto  - Ia 5 eesttoSya esjssotlas  Lha. - lese
soersa  Sted ets i estt asthe  atesrace endale.the0.                 ___
serarc   ess.  esere   ths e sttcS styster Ss-Ltt   seeaec. ss,se   es
IstlIs  in the -cpi-esf  s.-t -t test si..sfstnees. `dLIs                               ttsoes      ael  aeO   el  - Ce-e toa..elo  Sis!
...eh 4esteis  sr s-     "Ieplc   ttsetr seatly.  lb2' edtse-.r                          se    eta   I ndoo se the  s.-sny Ilst -  n-tdosdae sd f or   tweere
pereteet  si       ectases   s sh  he:.-  era  P-I-Ied etr-es-                           petest scba.ss  .Popactsi: ereetty tei IL.tid-s agod 9-t
f.el!ley eatsmu~   .d     -    -W  as tsfadsea le.                trtoit  etch s f-seo ederta-e  eserls  ar sness 1-00  fest,
tesn.stlsse   Idslet 3p    .  I-L.5s  -  bp    es't:ose                                    esI-  Psre o   5.5l a-t- sbeelee  stftC          --t schsiss.~
tot e.es, -  A-yeetpspetLtses Per' sqi  mIt    Er Lifu heetoes) etprt. esete &                      L.satse.      c  ist.r ereLsise Iteerastee` lEt
1     l1i: is. 1975. OS 5555 data,                                                 "Perls se-il, .5 LI en it .'  c  feecsesect
set -. he. scrtestetea~L-lase - CosPetd as ee   ts   cietss   Ua?gsrly  ciae.
pcsstnttte: 11*0. :010. OS 1991 late.                                Pestl~~~,d-  W-tete  rol .... etesce  OS sessenr- r -alec.dee eree   I
year pepeIstlee Sst IBisSO. lSeZ9-t.  OS 170-It.                                   ...esn-    nane
Pesaisret.St (psret)-  aso - seAst gesth   s.. o  seh                           Mete tiests roe. reesst u.rae. sales (aIr as fta" OS ate)-
pSesaeteas en tm-eU. 5   . -f,O  l-T1~q4.                                          a       rL eesnor eteas arIepeese   ae  13 ye.r  -Sset
eat ptite; !SO. i510. OS 2ME data-                                                   COStteVfl5
asr seSeat rmeee  PIs 'Lodt tL-   strie re es-s sgs Lsratr                       Iatsd SeSIse  rr- eseend fALLcss    Ot   P   5eeiSie taste
fetle  rie  sstti etsss   scss   Ssstt2. I.-D). OS                              t-sedoese  te ge-ee  P-etI  er s-cs or PM.ea".e L         s-;  e  n
oS  iet-estte   ets A    e=  asie e_  _   ete.T-Ceely pL-.esge ta   aSlts..d lrsle
Cl esctel nss. Isa-seeUse-L._.      --         p -   ..c O .                             -Ls eCsr-tsdc - an   ss...  -se-ais  3- ite   e. aerS.9
ste ar s-sr:                                                                           trelette  SrLft0 rte.  sreree--aascaesetdeite-  a ~b-sit
75,4' ar'sodtraseei.  seeaoct  iStSsI-..s.-  7%-sas  .19M.  ~eto.  LelstsSssn5lt.e.rtsis   ssetoo.C  .ecte
15    S  Se  esee  a   at,Casttece. pts  Ces rg                                    lot    lsttcesteec  ait   t  5t-  cnte  C.55tS
stnlista  atSot  0t         dbeaStse   eri.e14                                 itt   atdcs   h   et -,I-         d1*  OSInis t deset  e-ess  O
dst.?.-      l.Ote  See 1 sastsd5.  stgtacnt  pessotes c eti steer  Ito                  so;.  esteor-te.     ..V-L1z-L  -
-es a   etss  sstao  reatr-4e  tnca  lsssl-.S. 297f0.- nsa 19r05t.1L~   od-
Ss.rat esoltetsa St e.t 1 .5 eet  setetoi   to sert  c- etr.pt                     ses altaslss  etaI esl-is  heasles.tetat,  t.sere
5cc.  tatlslc ceeitecinser.. desett p4sctse. spre  eerrsats   f  I                                       -e.  - ie-e  Is eariSt  -ceit  are set     '%
serses.  'S e-ussIt aset                     Pr-oele   oar. tes      "I-. teSt           .en athe  2990 150O   91   a
Weerss  seseorestobdrt n   Vo, iby tlta 'O C-     fee-1od tesstfttstec  .4 "estsc   -L lao  terre I taceesse, tee.1. 5e.se                           :L- OS
,eeLil   OS  bat h  enailrts  -sett-etel         P--Ices.ho'eas.                         low.ta at70  peasa   a  ases lae   ei:19.                 S10   aa
c-O -disIteot It-s c       - neela -ce  ns    .-.nlss  10 -esee  fe  -se5sv - orces- tr  ce if etaIsq eet.dces cafseeiA
at   L-  ;,-etaIt Les     (t-fl  1910 OSI &W --Aso                                             tec.Pr-     yPDt  ~W -   o.cr O     -at r   tosilerse.le.
-               eec~~~~~LS eaeetr ervod . s  pse [IetS rat 'da  LO Sete. c-teas ci pee c.ottar 2170 OS 2191s tots.
ca   .ys  rs "Z.U     Sc-.!;re -Ie1            ftess I .       ECsesa  nese d                -Lteeece  Oast-ese)-lc-    ae.O   ase-?seept
poledprtess dIII-4 f    EL cr   oasIS   060 he elm  -d presets he                        19.0-o. 1. O   91dt.fcc-hsr el'   etcele   s
aenao  aeise  cn  ess f SSt   !  n!  rteoOSf  ae                                    elete   s-acst.ctr .1htdotl-sr psplale.OSRflIeto.
st atese  preeste -    aceeg  re  the e.rld  perrtb  t  s  heIoaestss-MIe  sislsere
-                 Thin~~~~A     beet Ufast  oer: 9Z-l 190O   E95dt.                                      dteetbs         ees tes Pcso  prlee pl   11-ode IS OS -c OSsers
IseIni5e50 PAess. enesou Cre  -teass          - teltse  pe ttessss  topeecte  ecb drtst  .s-t  fleer -. ets OS1f WIs     eeOS%  tts
es-fe   data deIv d-Wt -t '-Echce  tlot          . c1O    tol   or data.                 heehed fe.It                       -'
yo-s7   g  presne  tIer tdLntsti). 1970 OSdth0   at--.                                   aSIeeeer.tte   Se  ees  iee   te   tots 2sscc s Cacas
kne.  herctttns  o   seate      eet  reLaSfes                                              aieoel sdeorecdieLpl. ecs=claloee fcodeesttaoc It set-
asst  se pspt tsei. -rte. se   oslea  eseeeSt..s  55                                      tede
tee  selyfeteeetose         B Eas  cS To nisc hCO PteeVA                           eI   sotasteitl      see.  so   ttes  aea "rto.   oa 



-2Z6 -                                                       Page 4 of 5
TURnKEY - COUNTRY DATA
Population:      45.5 million (1981)
CUP Per Capita:  US$1540 (1981)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (Z)        Share of GDP aC Market Prices (Z)
(million USS          (at con.tanc 1980 prices)                (at current prices)
lnicator                                at currenc prices)
1982              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80        1965     1970      t975    1980
NATINAL ACCOUNTS
Gross doMestLC procuct fa                    52890                 6.6       7.5        2.8       100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                               10,324                3.1        4.4       2.7         30.7      26.4     26.2    Z.l4
Industry lo                               13.527                9.5        9.5       2.8         16.6      17.2     18.0    28.6
Services                                  26,073                8.2        8.0        3.7        4Z.9      46.5     46.0    44.3
.ons.mptLon                                  44.345                 5.8       7.0        2.7        84.6      82.8      85.2    81.8
Gross investment                             10.705                1L.7      12.9        0.6         16.7     20.1     23.3    26.4
Exports ot goods and NFS                      7,618                 7.9       7.3        4.4         6.1       5.8      6.1      7.1
Imports of goods and NFS                      9.778               11.2       13.8      -3.1          7.4       8.7     14.5    15.2
Cross nationaL savings                        9,250                11.6      11.9        2.4         15.8     [8.8      18.1    18.3
Average Annual Inerease (t)        C po sirion of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(at constant 1980 prices)               (ar current prices)
l972-75      1975-80                    l972     1975      1980
HERA tDISE TRADE Ic
Merchandise exports                           5,74b                   -6.1        2.8                       100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                   2317                    -6.3        4.0                        72.6     64.1      64.0
Industrial pro4ucts                        3,429                   -5.8        0.9                        27.4     35.9      36.0
Merchandise imports                          8734                    I[.2        1.2                       100.0    100.0    100.0
AgrLculrure ana livestock                    176                   Z7.9      -23.8                         2.2      4.3       0.7
Mining ana quarrying                         212                    17.4       6.8                         1.2      1.6       1.8
FecroLeia                                  3.640                     5.4      11.0                         9.9     17.1      48.8
Machinery and equipment                    2.352                    14.0     -[2.1                        45.0     35.6      18.2
Otner industrial products                  2.354                     9.9       4.5                        41.7     41.4      30.5
1978      1979       1980      1961       1982
PkICe-> AND TERS OF TRADE
GD? defLator (198U - 100)                                29.0      49.4      [00.0      142.1     181.5
Exchange rate                                            Z4.3       31.1      76.0      [[1.2     162.6
Export price index                                       63.0       78.2     100.0       91.9      92.4
Import price index                                       61.2      71.9      100.0      [01.8     102.6
Terms of traae index                                    102.9      103.8     100.0       90.3      90.1
As I of CDP
(at current prices)
1965       1970       1975      1980       1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                    15.0       Z2.6       22.0      19.8       17.0
Current expenditure                                                10.0       11.8       12.6      11.5        8.1
Surplus [-) or deficit (-)                                        -2.0        -2.3      -0.4       -4.8       -1.0
LIvestment expenditure                                             4.7         5.7       4.Z        3.9        3.9
Transfers                                                           5.0        7.5        5.5       9.2        6.0
Foreign financing                                                   1.8        1.6        0.3       0.2       -0.01
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80
OIHER INDICATORS
CYP growth rate (:)                                                       6.8        7.7       Z.6
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                                            4.1        5.0       0.3
ICOR                                                                      Z.9       2.9        5.7
Marginal savings rare (Z)                                                28.2       19.5      30.C
import elasticity                                                        17        1.8       -1.3
/a   At market prices; componencs are expressed at factor cost and vill not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
fl   InCluies mLning and quarrying. manufacturing, and electricity, gsa, and water.
7c   In accordance with Turkisn Government's specifications. which are not compatible with SITC's.
j9/ Co3
BEST COPY AVuAI rr -r



- 27-                                                                 S
ream - asin ow r a               =ti . nmsCa  rTn'. Am  DT Is
(Willioa US.S t eurrcS prices)
ropuLation:      45.5 million 11981)
cPr er. Cpita;  I01S40 (1981)
ArtSil  unrited                                              Prc
1-970    1915      1fl        33        1q31       19n2       198       1984      qLo        1986P      837
3ALA5CIE OF PAYNETS
Net exports of oots-s WS5                          342       1954      242        4653      3476       1"3        2032      20S5       2305      2571      2764
Exports of goaes 6 SYS                          75        3075      3247      4102       6414      7574        7942      9527      11214     13073     13191
laports of godas 6 31                          1096      5059       5639      £710       9592      9867       9994      11592     13519      1544      17955
warbers' reatcasea                                  273       983      1494       2071      2490       Zi17       1550      1952      l20        2404      2574
let trnsfers                                        91          -         -          -         -         -           -         -          -         -         -
Correat acowat e blaee                             -5S      -1741     -1771      -3Z07     -2076     -1010       -1t0      -1557      -1703    -1171      -2051
Direct private isveatment                           92        147       200        148       129       125         127       130        164       15        174
Public MLT (gross) lb                              271       1017      4321       2354      213$      3076        1547      1857       196£      2318      2601
AertCeLtion or NLT7b                              -146       -334      -414        434      S45     -1230      -1105      -1253      -1733     -2093     -22t3
Puoblic MLLT (at lb                                 125       651      3907       1920      1643       646         762       5S         137       225       393
Othr cptal Se.                                       27      1063     -2410       1642       933       200         361      1059       1730      1914       1935
Chanse is reserves is crral                       -1S        -148        74      -503       -680      -162         550      -202       -293      -324      -356
lIternational  roesent                             412        874        00       1303     1i89       2050        15i0      1702      1995       2519      2675
iseres a    cmths of iorts                            7         2         2          2         2          2          2         2          2         2         2
1972     1917     1915     1919      1930     £963     1982
CRcs DLSEUSSEtENS
Gross disborsenents                                                      372       759      357     4198 Id  2279      211b     2020
Official  rants                                                         -       -,       - t''-               -     -I       -1
Cooeces-iasl                                                          241      193       228      SU3        12      522      355
SiLatersl                                                          139     lo        179      406      749      499       2S3
1DA                                                                  4       19        8         3        -         -        -
Other eultilateral                                                 11e       74        91      179       63        23       71
saO-cnCesalanaI                                                       111      546       b29     3610 Id  1446    t294       1445
official export credits                                              1       47       133      250 -    23        355      4DO
153D                                                                25      146       145      27n      313      454       6S5
Omer mnltiLateral                                                   27        5        35       15      150       162      147
Private                                                             51      368      296      3043 Id   715      323       253
ErrERNAL DET
Debt -L.tading ad disbursed                                             2450    423        6322    10942    13415    13804    14296
Official                                                             22731      I7    WSW          WW                       TM
1is                                                                 92      512      64        ago     1158     1546      2144
IDt                                                                 99      181       133      190      139      18        157
Other                                                             2082     204      46513    6109      6934      7172     727
Private                                                               177      636       833     3753     5134     419       4193
Debt ontstaotng including ondiabrsd                                     3560     712       9879    14620    16007    17093    19561
D'AT SEVICE
Total dbt senir- Je                                                      224       363      425      627      1001     1231     2385
Pyeaymen                                                              161      196       264      403      605       566     1229
Intees.c                                                               63      167       164      2%       596      685      l155
Total debt service as 2 exports oa  goads   M UPS
-       .Crez   rai.ttnces                                          11.5     10.3      10.6     12.7     16.2      13.5     23.7
Total debt srvice as 2 CU                                               1.3      0.5       D.       0.9      I1.7      2.0      4.L
Awerao interest rat- on new lonsD (S)                                   4.4       7.7      6.9     11.3      6.5       7.4      7.3
Official                                                             4.5      7.7       54       3.5      5.5       5.3      6.2
Private                                                              6.8      7.8       3.2     13.6     10.6      154     12.0
Average sturitq of on  loans (Years)                                   22.1      11.6     13.3     11.1      17.4    IS0      13.L
olficol                                                             26.0     12.7      15.2     25.1     16.4      16.3     21.1
Private                                                             11.0      9.2       7.4      7.1      6.4      4.5       3.0
M  GROW EXPOSURE (Z)
I35 DDDWtItal DOD                                                       3.7     11.9      10.2      3.1      3.6      11.2     15.0
IUD disbureinnt/toLl gross disbwr -innte                               6.7     19.1      18.4      6.5     13.7      25.0     32.9
235  debt servseltattl debt service 1                                   3.1     17.2      19.2     16.5      13.3     14.0      9.0
IDM  Dooltotal DOD                                                      3.9      4.2       3.0      1.7      1.4       1.6      1.3
IDA disburs-Lntatal gross disbur_-ents                                  1.1      2.5       0.9      0.1      -         -        -
dA           i debt  edhr service Ia                                    0.4      0.6       0.5      0.4      0.3       0.2      -
As 2 of Debt &atscandsng
at End of Net sent
Yeer (19523
TERM STCE
aturity strecturv of debt  asteanding (7)
NaturitLa OMe Within 5 yers                                                                 39.9
Naturitis doe within 10 years                                                               79 5
Inter-ec structure of deb  wtc-tdin  (Z)
Itetrest due uithin fLxt year                                                                6.S
Ia   All entries on e ternal debt are defined as in the -an'. Debt-r Reporting  ytan (only public and print. goarantsed I.? debt).
7;i  Incides private guaranteed and                   debt and grant..
Ie  lnludes errr- and eaissions. and for projected years it inlcds- Met 7VW  short-ten, and onidentified eapital infleo.
7;   Includres  2.638  illion nf consolidated sbort-teen debt.
/e   T-s accoant of debt reltf du  cs debt reecaedlin4. and esclude interest an  hrt-ter  debt and private               - non,guateed debt.
12/221BY3
BEST COPY AVAIBLE



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A.       STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
ArAs of September 30, 1983)
Loan                                                                           Amount ($ millions) /e
Number    FT     Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-seven loans and fourteen credits fuLly disbursed                   2079.0    177.4
883-TU   1973   RepuDlic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                 8.0
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development                 75.0                12.6
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit               54.3                26.8
l265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Livestock III                     21.5                 6.1
[310-TU   £970   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                           26.0                14.6
1585-Tn   1978   Republic of Turkey       Northern Forestry                 86.0                49.8
1586-Tn   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV                      24.0                17.9
1006-fU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0                29.6
1741-TU    979   Repubiic of Turkey       Ports Rehabilitation              75.0                30.8
L742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Grain Storage                     85.0                81.1
1748-Tn   1979   TSKB                     Industry                          60.0                 9.2
[754-TU   1979   TSKB                     Private Sector Textiles           65.0                38.3
L755-TU   t979   SYKB                     Private Sector Textiles           15.0                10.3
S-£5-TU   1Y79   Republic of Turkey       Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                 5.1
t844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Karakaya Hydropower              120.0                83.3
1847-TU   £980   Republic of Turkey       Suierbank Cotton Textiles         83.0                65.4
L862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Livestock V                       51.0                45.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Petroleum Exploration             25.0                22.3
917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Oil Recovery                      62.0                37.5
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey       Labor Intensive Industry          40.0                31.4
19o7-lU  1981   Republic of Turkey        Second Fruit and Vegetables       40.0                38.0
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey       Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                110.0                97.2
1998-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey       State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                        70.0                62.5
2093-TU   1982   TSKB                     Export-Oriented Industries       100.0                99.1
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey       Erzurum Rural Development         40.0                36.0
2131-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey       Second Fertilizer
Rehabilitation                 38.0                37.4
2137-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey       Highway                           71.1                61.0
2159-TU   1982   TSKI                      Istanbul Sewerage                88.1                86.4
2318-TU/b 1983   TCZB                     Second Agricultural Credit       150.4               150.4
2321-TU - 1983   Republic of Turkey       Fourth Structural Adjustment   300.8                 300.0
2322-TU/c 1983   TEK                      Third TEK Transmission           163.0               163.0
23z7-TUIC 1983   TPAO                     Thrace Gas Exploration            55.2                55.2
Total                                                   4418.4    177.4    1812.2
ot which has been repaid                               439.8      11.0
TotaL now outstanding                                   3978.6    166.4
Amount sold                      3.6
of whicb has been repaid       3.6                     - 0 -    - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA Id                       3978.6    166.4
Total undisbursed                                       1812.2    - 0 -
/a  Tne status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated tvice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Became effective in November 1983.
/d Prior to exchange adjustments.
re  Net of cancellations.
BEST COPY AVAILALLE



- 29 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B.       STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Septeober 30. 1983)
Fiscal                                                     Amount ($ Millions)
Year     Obligor      Type of Business                   Loan   Equity    Total
19b4     TSKB         DFC                                -        0.92     0.92
l9b6     SIFAS I      Nylon Yarn                        0.90      0.47     1.37
1967     TSKB II      DFC                                -        0.34     0.34
1969     TSKB III     DFC                                -        0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II     Nylon Yarn                         1.50     0.43     1.93
1970     Viking I     Pulp and Paper                    2.50      0.67     3.17
1970     ACS          Glass                            10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS        Aluminum                          7.00      1.37     8.37
1971     SIFAS III    NyLon Yarn                        0.75       -       0.75
1971/83  Viking II    Pulp and Paper                     -        0.15     0.15
1972     SIFAS IV     Nylon Yarn                         -        0.52     0.52
1972     TSKB IV      DFC                                -        0.43     0.43
1973     TSKB V       DFC                              10.00       -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz      Tourism                           0.33      0.27     0.60
1974     Borusan      Steel Pipes                       3.60      0.43     4.03
1974     AKSA         Textiles                         10.00       -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                           1.30      -       1.30
1975     Sasa         Nylon Yarn                       15.00       -      15.00
1975     Aslan        Cement                           }0.60       -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS       Steel                             7.50      1.37     8.87
1975     TSKB         DFC                              25.00      1.23    26.23
1976/83/
84     NASAS        Aluminum                           1.58     0.09     1.67
1976     TSKB         DFC                              25.00       -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                            12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan      Steel Pipes                        -        0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS       Steel                              -        0.16     0.16
1979     Ege Nosan    Engines for Mopeds                2.15       -       2.15
1979     ISAS         Motor Vehicles & Accessories      8.85      0.45     9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                              -        1.80     1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                            33.15      3.43    36.58
1980     TSKB         DFC                                -        1.09     1.09
1980/82/
84     ISAS         Motor Vehicles & Accessories       -        1.67     1.67
1980     HENSA        Textiles and Fibers               4.0                4.0
198i.    Kirklareli
Cam Sanayi i
A.S.       Glass Tableware                  12.99       -      12.99
1982     M.A.N_
Motors     Motor Vehicles & Accessories      8.41       -       8.41
1982     TSKB         DFC                                -        0.35     0.35
1984     Pinar        Food and Food Processing          3.90               3.90
Total Gross Co -itments                      218.01    21.89   239.90.
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                  150.94     8.30   159.24
Total Commitments nov held by IFC             67.07    13.59    80.66
Total Undisbursed.                            11.26      1.07    12.33
BEST OPY AVAILABLE



- 30 -                          ANNEX III
TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:       5 months (February-June 1983)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:    YhK, SEGEM and SIS
(c) Project first identified:                November/December 1982
(d) Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:          May/June 1983
(e) Negotiations completed:                  February 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1984
Section II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) SEGEM would continue to exist during at least the life of the project
with powers and responsibilities sufficient to enable it to carry out
the project (para. 43);
(b) SECEM would introduce a cost recovery system acceptable to the Bank
so that the percentage of direct costs of SEGEM's programs recovered
by SEGEM by December 31, 1986 would not be less than 20 percent per
annum, and for each year thereafter, would be increased by a
reasonable percentage acceptable to the Bank (para. 44);
(c) YoK would ensure that the net floor area of classrooms, workshops and
laboratories available for training programs is of adequate size for
each training place, and that the refurbishment of each TTC would be
complete prior to the arrival of equipment (para. 52); and
(d) YoK would establish an Advisory Board at each TTC by September 30,
1985 with terms of reference and representation acceptable to the
Bank (para 53).



25                      Jr_.N                                 30                                                         31-
BULGARIA   r -                       .
N~~~Ecfirne   Kirklareli ~~~~~~~~~~~Inebolu                                            Sinfop
Zonguldak                           Ur
z_ I7-°                                                             KDrDSuU                                   lamoSnu                    Samsun
TekirdZ   c  _Istanu     IaiOrdu
BaIu                                                    Gir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1esun
Scridirma          D  z                       q~~~~~~ankiriAaa
_Z. -    Canakka                              +-r
Bursa                                                             ilecik                           Tok at
ux _          drmi           likesir                       Esk §eh r                             U
ui~~~~Aou                                                                                   r e r
uN.~~~~~~~~s
-3s.    Sgaa                            I                                                                              yse
* demis      ivril                                                                                        A  D  A
MorMonszee  alanian FcGaziio  dcg                                                                                REPUBL IanC             e
BurdL ~   ~     ~      Anmu
o  Monagemeni SysldoPrlle.n Fm Teckn,c.w  Edo                                                              REPUa nL IC
Indouyrial Consul4loncs
* STATE IN5TITUTE OF STATISTICS
Econonoc Stoi,FAics
Techncil Operatingnsters
Moeserch
ROADS
* --.l  RAILROADS
RIVETRS
0 NATIONAL CAPITAL
- --I ITNTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
o             IOD            200           300
R ILOE ETERS
re rSOU aust scenot lOn e wb*n1  aE ofTe I   , But..Ole  r    dOIWo
111PfUwSe. creao   h 0.l robe  rd ud WIY! 1o,~, Nha.o -  e 4hn dor
u m   C_  -   e  r o  l N A T IO N Ad   C I hL v a   C or v n . lO   w rn .
rn re IeObs d lOt or an Ieefe' or wqdo,ntr sirn  _talf
30                                                                    35-
KILOETER



I BRD17358
40_                     |                    MARCH 1984
Inebolu     Sinop                                                               U.  S. S.  R.
Kre                                                              Hopa  
Kost amanu             -n                                           Ar i.
Ordu       ~~~Trabzon
Silifke  AntaIyr u
Kiri,, a                                        rzizurum                                               z41tauayzt
ir~ ehi                                                                              <              I SLAMI C
REPUBLICg  \    t               /         Bngil                                REPUBLIC
evb                                                                                  Ia      Van        R A N
|  \  <         >~~~~~~~~~~ g   M~~~aaloya               i      r     
2~~~~~r                         iverek     9      xkkcirl
.^non  //                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~I R A Q
_  o'        ~~~~~~Iskentern,
ilifke         An a a
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g                                      U R K E Y
|         /                               ~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
|                   5~~~~~~~~~~ Y R i A N                                                                 35-
S                         A R A B
|                 ~~~~~~~~~~RE PU B L I C4d
POLAND,)
.U1i>                                                                U.       5        S       R.
-  =  _                                               A, *L  i  BULGARIA
T U  R K E Y                 S LstAMIC
GREECE                                        -  REPUBLIC
__________________35'                          _              CRETE      CARAB   IRAQ    1 RRAN
t                                                     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A UI 



