Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIY
Report No 4755-TU
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 28, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Currency Equivalents
1 US Dollar = 291.5 Turkish Lira (TL) (February 13, 1984)
100 TL      = 0.34 US Dollars
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
MOE;   Ministry of Education
MOL:   Ministry of Labor
MIT;   Ministry of Industry and Trade
PCR:   Project Completion Report
PPAR;  Project Performance Audit Report
SEE;   State Economic Enterprise
SEGEM; Industrial Training and Development Center
SIS;   State Institute of Statistics
SPO;   State Planning Organization
TA;    Technical Assistance
TISK:  TUrk-Is Arastirima Uzmani
TTC;   Technician Training Center
TTU;   Technician Training Unit
TEK;   Turkish Electricity Authority
UNDP:  United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO; United Nations Industrial Development Organization
YoK:   Council for Higher Education
OECD;  Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.     ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING .................... 1
Economic Development ....................................... 1
Manpower Issues ............................................ 2
Industrial Training ........................................ 5
Government Industrial Training Policies
and Budgetary Support.                                         6
The Bank's Role in Education and Training ....                   8
II.  THE PROJECT                            ........ 9
Objectives and Scope                     . . .   9
Description of the Project . . .. 9
A. The Council for Higher Education               .      .       9
Pre-Service Technician Training Centers (TTCs)  ... 10
Curriculum and Staff Development    .        ... 10
Strengthening the TTC Management System  . .            .. 12
B. The Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM)..12
National Industrial Training System ....                  13
Program Development and Expansion ....                    14
Industrial Training Consultancy Facility ....             14
Future Project Development ....                           15
Staffing ....                                             15
Cost Sharing ....                                         15
Monitoring and Evaluation ....                            15
C. State Institute of Statistics               .... 16
III.     PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ....           17
Cost of the Project ....                                        17
Summary of Project Costs ....                             17
Recurrent Costs ....                                      20
Project Financing ....                                         20
Management and Implementation ....                              21
Project Management ....                                   22
Procurement                      .... 22
Technical Assistance ....                                 24
Implementation Schedule ....                              24
Disbursements ....                                        24
Accounts and Audit                  .... 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in May/June 1983. The mission comprised Messrs. C. A. Sinclair
(economist, mission leader), S. Sigurdsson (facility planner), J. Schweitzer
(technical educator) and A. Gow (industrial training specialist, consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Table of Contents (con't)
Page No.
IV.     BENEFITS AND RISKS .. .........................................   26
Benefits ...........................................          26
Risks ...........................................             27
V.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS               .. 28
ANNEXES
Annex  1   Wage Rates in the Turkish Manufacturing Industry    . ..31
Annex 2 Manpower Projections, 1985-95 .33
Annex  3   Organization, Management and Implementation Capability
of YUK, SEGEM, & SIS                     .... 37
Annex  4   Evaluation of Benefit/Cost Ratio for Proposed
Development of Eight Technician Training Centers . .43
Annex  5   Technical Assistance Program for YoK, SEGEM and SIS ..            46
Annex  6   Table 1    Projected Enrollment in Technician Training
Centers by Main Subject .49
Table 2    Estimated Expansion of Industrial Technician
Training Programs, Council for
Higher Education (Y6K)              ..50
Table 3    Requirements for Trained Instructors by
Main Subject ...........                              51
Annex  7   Area and Cost Per Place for the Technician Training Centers...52
Annex  8   Project Cost Estimates - Summary Account by
Project Component    ..53
Annex  9   Schedule I implementation Schedule .54
Schedule 2 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .55
Annex  10  Chart 1    Council for Higher Education, Organization Chart...56
Chart 2    Proposed Organization of Management System for
Technician Training Centers, Technician
Training Unit, Council for Higher Education (YoK)..57
Chart 3    Organization of the Industrial Training
and Development Center (SEGEM) .58
Chart 4    Organization of the State Institute of
Statistics (SIS) .59
Annex  11  Comparative Education Indicators        ..60
Annex  12  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File .62
Map



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
(1982)
Country Data (1982)
Per-Capita GNP                                             US$1,540
Total population                                           46.5 million
Population growth rate                                     2.2% p.a.
Total labor force                                          20.3 million
Literacy rate (% of adults) (1980)
Men                                       96%
Women                                       51%
Total                                       73%
School Enrollment and Expenditure Data (1981)
Total Enrollment    Female Enrollment
Total       as Percentage of    as Percentage of
Enrollments 1/    Age Group          Total Enrollment
('000)
Level and Age Group
Primary (grades 1-5,
ages 7-11)                    5,860            118                    46
Lower secondary (grades 6-8,
ages 12-14)                   1,413             47                    34
Total secondary (grades 9-11,
ages 15-17)                     798             28                    34
General                          541             19                    38
Vocational and technical         257              9                    26
Higher education (grades 12+,
ages 18+)                       241              8                    27
Public Expenditure on Education and Training (1981)
Central government expenditures on education
as percentage of total government expenditures  2/            26.2%
Central government expenditures on education
as percentage of GNP                                           3.1%
Central government capital expenditures on education
as percentage of all capital expenditures.  2/                13.7%
Central government recurrent expenditures on education
as percentage of all recurrent expenditures  2/               32.1%
1/ Gross enrollment data. Includes over-age students and repeaters.
2/ Excluding expenditure on SEEs.



I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
Economic Development
1.01     During the 1970s successful management of the economy proved
increasingly difficult and by the late 1970s Turkey faced a balance of
payments crisis, a large budget deficit, and very high rates o domestic
inflation. As a result, the Government began a policy of structural
adjustment and economic reform in January 1980 which entails a greater
reliance on market forces and incentives, the introduction of measures to
achieve monetary stability, and the promotion of export industries capable of
earning foreign exchange and providing employment, particularly in the private
sector of the economy. The Government has been able to achieve success in
several of its objectives: inflation rates have fallen from 101% in 1980 to
25% in 1982; exports grew at 61% in 1981 and 22% in 1982; in 1982 Turkey's
current account deficit was less than 2% of GNP, and GNP grew in real terms at
4.6%.
1.02     The industrial sectors 1/ provided about 20% of all employment in
1980, and are estimated as expanding, in employment terms, at an annual rate
of 3%. These sectors are the main source of productive employment
opportunities as agricultural sector employment is more or less static.
1.03     Crucial to the attainment of the Government's economic objectives is
the sustained growth of the industrial sectors, particularly manufacturing and
exporting industries. Exports are expected to grow annually at about 11% in
the next five years, concurrently with improved levels of industrial
productivity. The manufacturing sector accounts for about 22% of GDP, 11% of
total employment and 60% of total merchandise exports. Export industries are
mainly in the private sector (80% of commodity exports), which has a greater
involvement in light and non-process industries than the public sector.
Average labor productivity was 30% higher in the private than in the public
sector. By comparison with the public sector, the private sector has a
greater capacity to increase export production in the short run, and offers
the best prospect of increased export growth and employment creation.
1.04     While manufacturing industry has grown rapidly from 1978 to 1982, the
productivity of investment has declined. Even in 1978, Turkey's gross
manufacturing output per capita constituted only 1/4th, 1/6th and 1/14th of
the levels in Portugal, Spain and Germany, respectively. In order to sustain
the growth of the manufacturing sector and to retain competitiveness in
international markets, improved levels of productivity are essential. In
analyzing the causes of low productivity, the Bank's Industrialization and
Trade Strategy report mentioned several issues pertaining to the productivity
of labor. These included inadequate industrial training and poor management
techniques in industry.
1/ Defined here to include mining and quarrying, manufacturing, utilities,
construction, transportation, storage and communications.



-2-
Manpower Issues (Annexes 1 & 2 )
1.05     The principal issue in the industrial sector is the low level of
productivity and poor quality of output of manufacturing industry, the result
of several factors including the previous economic strategy, institutional con-
straints, as well as the neglect of industrial training over several decades.
Two aspects of this issue are discussed here; (a) manpower scarcities; and
(b) the causes of low labor productivity in industry.
1.06     Manpower Scarcities.  Employers in industry report, and Bank findings
confirm, a scarcity of well trained technicians, particularly in exporting
industries which require high standards of quality control, modern production
techniques and specialized machinery. A comparison of the number of
engineers, technicians and foremen and supervisors per 1000 employees in the
manufacturing sector in Turkey in 1980 with the number found in the
manufacturing sector of some of its competitors in about 1971, suggests that
the proportions found in Turkey are low and would be even lower by comparison
if more up to date data were available (Table 1.1).
Table 1.1: Comparison of Selected Occupations in the Manufacturing Sector
No. Per '000 in Manufacturing Sector
Foremen and
Country            Year         Engineers          Technicians          Supervisors
United States a/  1970              33                    24                 47.0
West Germany a/   1970              22                    35                 10.0
Israel a/          1972             14                   37                  19.0
Greece a/          1971              5                     2                  4.0
Turkey b/          1980              7                    9                   0.5
Sources:
a/ Zymelman, M., Occupational Structures of Industries, Education Department,
The World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1980.
b/ 1980 Census, State Institute of Statistics.
1.07     The scarcity of well trained technical manpower, particularly
technicians, leads to, on occasion, technicians being paid very high rates of
pay. Wage rate data available to the mission (Annex 1) indicates that the
private sector of industry tends to pay higher wage rates than the public
sector, except at the unskilled level. Technicians in the private sector earn
a high 73% of the salary of engineers in the private sector, and an equally
high 136% of the salary of skilled workers in the private sector (Annex 1,
Table 1).



-3-
1.08     Bank estimates of labor demand and supply were undertaken by the
mission for selected occupational groups, including technicians, for 1985-95.
The basis for these and the detailed results are shown in Annex 2. The 1980
Census was used as a basis for projecting employment, current Bank growth and
productivity assumptions for the projection period, and information on the
supply of labor was taken from the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the State
Institute for Statistics. These estimates are summarized in Annex 2, Table 2,
and show that over the projection period additional manpower demand exceeds
additional supply for engineers, technicians, skilled and semi-skilled
workers. The projections imply that attainment of target growth rates in the
industrial sector will be compromised unless supplementary means of training
technicians can be found or unless a more efficient use of existing manpower
can be made. The proposed project would assist with the provision of
technicians through the development of eight Technician Training Centers
(TTCs) which will produce some 8,000 graduates over the projection period, and
will assist with improved utilization of existing resources in industry
through the proposed development of the training programs of the Industrial
Training and Development Center (SEGEM).
Table 1.2; Demand and Supply of Professional Scientists and Engineers,
Technicians, Skilled and Semi-skilled Workers In Industry. 1985-95
(in 'OOOs)
Additional      Additional
Demand for      Supply from   Supply as
Estimated      Labor due to   Education and       % of
Employment  Economic Growth       Training    Additional
Occupational Category      in 1985    and Attrition a/  Institutions    Demand
Professional Scientists
& Engineers                178          175               120             69
Technicians                     104          117               20             17
(of which proposed
project)                                                    (8)            (7)
Skilled & Semi-skilled
Manual Workers              3,211       2,447             1,430 b/          58
a/ Excluding upgrading requirements.
b/ Not including on-the-job training.
Source: Mission estimates as described in Annex 2.



1.09     There are three main reasons for the scarcity of skilled and
semi-skilled workers and technicians, namely the present orientation of
industrial training, a general lack of industrial training, and an absence of
technician training in particular. Orientation; the education system is
heavily oriented towards formal academic education as a preparation for
university education. As a result, graduates from the Ministry of Education
(MOE) secondary technical schools often seek places in higher education rather
than in industrial employment. Industrial Training; pre-service training of
semi-skilled and skilled workers is undertaken, almost exclusively, by the MOE
through the secondary technical schools, as well as trade schools and night
schools and through a small apprenticeship training program. Although
enrollments in MOE secondary technical schools expanded quite rapidly during
the 1970s, by 1982 only about 9% of the eligible secondary school-age
population were enrolled in these programs. As a proportion of total
secondary enrollments, they remained static at about 32% between 1978/79 and
1981/82. With the exception of entry level and on-the-job training provided
by some major industries, training opportunities for skilled workers and
technicians outside the formal education system are at present very limited
and receive only minor support from other concerned Government ministries and
agencies. Technician Training; programs for the training of technicians in
particular are quantitatively and qualitatively inadequate. As a result,
there is a scarcity of well trained technicians, particularly in industry, and
those technicians who are working in industry are either MOE technical school
graduates who have subsequently acquired their skills on-the-job, or are
university graduates or dropouts who are working at technician level. Until
such time as additional resources are available for the expansion of
pre-service training programs, the present informal approach to preparing
technicians within industry will continue.
1.10     Problems arising from scarcities of skilled manpower have been
compounded by labor emigration. Typically the more skilled members of the
labor force have left and, in many cases, have not returned. Of those who
have returned, many have changed their mode of work and their economic sector,
leaving formal employment to work as self-employed petty traders. The
post-1973 depression in Europe marked the end of Turkish migration to Western
Europe, though there are still an estimated 803,000 Turkish workers there.
Turkish migration began anew after 1980 to Libya and Saudi Arabia, where
Turkish contracting companies have won large contracts for construction
projects. Remittances in 1982 were $2.2 billion, and represented 38% of
Turkey's earnings from commodity exports. In 1982 there were an estimated 1
million Turkish migrants overseas, who comprised about 5% of the workforce.
1.11     Low Labor Productivity in Industry.  Low levels of labor productivity
in industry are due in part to inadequate industrial training programs.
Several factors have contributed to this. First, there is the lack of an
appropriate institutional framework for industrial training, with the result
that the coverage and quality of industrial training programs are poor.
Second, there is at present little financial incentive for an employer to
provide training, though tax reforms to alter this are now being considered by
the Government. Third, the strict control of wages and salaries by the state
resulted in a lack of instructors in industrial training programs through low



-5-
pay. Under the recent SEE reform decree, however, employees are to be
governed by a new personnel regime which is expected to provide greater
flexibility to SEE managements in determining wages and salaries. The
proposed project addresses the issue of low labor productivity in industry.
Industrial Training
1.12     In order to improve productivity and maintain high rates of growth of
manufactured exports, an adequate supply of appropriately trained, productive
and skilled manpower is a prerequisite. Turkey's emerging export industries
particularly will have growing demands for skilled labor. A major effort in
both pre-service and in-service industrial training is, therefore, required
and is one which the Government is now undertaking.
1.13     Pre-Service Industrial Training.  There is a clear need to extend and
improve the MOE skill training programs, as indicated by the shortfall shown
in Table 1.2 of skilled and semi-skilled workers. However, the more pressing
priority is industrial technician training, of which there is little in
Turkey. The Council for Higher Education (YoK) is the key Government agency
to assist meeting this need and a detailed description of YoK is given in
Annex 3. YoK is developing existing two-year vocational institutes for this
purpose. YoK was established by a law passed by Parliament in 1981, and is
responsible for all post-secondary education, including universities and the
two-year post-secondary vocational institutes. It is a semi-autonomous
Government agency, which reports directly to the Head of State. There are at
present 53 post-secondary vocational training institutes under YoK. These
institutes currently have an enrollment of about 11,000 students in two-year
courses in business studies, secretarial studies and tourism as well as
technical studies. However, they suffer from an over formalized approach to
training, inadequate premises, out-dated curricula, have almost no equipment
and are short of well-trained instructors. The Government has a program for
systematically and imaginatively reforming these vocational institutes, so
that they are more able to meet the needs of the manufacturing and exporting
sectors of the economy. As a first step the Government is developing eight
new type industrially oriented Technician Training Centers (TTCs), and the
proposed project would assist in the further development of this pilot
program. In view of the need for technicians, the Government is planning a
rapid expansion of technican training facilities through the 1980s (Annex 3
and Annex 6, Table 2).
1.14     In-Service Industrial Training.  Many of the SEEs, in coal, textiles
and mining, large private corporations such as Koc Holdings and public and
private sector development finance corporations, such as the State Investment
Bank and the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey, have established training
units which provide training for new staff, as well as upgrading courses for
existing staff. In addition, the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) has helped to establish successful in-plant training
programs in several large industries, including fertilizers, iron and steel,
petrochemicals and pulp and paper processing. The main Government agency for
in-service industrial training is the Industrial Training and Development
Center (SEGEM), established in 1978 and described in Annex 3. SEGEM is



-6-
managed by a Board which includes representatives from the State Planning
Organization (SPO), the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) and the MOE. For
budgetary purposes, it is attached to the MIT. The responsibilities of SEGEM
are to provide in-service training to the public and private sectors of
industry in management, technical subjects and production, mainly at the
professional level, and this is now being extended to include the supervisory
and technician levels.  SEGEM is at an important stage in its development and
has made the transition from a pilot project to a national and semi-autonomous
training agency.  SEGEM training programs have grown rapidly in the past few
years, from 400 participants in 1979 to 2,500 in 1982. In 1982, SEGEM ran 100
training programs for staff drawn from some 1,270 public and private
enterprises, using its own 45 professional staff as well as consultants from
industry, universities and abroad. SEGEM also provides short-term
counsultancy advice to industry, using SEGEM staff and internationally
recruited experts. Three-quarters of all SEGEM courses are held outside their
headquarters in Ankara, and are either put on in-plant or in facilities
provided by local Chambers of Industry.
Government Industrial Training Policies and Budgetary Support
1.15     Government policy for industrial training is reasonable.  It has
three thrusts; (a) to improve the effectiveness of existing programs; (b) to
increase the provision of industrial training; and (c) to establish an
appropriate institutional framework in which industrial training will prosper.
1.16     Effectiveness.  Agencies engaged in industrial training have recently
begun to improve their effectiveness by linking their training more directly
to the needs of industry. In 1983 the MOE introduced a new program aimed at
linking the secondary technical school curriculum to the needs of industry.
Eight large employers in both the public and private sectors of industry have
actively cooperated with secondary technical schools located in the vicinity
of their plants. Some 500 final year secondary technical school students in
the Istanbul region have been taken on by the firms and given periods of
in-plant training and experience of up to three months. On leaving school,
they are assured of employment in the parent factory. Similar close linkages
with industry have been embedded into the new program of technician training
run by YoK (para 2.09).
1.17     Expansion.  In the past few years, a training capacity has been
established in several industries and SEEs (para. 1.14). While the industrial
training programs of established training agencies such as SEGEM are expanding
rapidly, special attention is being given to training in new ventures. For
example, the National Small Industry Organization, an agency under the MIT to
assist small-scale enterprises, is proposing to develop a national system of
extension services for small scale industry. At present only one site exists,
at Gaziantep, which would serve as a model for the subsequent development of
other centers.
1.18     Institutional Development.  At present there is no overall industrial
training system and a long-term component of Government policy, designed to
encourage private industry to undertake more training, is the development of a
national industrial training system, which will both rationalize the provision



-7-
of industrial training and provide financial incentives to employers to
provide training. The main Ministry responsible for the development of the
industrial training system is MIT, which, through SEGEM, is proposing to lay
the groundwork in the next two years by undertaking preparatory studies and by
consulting employers, unions, Chambers of Industry and responsible Government
agencies on an appropriate design. There is a growing awareness in the
private sector of industry of the need to develop in-plant training. The
Turkish Chambers of Industry, which works closely with SEGEM, has set up a
special commission to assist the development of industrial training and
allocated about US95 million in 1983 from members' dues for this purpose. The
State Planning Organization (SPO) is undertaking preliminary studies of a
draft industrial training law which would establish the legal and financial
basis for a training levy on all industrial employers.
1.19     Budgetary Support.  In 1981, Turkey spent an amount equivalent to
3.1% of GNP on education. This is comparable with other countries at a
similar stage of development. Education accounted for 26.2% of all Government
expenditure in the same year; primary, secondary and higher education
receiving 55%, 26% and 19% of the budget, respectively. Technical education
accounted for 60% of all expenditures at the secondary level, three-quarters
of which are recurrent expenditures, mainly teachers' and instructors'
salaries. At the post-secondary level, only 1.5% of the 1982 higher education
budget was allocated to the two year post-secondary vocational training
program, and the Government is increasing this in order to further develop
technician training at the expense of the further development of other
branches of higher education. Education has been free at all levels until
now, though the Government is now proposing to introduce fees at the
university level. However, to promote technician training, the Government is
not proposing to introduce fees for the technician level at this time.
1.20     Expenditures on industrial tra.ining through SEGEM have grown rapidly,
and at an annual rate of 51% from 1980/81 to 1982/83. In the latter year,
SEGEM's budget was TL 225 million, 1% of the MIT budget to which SEGEM is
attached for budgetary purposes. SEGEM's regular budget has been derived from
three sources; direct Government support for SEGEM's budget through the MIT
(82%); payments made to SEGEM by participants in SEGEM's training courses to
cover the costs of training materials, and occasional purchases of
publications produced by SEGEM (5%); and, contributions in kind from companies
working with SEGEM on in-plant training programs (estimated as amounting to
13%). Payments in kind are typically made in the form of the provision of
board and lodging for SEGEM staff and course participants. In addition to
these sources of local funds, SEGEM received, in 1983, project assistance from
UNDP equivalent to 5% of the 1983 budget. Until now, SEGEM has not charged
fees to cover the direct costs of its training programs. In recent years,
SEGEM's programs have become increasingly popular, and in order to ensure that
the maximum benefit is derived from each program by participants, to increase
the level of service SEGEM provides, and in order to diminish the burden on
the Government of SEGEM's industrial training program, SEGEM management has
decided to introduce an element of cost sharing with clients which will
represent about 20% of the direct cost of SEGEM's training programs. This
establishes for the first time the principle of cost recovery for SEGEM's
programs.



- 8 -
The Bank's Role in Education and Training
1.21     Previous Experience.  The Bank has so far provided one loan of
US$13.5 million for an Education Project (Loan 748-TUR) which was signed in
1971 and closed in 1981. The First Education Project supported secondary
technical education through the provision of equipment to 32 technical
secondary schools, a technical teacher training college, as well as to the
Science Equipment Production Center and the Educational Film, Radio and
Television Center. The project also included the construction and equipping
of twelve trade schools, six adult training centers and a Management Training
Institute. The Project Performance Audit Report No. 4018 (PPAR) (dated June
28, 1982) and the Project Completion Report of June 1981 stated that the
educational impact of this project was considerable, particularly on secondary
technical schools, with project equipment well used and maintained and
enrollments in the secondary technical schools practically as anticipated at
appraisal. However, there were severe delays in the construction of new
buildings. These reports highlighted a number of problems such as political
disruption, poor design and construction of school buildings and the lack of
an effective project implementation unit. The experience gained during
implementation of the Education Project has been taken into account in the
design of the proposed project in two ways; (a) to ensure smoother project,
implementation, YoK, SEGEM and the State Institute for Statistics (SIS) would
each be responsible for implementing their own project components; and
(b) the proposed project excludes financing for the construction of new
physical facilities. The Bank has also supported industrial training
indirectly, through loans to specific industrial sectors and to branches of
industry which have included project or sector-related training. Projects
with a component of this type in the last few years have included loans for
the textile, sugar, steel and copper industries, as well as small-scale
industries. The major emphasis of the industrial training assistance provided
in these loans has been technical assistance to identify training needs.
1.22     Future Strategy.  The objective of Bank lending in the education and
training sector is to support the Government's policy to improve industrial
productivity. This encompasses training for technology development and the
development of appropriate industrial training programs and policies,
including the development of measures to reduce the burden of recurrent
expenditures of industrial training on Government, such as cost recovery and
levies on employers. The initiatives of the Chambers of Industry to establish
an industrial training fund, and the development by the State Planning
Organization (SPO) of a legal and financial basis for an industrial training
levy on industrial employers are important steps which the Bank will monitor
carefully (para 1.18). In the proposed project the principle of cost sharing
for industrial training will be established for the first time with the
introduction of fees for SEGEM's training programs.
1.23     The Bank is proposing to support two key agencies involved in
industrial training, SEGEM and YoK. Further project support for these
agencies and other industrial training agencies is likely to be requested by
the Government in the future. A research and development component is
anticipated in any future industrial training projects which would, as well as
maintaining the initiatives begun in the proposed project, encourage
appropriate technology development for Turkey's industrial sector.



-9-
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
2.01     The proposed industrial training project is ConsistenL with the
Government's development strategy to improve productivity and maintain high
rates of growth of manufactured exports (para. 1.03). The main project
objectives are as follows:
(a)  to strengthen the institutional capacity of YoK and SEGEM to provide
industrial training programs;
(b)  to alleviate scarcities of technicians in industry by assisting the
development of pre-service technician training programs; and
(c)  to improve industrial productivity by developing SEGEM's in-service,
on-the-job, industrial training programs for middle level manpower
and professional staff, and to establish a basis for a national
industrial training system. The project would also include a small
but important component to facilitate the management of the economy
by improving the quality of staff with responsibility for building up
economic and social statistics.
2.02     In order to assist the Government achieve these objectives, the
project would include the provision of:
(a)  equipment, furniture, and minor refurbishing for eight pilot
Technician Training Centers (TTCs) under YoK;
(b)  technical assistance to YoK for curriculum and staff development for
the TTCs and to assist with the strengthening of the TTC management
system and future project development;
(c)  equipment and technical assistance to SEGEM to assist with the
development of a framework for a national industrial training system,
program expansion, diversification and improvement, and future
project development; and
(d)  technical assistance to the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) for
an overseas fellowship training program.
Description of the Project
2.03     Individual project items are described below.  The proposed program
of technical assistance relating to each institution is described in Annex 3
and shown in detail in Annex 5.
A. The Council for Higher Education (Y-K)
2.04     The YoK component would consist of equipping, furnishing and minor
refurbishing for eight pilot TTCs, as well as technical assistance for expert
services to assist the development of new curricula and staff, strengthening



- 10 -
the management system, and for a fellowship training program for instructors.
The technical assistance program is necessarily substantial, involving some 20
man years of expert services and 126 man years of fellowship training.
Because of the scale of the technical assistance, special attention has been
given to this aspect of the proposed project, described in para. 3.18, Annex 3
and Annex 5.
2.05     Pre-Service Technician Training Centers (TTCs).  YoK (para. 1.13,
and Annex 3) presently manages 53 two-year post-secondary institutes under its
control, and this project would support the conversion of eight of these into
pilot Technician Training Centers (TTCs). The eight pilot centers have been
selected on the basis of; (a) their proximity to local industry; (b) the
level of support for the program from local industry; and (c) the adequacy of
the existing buildings for technician training programs. The eight sites
chosen are Antalya, Cankiri, DUzce, Iskenderun, Istanbul, Izmir, Kirikkale and
Konya. These centers have classroom and workshop space that need minimal
refurbishing to become adequate for their purpose (para. 3.04).
2.06     The project would provide about 2,600 training places in new
industrial technician training programs (Annex 6, Table 1). The projected
enrollment target would be reached by 1990 (Annex 6, Table 2), and the number
of technicians graduating annually would be about 1,200 from 1991 onwards.
2.07     Curriculum and Staff Development.  The project would assist with the
development of curricula for technician training, taking into account the
particular requirements of Turkish manufacturing industry. The curriculum
would cover a two-year training period, based on a 35 hour teaching week, with
approximately 10 hours of theoretical and academic work, 20 hours of
laboratory and workshop instruction and five hours of practical activities.
There would be a core of common subjects which TTC students would take in
their first year. This would include math, basic science, computer
applications, technical drawing and English. Students would specialize in one
of ten specialist areas which would include control and instrumentation,
communications, industrial electronics, electrical engineering, mechanical
engineering, air conditioning and refrigeration, foundry technology,
agricultural engineering, construction technology and computer programming.
The emphasis in the curriculum would be on equipping students with a range of
skills within their chosen specializations to ensure that graduates are able
to adapt to rapidly changing technology in industry. In this regard, computer
applications would be a core subject for both years and would equip graduates
to utilize modern technology fully.   Project institutions have achieved a
high level of cooperation with local industry, particularly in placing
students for training. The TTC at Iskenderun, for instance, places second
year mechanical engineering students in the nearby steel mill for 45 days of
practical training. At all project sites, local industrial employers
expressed strong interest in expanding training placements. Under the
proposed project, students will spend up to eight weeks per school year in
industrial placements and existing industry-TTC links would be
institutionalized through the establishment of Advisory Boards (para. 2.09).



- 11 -
2.08     Curriculum development would take place at two of the TTCs which
already have some experience in the development of technician training courses
and have close contacts with local industry. The Izmir TTC would be the main
curriculum development center with principal responsibility for mechanical
engineering and construction courses. A subsidiary center would be developed
at the Istaaiul TTC for electrical and electronic engineering programs and
computing. To assist with the development of suitable curricula for these new
courses, the project would finance expert services for a total of 138
man-months (Annex 5). The curriculum experts would also assist the TTC
Directors to achieve efficient use of classrooms and workshop space (para.
3.04).
2.09     In order to ensure the continuing relevance of the TTC program to the
needs of local industry, strong links with local industry are essential.
These already exist at the eight pilot TTCs proposed in this project and have
developed because of the interest of local industry which have provided
part-time instructors and in-plant training facilities where none presently
exist. In order to enhance the continuity of such linkages through a more
formal arrangement, an assurance was received during negotiations that each
TTC would have an Advisory Board with representation and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, including, in addition to the Director of the TTC
and staff from YoK, representatives of local industry.
2.10     To staff the eight project TTCs, there would be a need for
approximately 172 teaching staff of whom 40 would teach core subjects and 132
would teach specialist subjects (Annex 6, Table 3). The additional staff
required for the proposed eight TTCs are some 156, since approximately 16
qualified teaching staff already are employed by Y6K; some 200 part-time
instructors are available from local industry. Under this project there would
be a major effort in staff training, which would have two components. The
first consists of an overseas fellowship training program for some 156 fellows
for nine months duration. These staff would be recruited from graduates of
university faculties of science and engineering. This overseas fellowship
program would be conducted in three time phases with three groups each of 52
fellows. Each group would receive foreign language training in Turkey prior
to overseas training, which would be undertaken through existing language
training centers under the administration of Y6K. An assurance was received
at negotiations that the fellowship training would be carried out in
accordance with terms of reference, including a program and a timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank. The timing of the overseas fellowship training
program (Annex 9, Schedule 1) and enrollment growth (Annex 6, Table 2) have
been phased to ensure the availability of well-qualified instructors when the
new programs begin enrollment. On their return, these fellows would provide
the basic core of technician instructors for the eight TTCs.
2.11     The second component of the staff training program has a longer term
objective, comprising the development of an in-service staff development
program at Izmir. Alongside its curriculum development activities, Izmir
would develop training programs designed to upgrade new and existing staff
teaching in the TTCs. The facilities at Izmir are adequate for this purpose,
and existing staff, with appropriate technical assistance, have the capacity



- 12 -
to develop this program. The staff development program at Izmir would cater
to the additional staff requirements due to possible future expansion of the
eight TTCs and, in addition, the needs of the other 45 TTCs as the program
develops. In order to assist with the staff development programs at Izmir,
the project includes 24 man-months of expert services, and 72 man-months of
overseas fellowships for about eight instructor trainers (Annex 5), who would
return to Izmir following their overseas training.
2.12     Recent changes to the regulations governing Y-oK administered salaries
have improved those of TTC staff by placing them on the university pay scale.
The career prospects for an instructor with YbK are good, given the
opportunity for training abroad and the planned expansion of the system.
Under these circumstances, it is not anticipated that YbK would experience
difficulty in recruiting suitable staff for fellowship training. The
attrition rate amongst overseas fellows is expected to be low, as the
Government has a well-defined and effective bonding system.
2.13     Strengthening the TTC Management System.  Y-K already manages the 53
two year post-secondary vocational institutes, but a major objective of the
proposed project is to assist Y-K strengthen its management system for the new
type TTCs. In particular, it would enhance the management of student
admissions, course development, academic standards, teaching methods,
examinations, student placement in training and employment, staffing and staff
development, equipment procurement and the establishment of appropriate
physical facilities, and the development of a monitoring and evaluation system
to provide feed-back into the curricula and program development. To assist
with the strengthening of the management system, the project would finance 69
man-months of expert services including a technical education planner (two and
one-half man-years), an equipment procurement and facilities planner (one
man-year), and an examination and accreditation expert (one man-year) as well
as short term assistance to cover monitoring, evaluation and education
management aspects (15 man-months) (Annex 5). The project would also finance
34 man-months of short term overseas fellowships for 18 YoK managerial staff
and senior management of the TTCs. The eight pilot TTCs supported in this
project are an initial step in the development of pre-service technician
training in Turkey, and YZK is planning to convert a further 16 of the other
45 two-year post-secondary institutions under its control into similarly
industrially oriented TTCs. In order to assist YoK ensure the appropriate
expansion of its technician training facilities, the project would also
provide 12 man-months of expert services for feasibility and pre-investment
studies.
B. The Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM)
2.14     The project would assist the Government prepare a framework for a
national industrial training system and promote in-service industrial training
through the provision to SEGEM of expert services, overseas fellowship
training and equipment. The technical assistance program is necessarily
substantial, involving some 14 man-years of long and short term expert
services and some eight man-years of overseas fellowship training. Because of
the scale and complexity of the technical assistance, special attention has



- 13 -
been given to this aspect of the proposed project, described in para. 3.18,
Annex 3 and Annex 5. Specifically, the project includes the provision of;
(a) technical assistance to assist with the organization, development and
planning of a national in-service industrial training system;
(b) equipment and technical assistance for program development and
expansion;
(c) a strengthened industrial training consultancy facility; and
(d) expert services for feasibility and pre-investment studies.
An assurance was received at negotiations that fellowship training would be
carried out in accordance with terms of reference, including a program and a
timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.15     SEGEM (Annex 3) is a semi-autonomous agency existing under the
administrative control of the MIT. It was established with assistance from
UNIDO for the purpose of enhancing Turkey's in-service industrial training
capacity. The Government intends that SEGEM would continue for at least the
life of the proposed project, and proposes to enact legislation to establish
SEGEM as a permanent body and to strengthen its role as an industrial training
agency. Pending enactment of such legislation, the Government gave assurances
at negotiations that SEGEM would continue to exist during the life of the
project with powers and responsibilities sufficient to enable it to carry out
the project, satisfactory to the Bank. The Government also expressed its
intention to seek formal legislation to regularize SEGEM's future status.
2.16     National Industrial Training System.  To help coordinate and plan
industrial training (para. 1.18), the project would finance about six
man-years of technical assistance to SEGEM for a core team of about four
specialists plus short-term specialists. The objective would be to assist
SEGEM design a national industrial training system for the country, focusing
initially on the professional, technician and supervisory levels. The tasks
include the identification of manpower requirements in industry, the
definition of occupational standards, the design of an accreditation system
and a review of alternative ways and means of financing the envisaged system
(Annex 5). There are existing specialist staff in SEGEM who would act as
counterparts to the four core experts. They would work closely with the
Director General of SEGEM, and maintain a close liaison with other government
agencies, Chambers of Industry, the SEEs, private sector employers and unions
(Annex 3). An essential element of this task would be the compilation of an
inventory of existing agencies and programs undertaking industrial training by
type, duration and level. To assist with this task, the project would finance
computer equipment and associated software. The project would also finance 24
man-months of overseas fellowship training and study tours for SEGEM staff to
study other countries' accreditation systems and the experience of other
countries in developing, financing and managing industrial training systems.



- 14 -
2.17     Program Development and Expansion.  The objectives of this project
component are to assist SEGEM to expand the range, scope and quality of its
industrial training activities by;
(a) expanding the coverage and improving the quality of the two to three
week in-service training programs in management, technology and
production techniques run by SEGEM, from 2,500 participants in 1982
to about 4,450 participants by 1988, and assisting SEGEM develop
specialized technology training programs in key areas identified by
industry;
(b) extending the range of SEGEM's in-service training programs to
include, from 1984, about 400 technician and supervisory level staff
annually. By 1988 this program would expand to about 2,000
technicians and supervisory staff per annum;
(c) assisting SEGEM to develop training programs for new and serving
instructors in public and private sector industrial training centers
and hence to support directly the development of industrial training
capabilities in manufacturing industry;
(d) improving the quality of SEGEM's intensive English language training
programs for technical and managerial staff who require English
competency for production or export marketing;
(e) enhancing SEGEM's capacity to undertake extension work in industry
and improve the capacity of in-house training programs through the
development of a training materials and audio-visual aids production
center.
2.18     To assist SEGEM achieve these objectives, the project would provide;
(a) equipment for a training materials and audio-visual aids production
center at SEGEM headquarters in Ankara;
(b) five man-years of expert services in the fields of general
management, production management, training of trainers, English for
special purposes, and training materials production, plus overseas
fellowship training for counterpart staff totalling some six
man-years (Annex 5). There are existing specialist staff in SEGEM
who would act as counterparts to the four core experts. The experts
would report to the heads of the concerned specialized departments
within SEGEM.
2.19     Industrial Training Consultancy Facility.  The project would provide
20 man-months of expert services to strengthen SEGEM's on-going industrial
training programs (para. 1.14 and Annex 3), and to assist SEGEM to meet the
requests it regularly receives from industry for spot consultancies and
training in advanced production and manufacturing techniques. This program
would focus on manufacturing export industries where new technologies are
being introduced to increase productivity. Subject areas to be covered would



- 15 -
include specialized welding techniques, corrosion control, heat treatment,
chemical processes, numerical control, materials management and stock
control. The proposed facility would give SEGEM flexibility to respond
quickly to requests received from industry.
2.20     Future Project Development.  To assist the Government identify
further industrial training measures to improve productivity, the project
would finance expert services for 12 man-months for pre-investment and
feasibility studies for a possible follow-up project.
2.21     Staffing.  SEGEM's proposed program expansion will require that by
1988 the professional staff complement would double from around 50 in 1983 to
around 100, and therefore would require the additional recruitment of some 50
professional staff. The additional staff would be recruited from the sources
that SEGEM has used in the past, namely industry and commerce, universities,
and new graduates entering the labor market. As a consequence of SEGEM's
semi-autonomous status, it is able to pay salaries that are attractive
compared with those paid in Government and to provide a range of additional
benefits. The strong support for SEGEM of the parent entity, the MIT, ensures
that adequate budgetary provision will be made available for the anticipated
growth in expenditures (para. 3.07).
2.22     Cost Sharing.  In order to establish the principle of cost sharing,
SEGEM is proposing that participants in SEGEM's programs contribute towards
the cost of these (para. 1.20).  This policy is regarded as an important step
in the development of SEGEM, and SEGEM's terms of reference contain provisions
to enable it to accept fees.  It is proposed that participants contribute 20%
of direct training costs at this stage.  This proportion represents a
reasonable maximum for employers to bear, without diminishing the impact of
SEGEM's training programs. SEGEM plans to increase this proportion over time,
with the ultimate goal of full cost recovery. An assurance was received at
negotiations that SEGEM would initiate a cost recovery system acceptable to
the Bank so that the percentage of direct costs of SEGEM's programs recovered
by SEGEM would: (a) by December 31, 1986 be not less than 20%; and (b) for
each year thereafter be increased by a reasonable percentage in consultation
with the Bank.
2.23     Monitoring and Evaluation.  SEGEM has a monitoring and evaluation
system in place. This comprises the administration of a questionnaire to each
participant on any SEGEM-run course. The questionnaire is used to evaluate
the perceived effectiveness of programs. Follow-up visits by SEGEM staff to
industry monitor the subsequent on-the-job performance of participants, and
this provides a longer and more comprehensive time frame of evaluation of the
effectiveness of SEGEM programs. In addition, SEGEM recently surveyed some
1,200 industrial enterprises in order to determine industry's training needs.
The results of this extensive survey have assisted SEGEM to formulate program
objectives for the future. An assurance was received at the time of
negotiations that this monitoring and evaluation program would be maintained.



- 16 -
C. State Institute of Statistics (SIS)
2.24     The State Institute of Statistics (SIS) (Annex 3) is responsible for
the compilation of all statistical information in Turkey. Information
produced by the SIS is used by line agencies to fulfill Government policy, as
well as by the SPO for analysis and prescription of policy. To assist the SIS
improve the quality of its economic data gathering, compilation and
presentation, the project would finance 217 man-months of overseas fellowship
training for some 55 SIS staff engaged in the computation, analysis and
development of economic data. The fellowship program would cover the
methodology, computation, analysis and application of agricultural, mining,
manufacturing, construction, foreign trade, national accounts and price
indices data in the economic statistics and research departments of the SIS.
It would also include state-of-the-art reviews and upgrading in data
processing, census geography and special training for systems analysts and
programmers in the technical operations department. The program would aim to
upgrade more senior SIS staff who would, on completion of training, act as
trainers of other SIS staff in Turkey. There would be a practical emphasis on
the fellowship program which would be conducted, as far as possible, in
working environments. This is a large and complex fellowship program and, in
order to ensure a timely implementation of the program, the SIS would select
one of the internationally qualified firms experienced in providing this type
of service (Annex 3). A program and timetable acceptable to the Bank has been
developed which outlines the fields in which overseas fellowship training
would occur, the duration of study and the timing of fellowships (Annex 5).
An assurance was received at negotiations that the fellowship program would be
carried out in accordance with terms of reference, including a timetable and a
program, satisfactory to the Bank.



-17 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
3.01     Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at TL 12.9
billion or US$44.3 million equivalent and include the refurbishment of
existing buildings, provision of equipment, specialist services and
fellowships for the project items shown in Table 3.1 and further detailed in
Annex 8.
Table 3.1 Summary of Costs by Project Item
% of
Total
(TL Million)           (US$ Million)       Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Cost
Council for Higher Education (Y-K)
Technician Training Centers (8) 659  4,963   5,622   2.26  17.02  19.28  60.8
Curriculum and Staff
Development Program              146  1,570   1,716   0.50   5.39   5.89  18.6
TTC Management System               38    222       260   0.13   0.76   0.89   2.8
Future Project Developmpent          6      33       39   0.03   0.11   0.14   0.4
Incremental Rec. Costs              71    -          71   0.24    -       0.24   0.8
Sub-total                     920  6,788   7,708   3.16  23.28  26.44  83.4
Industrial Training and Development Center (SEGEM)
National Ind. Trng. System          38    435       473   0.13   1.49   1.62   5.1
Program Development                 33    218       251   0.11   0.75   0.86   2.7
Industrial Training
Consultancy Facility              11      55       66   0.04   0.19   0.23   0.7
Future Project Development           6      33       39   0.02   0.11   0.13   0.4
Incremental Rec. Costs             557    -         557   1.91    -       1.91   6.0
Sub-total                    645    741   1,386   2.21   2.54   4.75  14.9
State Institute of Statistics         6    150      156   0.02   0.52   0.54   1.7
Total Base Costs                 1,571  7,679   9,250   5.39  26.34  31.73 100.0
Phys. Contingencies                157    768       925   0.54   2.63   3.17  10.0
Price Contingencies                497  2,250   2,747   1.70   7.73   9.43  29.7
Total Project Costs              2,225 10,697  12,922   7.63  36.70  44.33 139.7
Front End Fee on Bank Loan         -        27       27    -      0.09   0.09   -
Total Financing Required         2,225 10,724  12,949   7.63  36.79  44.42   -



- 18 -
A surmnary of project costs by type of expenditure is given in Table 3.2
Table 3.2   Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
% of
Total
Category of                               (TL Million)             (US* Million)            Base
Expenditure                       Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Cost
Renovation and furniture
for existing facilities             85         37       122      0.29      0.13      0.42    1.3
Equipment                          575      5,151    5,726       1.97    17.67    19.64   61.9
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                       49      1,248    1,297       0.17      4.28      4.45   14.0
Specialists                      234      1,243    1,477       0.81      4.26      5.07   16.0
Sub-total                      283      2,491    2,774       0.98      8.54      9.52   30.0
Incremental Recurrent Costs        628        -         628      2.15       -        2.15    6.8
Total Base Costs                 1,571      7,679    9,250       5.39    26.34    31.73  100.0
Phys. Contingencies                157        768       925      0.54      2.63      3.17   10.0
Price Contingencies                497      2,250    2,747       1.70      7.73      9.43   29.7
Total Project Costs              2,225    10,697   12,922        7.63    36.70    44.33  139.7
Front End Fee on Bank Loan         -           27        27       -        0.09      0.09    -
Total Financing Required         2,225    10,724   12,949        7.63    36.79    44.42    -



- 19 -
3.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs of refurbishing existing facilities
(including provision of furniture) are based on mission estimates of the work
required to bring structures to acceptable standards and average US$200 per
student place. These costs would be borne by the Government. Equipment costs
have been estimated on the basis of costs per student place in comparable
Bank-wide f nanced facilities (Annex 7).  Technical assistance costs (about
30% of project total) are estimated at an average of US$11,900 per man-month
of specialist services and US$2,500 per man-month of fellowship training. The
man-month cost of specialists includes housing, relocation costs, salaries,
travel costs, subsistence, office services, fees, overhead and recruitment
costs. Base cost estimates reflect prices at the time of negotiations.
3.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Equipment and goods imported for use by
Government ministries are exempt from duties.
3.04     Costs, Areas per Training Place and Use Factors.  Equipment costs per
training place in the TTCs are estimated at an average of US$6,500 which are
comparable with those of Bank-wide financed facilities for technician training
programs of this type (Annex 7). Existing building facilities at project
institutions are adequate in size and layout to house the proposed training
program supported by the project. Minor refurbishment is required at almost
all sites, and is part of the project. Use factors in TTCs would be about 85%
for classrooms and just under 70% for workshops. Assurances were obtained
from YoK during negotiations that it would; (a) provide appropriately
refurbished buildings at project institutions prior to the scheduled arrival
of equipment; and (b) that to permit a minimum adequate space provision, the
net floor area of classrooms, workshops and laboratories available to project
assisted programs would equal or exceed 5.0 m2 per project assisted training
place.
3.05     Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions, equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of all project items. Price contingencies between negotiations (February
1984) and the end of project implementation are estimated at US$9.4 million
equivalent, or 27% of base cost plus physical contingencies. Annual rates of
price increases have been applied to both local and foreign costs and for all
categories in US$ terms at the following annual rates; 8% in 1983, 7.5% in
1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6% thereafter. By expressing both foreign and local
price contingencies in US$ equivalencies, it has been assumed that the present
policy of adjusting the lira exchange rate to reflect the inflation
differential between Turkey and its major trading partners will continue. The
lira has devalued in accordance with this pattern since 1980 and is now
adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system. Total contingencies represent 40% of
the base cost.
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows; (a) refurbishment of existing facilities, 25%;
(b) equipment, 90%; (c) specialist services, 80%, and (d) fellowships, 95%.
These percentages have been determined by; (a) estimating the indirect



- 20 -
foreign exchange of construction; (b) assuming that all equipment would be
imported; and (c) the anticipated composition of the technical assistance
programs. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$36.7 million, or about 83% of total costs.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  In order to ensure the attainment of project
objectives, adequate budgetary provision is essential. The project therefore
includes the estimated annual incremental recurrent costs (including
additional salaries, expendable materials and maintenance costs) over the
project period. When fully operational in 1989, the annual incremental
recurrent costs absorbed by the proposed eight YoK administered Technician
Training Centers and the in-service staff development program would represent
about 1% of the estimated 1989 annual budget for the overall post-secondary
vocational and technician program, and a negligible proportion (less than
0.1%) of the estimated total 1989 post-secondary education and training
budget. These incremental recurrent costs will be offset in part by limited
amounts of productive work undertaken by students in workshops and during
periods of in-industry training. When fully operational in 1988, the annual
incremental recurrent costs due to the proposed project with SEGEM would
absorb additionally about 1% of the estimated 1988 budget of the MIT. The
burden on the Government of these incremental recurrent costs will be
diminished by about 12% because of SEGEM's proposed cost recovery of 20% of
direct training program costs. The anticipated incremental recurrent costs
absorbed by the proposed project with SIS are negligible. The incremental
recurrent costs absorbed by the project are within the capacity of YoK and the
Government to finance.
3.08     Return to Investment in TTCs.  There are quantifiable costs and
benefits to the proposed development of technician training in the eight
Technician Training Centers. The costs of the investment comprise;
refurbishing, equipping, furnishing, expert services for curricula
development, expert services for the development of a management system in
YoK, a fellowship program for instructor training, additional incremental
recurrent costs deriving from higher salaries paid to more highly qualified
instructors and expendable materials and maintenance. The benefits of the
investment are the improved quality of industrial manpower, and hence
increased industrial productivity. As a proxy for these benefits, the
incremental salaries earned by more highly qualified technician graduates of
the eight TTCs as compared with the salaries of previous graduates are taken.
On that basis, the ratio of the present value of the estimated benefits to the
proposed development of the eight TTCs to estimated costs is a factor of 2.5,
which implies a high return to resources devoted to this component of the
project (Annex 4).
Project Financing
3.09     The proposed Bank loan of US$36.8 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (including the front-end fee of US$0.1
million). The Government would finance the balance of project costs. Project
financing would be in accordance with Table 3.3. In order to expedite
pre-investment work, retroactive financing of up to US$0.2 million is



- 21 -
recommended for YoK to cover the cost of office equipment and specialist
services necessary for timely project start up. It would be limited to
expenditure incurred prior to loan signing but after June 30, 1983.
Table 3.3   Financial Plan
Estimated share
Implementing Agency and            Government    Bank       Total      of   Bank
Category of Expenditure            ------- US$ million --------  financing  (%)
A.  Council for Higher Education (YbK)
Refurbishment of existing
buildings                        0.6          -        0.6           0
Equipment                           2.7       24.0      26.7          90
Technical Assistance               0.9         8.2       9.1          90
Future Project Development          -          0.2       0.2          85
Incremental Recurrent Costs        0.4          -        0.4           0
Sub-total                          4.6        32.4      37.0          88
B. Industrial Training and
Development Center (SEGEM)
Equipment                          0.1         1.0       1.1          90
Technical Assistance               0.3         2.4       2.7          89
Future Project Development           -         0.2       0.2          85
Incremental Recurrent Costs        2.6          -        2.6           0
Sub-total                          3.0         3.6       6.6          55
C. State Institute of Statistics
Technical Assistance                -          0.7       0.7          95
D.  Front End Fee                        -          0.1      0.1         100
Total Financing Required                7.6        36.8     44.4          83
Management and Implementation
3.10 The proposed project would be implemented by the three Government
agencies involved; the Council for Higher Education (Y'oK), the Industrial
Training and Development Center (SEGEM), and the State Institute for
Statistics (SIS). The organization, management and implementation capacity of
Y6K, SEGEM and SIS are described in detail in Annex 3.



- 22 -
3.11 YbK Project Management. The proposed project would be administered
through the Project Implementation Unit in the Technician Training Unit (TTU)
of YoK (Annex 3 and Annex 10, Chart 2) headed by the Director General of the
TTU, also the Director of the PIU. During appraisal, the organization and
management system of the TTU, the composition of the PIU, and links with
industry and the universities were reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
The Director General/Director of the PIU, Procurement Specialist and Project
Accountant/Finance and Administration Officer have been appointed.   By
September 30, 1984, a facilities planner (to plan the upgrading, renewal and
expansion of the TTC facilities), a teacher recruitment and placement officer
and an Industry and University Relations Officer would be appointed. These
officers and staff would be based in Ankara. There would also be a curriculum
and teacher training development unit established at the Izmir TTC and a
subsidiary curriculum development unit and English Language and Curriculum
Development Unit established at the Istanbul TTC by September 30, 1984.
Assurances were received from YoK during negotiations that the three remaining
members of YoK's TTC management staff would be recruited prior to September
30, 1984.
3.12 SEGEM Project Management. SEGEM's management structure has developed
with assistance from UNIDO since 1978 and this has enabled it to develop sound
technical resources and administrative procedures (Annex 3). Through its
cooperation with UNIDO, SEGEM has in place a team experienced in the
administration of technical assistance, which has managed a short-term
technical assistance program comparable in design to that of the proposed
project. The existing management team in SEGEM is capable of implementing the
SEGEM component of the proposed project with existing staff (Annex 10,
Chart 3). The Director General of SEGEM would be responsible for the
implementation of the project, assisted by a Project Coordinator (Annex 10,
Chart 3).
3.13 SIS Project Management. The SIS was established in 1962 and is
responsible for the compilation and presentation of all statistical data in
Turkey (Annex 3). The President of the SIS would be responsible for project
implementation, assisted by the Directors of the Directorates of Economic and
Social Analysis and Data Processing Center (Annex 10, Chart 4). The
fellowship program comprises training in these two Directorates. These SIS
staff have previous experience of administering overseas fellowship training.
3.14 Building designs. YMK's Director General of the TTU would hire local
architects to carry out minor design and supervision work associated with
alterations and refurbishment of existing facilities.
3.15 Site Acquisition. There are no site acquisition problems because all
project institutions will be housed in existing facilities.
3.16 Procurement. Invitations to bid for individual project items would be
grouped to the maximum extent possible and contracts awarded on the basis of
Table 3.4.



- 23 -
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangement /a
-----------USS Million---------
Project                               Procurement Method
Element                      ICB           LCB           Other       Total Cost
Renovation and furniture                        0.3             0.3            0.6
for existing facilities        -           (0.0)          (0.0)          (0-0)
Equipment                         21.3          4.0             2.5           27.8
(19.4)        (3.6)          (2.0)         (25.0)
Technical Assistance               -             -             12.9           12.9
and Pre-investment
Studies                                                  (11.7)         (11.7)
Total                             21.3          4.3            15.7           41.3
(19.4)        (3.6)         (13.7)         (36.7)
La  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Barn_
Loan.
The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows;
(a)  Refurbishment of existing buildings (including furniture), totalling
about US$0.6 million, would be carried out by local contracts and by
force account. These items would be financed by the Government;
(b)  Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$4.0
million and which would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers
because of the variety of the contents of each contract, would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with local procedures to be acceptable to the Bank;
(c)  Sundry items not exceeding US$25,000 in each contract and aggregating
a maximum of US$2.0 million equivalent would be purchased on the
basis of a minimum of three quotations, in accordance with local
procedures to be acceptable to the Bank; and
(d)  Books and training materials (such as films, slides and charts) not
to exceed in aggregate US$450,000 would be purchased in accordance
with local procedures to be acceptable to the Bank.



- 24 -
3.17     In respect of equipment, bid packaging would also be reviewed by the
Bank prior to bid invitation. In comparison of bids for equipment to be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports.  Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and proposed awards of
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award decisions. It is
estimated that this review would cover about 77% of the value of all equipment
contracts (US$21.3 million equivalent). The remaining 23% of equipment
contracts would be subject to selective post-award reviews.
3.18     Technical Assistance.  To simplify management of technical
assistance, the three implementing agencies would obtain specialist services
and fellowships as comprehensive TA contracts. At least three firms would
participate in each bidding on the YbK and SEGEM components, following a
short-listing of consulting agencies acceptable to the Bank (Annex 3). The
Government and YdK gave assurances at negotiations that they would employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. These consultants would be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank and Executing Agency."
3.19     Implementation Schedule.  The project would be completed in about
five and a half years (1984-90) in accordance with the Implementation Schedule
in Annex 9, Schedule 1.  The project is in a state of preparation that would
permit quick disbursement of funds because;  (a) construction of buildings (a
source of delay in the past) would be limited to minor refurbishment of
existing buildings and would not be financed by the Bank; (b) equipment lists
and specifications have been drawn up with external assistance and submitted
for Bank review; and (c) the technical assistance package has been well
defined, draft terms of reference are prepared, and proposals are expected by
Loan Signing (May 1984). Project completion would be December 31, 1989 and
the Closing Date would be June 30, 1990.
3.20     Disbursements.  The proposed project would be disbursed over a period
of six years (Annex 9, Schedule 2). Disbursements would be made against;
(a)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and
educational materials;
(b)  100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items (excluding
furniture);
(c)  65% of the cost of locally procured items of equipment; and
(d)  100% of the foreign cost of foreign consultant services and overseas
fellowships or 80% of the total cost of locally hired consultants.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.



- 25 -
3.21     Accounts and Audit.  YoK, SEGEM and SIS would each maintain separate
accounts for the project. Staff of the three agencies involved would prepare,
at the end of each quarter, a detailed statement of project expenditures
during the period (in an agreed format) and submit such statements to the Bank
within 45 days after the end of each quarter. Such statements would, inter
alia, be used as a basis for supervising the progress of procurement.  An
annual audit would be carried out by the Auditor General's Office and
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Financial reporting and auditing would be in accordance with the World Bank
1981 Guidelines Report. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



- 26 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     Under the proposed project, the potential of Turkey's industrial
sector, particularly manufacturing and exporting industries, would be enhanced
through the extension and improvement of the national capacity to provide
industrial training. Institutional development would occur in two key
industrial training agencies, YoK and SEGEM. Industrial productivity would be
improved through the improvement and expansion of pre-service and in-service
technician training programs and of industrial training programs at
management, technician and supervisory levels provided by SEGEM and Y-K. The
provision of increased and improved economic and social data would assist the
management of the economy.
4.02     The eight TTCs for which financing is proposed in this project are
pilot centers which would produce about 940 graduates in 1989, building to
some 1,230 graduates annually from 1992, which would represent about 10% of
annual demand at that time. Additional TTCs planned by the Government would
build on the foundation provided by the pilot eight and would supply an
estimated further 20% of demand. The impact of residual scarcities of
technicians will be minimized through the development of SEGEM's activities
which will assist with a more efficient utilization of resources in industry.
4.03     The project would facilitate the improvement of technician training
through the development of suitable curricula and training materials, and
through the establishment of an in-service staff development program as well
as further strengthening the management of the new TTCs within YoK. Through
the project, some 164 fellows would be trained to instructor or technician
instructor level, and these would provide both a sufficient number of staff
for the TTCs and also a core group upon whom to build in subsequent phases of
development of the TTCs.
4.04     Using the higher salaries of graduates of project institutions as a
proxy measure for enhanced industrial productivity, the benefit/cost ratio to
resources applied to the development of the eight pilot TTCs under the
proposed project is approximately two and one-half times as high as on
resources devoted to existing training programs. Unquantifiable, though
significant, are the additional benefits likely to accrue to the Government by
way of increased output and foreign exchange earnings as a result of the
enhanced productivity of labor in the industrial and exporting sectors
following the provision of, and in-plant in-service upgrading of,
technician-level manpower through the proposed program of Y-K and SEGEM.
4.05     Through the project the groundwork for the development of a national
industrial training system would be laid which will assist the long term
development of industrial training. SEGEM's role as an industrial training
agency will be enhanced both quantitatively and qualitatively. Through the
provision of an industrial training consultancy facility, SEGEM would have
considerable flexibility in meeting the immediate needs of industry for
specialist training advice. In addition, the proposed project would provide a
sound basis for further development of technician and in-service training to
industry under a possible second phase of the development of YoK and SEGEM.



- 27 -
4.06     Under the project, the principle of cost sharing for industrial
training programs would be introduced for the first time. This would lead to
a diminution of the burden of recurrent expenditures deriving from SEGEM's
training programs. The introduction oF the principle of cost sharing provides
the opportunity to raise the proportion of the total cost of shared
expenditures -a the eventual point of full cost recovery.
Risks
4.07     The proposed project would involve three agencies new to the Bank
including one, YdK, which is newly created (Annex 3). As a result of the
unfamiliarity of the agencies involved in the proposed project with Bank
procedures, there is a risk that project implementation would not be timely.
Early supervision missions would ensure that Bank procedures are fully
understood, and that special short-term training programs have been arranged
for project implementation staff. A greater than normal supervision effort is
anticipated in the first 18 months of the proposed project and considerable
attention would be given to the timing and composition of these missions.
4.08     In all three agencies, an important objective of the proposed project
is institution building. To assist the Government achieve this objective, a
substantial technical assistance program has been included in the project.
There is a risk that the technical assistance would not be implemented as
planned, and thereby attainment of project objectives delayed.  In order to
minimize this risk, the technical assistance packages have been designed to
minimize the administrative burden on implementing agencies by ensuring that,
as far as possible, the consultant firms/institutions would assume
responsibility for the burden of their detailed administration. Moreover, the
management systems of the line agencies were reviewed by the mission and,
where necessary, appropriate institutional steps have been taken to assist in
the smooth implementation of the project.
4.09     The proposed technician training program and the proposed in-service
staff development program at Izmir would require the recruitment of some 164
staff. There is a risk that it would not be possible to recruit an adequate
number of instructors for training. To reduce this risk, the Government is
paying attractive salaries to TTC staff at university rates. There are a
considerable number of university science and engineering graduates available
for recruitment and there are good career prospects for staff with YUK in a
new and expanding branch of training.
4.10     Each TTC is attached, for administrative purposes, to a university
and there is a risk perhaps that the development of practical job-oriented
programs would be compromised by this arrangement in favor of the academic.
Though real, this risk is diminished by the strong conmitment of the
management of YoK to the proposed technician level programs. Moreover,
courses and curricula are determined by YoK, instructors have a different
academic background from university staff, students in the TTCs are oriented
to employment within local industry and are academically quite different from
university undergraduates, and the TTCs are limited by law to a two-year
training program.



- 28 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations the Government provided assurances that;
(a)  SEGEM would continue during at least the life of the project with
powers and responsibilities sufficient to enable it to carry out the
project satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.15);
(b)  SEGEM would initiate a cost recovery system acceptable to the Bank so
that the percentage of direct costs of SEGEM's programs recovered by
SEGEM would; (a) by December 31, 1986 be not less than 20%; and
(b) for each year thereafter be increased by a reasonable percentage
in consultation with the Bank (para. 2.22);
(c)  SEGEM's existing monitoring and evaluation structure would be
maintained (para 2.23);
(d)  SEGEM and SIS would carry out their fellowship training in accordance
with terms of reference including a timetable and program acceptable
to the Bank (paras. 2.14 and 2.24);
(e)  SEGEM and SIS would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank and Executing Agency" (para. 3.18);
and
(f)  SEGEM and SIS would undertake an annual audit to be carried out by
the Auditor General's Office in accordance with the World Bank 1981
Guidelines Report and submit the same to the Bank within six months
of the end of each year (para. 3.21).
5.02     During negotiations, YoK provided assurances that;
(a)  an Advisory Board would be appointed to each TTC with representation
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.09);
(b)  at the eight locations at which technician training is proposed;
(i) appropriately refurbished buildings would be provided prior to
the scheduled arrival of equipment, and (ii) that the net floor area
of classrooms, workshops and laboratories available to project
assisted programs would equal or exceed 5.0 m2 per project assisted
training place (para. 3.04);
(c) terms of reference, including a timetable and a program, for the
fellowship program would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.10);



2 29 9
(d) YoK would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank and Executing Agency" (para. 3.18);
(e) It would, not later than September 30, 1984, fully staff its
management unit for the TTCs with suitably qualified personnel (para.
3.11); and
(f) YoK would undertake an annual audit to be carried out by the Auditor
General's Office in accordance with the World Bank 1981 Guidelines
Report and submit the same to the Bank within six months of the end
of each year (para. 3.21).
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$36.8 million equivalent to Turkey for a term of 17
years, including a grace period of four years.






-31-                       Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF TUhKEY
STAFF APERAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL TRAININC EROJECT
Hlge Rates in the Turkish Manufacturing Industry
1.       Systematic and comparative wage rate data are generally not available
in Turkey. Wages are recorded in the Qiarterly Manufacturing Industry
Establis1-met Survey, (State Institute of Statistics) on a quarterly basis at
four-digit International Standard Industrial Classification specificity for
the manufacturing sector, but only in aggregate for all occupational levels.
The official and largest union, TUrk-Is Arastirima lzmani (TISK), maintains
records of wage agreenits reached in subsectors of the manufacturing sector
by broad level of occupations. The appraisal mission obtained wage rate data
of this kind from TISK for the wood, railway, textile, sugar, ship repairing,
tobacco and energy sectors and these data are summarized in Annex 1, Table 1.
The limitation of these data is that they describe wage agreenats only in
larger establishments in the public sector, though wage agreements reached
through the offices of TISK are often used as guidelines and as a point of
reference for other euployers also. Wage data obtained fron TISK showed
considerable variance between sectors, reflecting the different conditions in
each industry.
2.       Private sector wage rate information for 1982 was obtained from
Chanbers of Commerce and Industry in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir as well as
fron major employers and are also summarized in Annex 1, Table 1. Data
obtained from this source showed little variance between sectors and even
between regions of Thrkey. It is clear that the private sector is a more
competitive employer compared with the public sector in that the former
appears to pay better rates, except at the unskilled worker level. Mbreover,
the private sector appears to reward higher skill levels more highly; a
technician in the "public" sector is paid 1.15 tines the pay of a semi-skilled
worker, While, in the private sector, the differential is 1.82 times.
3.       The eight TTCs for which support is proposed in this project would be
training graduates at the technician level. The location of the eight TTCs,
the type of training given, and the institutional links proposed in the
project are designed to assist the TTCs to neet the denad for technicians in
manufacturing and exporting industries. Thus, it is anticipated that
graduates in the eight TTCs supported under this project will seek and obtain
employment in private manufacturing industry and will, therefore, have
salaries at the level indicated in Anex 1, Table 1 for technicians in the
private sector.



Anex 1
-32                  Table 1
REUELIC CF TURKEY
INDUSMRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Daily Wage Rates in the Manwfacturing Sector (1982)
(in TL)
Skill Level                        Public Sector*          Private Sector**
Ergineer                                 1,912                   3,750
Technician                               1,650                   2,750
Forenmn/Supervisor/Skilled Worker        1,530                   2,020
Semi-Skilled.Worker                      1,440                   1,510
Unskilled Worker                         1,060                     995
Note:  *Covers maaifacturirg sector in which wage agreenents have been
reached by TISK.
**rovers agreenents reached anorgst nembers of the Chanbers of Camierce
and Industry.
Source:  Public sector:   Conpiled frcm data provided by TISK.
Private sector: Chanbers of Commerce and Industry.



-33-             Arnex 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC CF TURIKY
IND)USAL TRAi  PROJECT
STAF APPPAISAL REPOlR
manpower Projections, 1985-95
1.      In order to ascertain the magnitude of the training requirement for
manpower of different skill levels, particularly that of technicians, a formal
projection of manpower demand and supply was undertaken for the period
1985-95. The 1980 Census was available for 82 occupations and 9 economic
sectors. This permitted the compilation of a sector occupation matrix
conprising 9 sectors and 10 groups of occupations with similar education and
training backgrounds. The ten occupational groups used are defined in Table
1, Annex 2. Bank estimates of output and productivity growth for 1980-85 and
1985-95 were applied to estimates of employnment by sector in 1980 to obtain
enployment derand by sector in 1985 and 1995. In order to translate the
growth in demnmd for labor by economnic sector into a growth in demand for
particular occupational groups, sectoral denad in 1985 was distributed
between occupational groups in accordance with the 1980 sector occupation
matrix. The sector occupation matrix for 1995 was estimated by adjusting the
1980 sector occupation matrix proportions, particularly in the B-1 "Technician
Occupations" category, to proportions nornally associated with estimated
levels of productivity in 1995, using standard indices. The estimated 1995
sector occupation matrix was applied to the 1995 totals of sectoral labor
demnd to obtain the distribution of demand within each sector by occupational
level. Fran a canparison of the derand for labor in 1985 and 1995 by sector
and occupational group, the demAnd for labor due- to economic growth was
estimnated. To these totals was added the demand for labor deriving fran death
and retirement of the labor force. Attrition rates were generally 2% per
year. The projection was made with 1985 as the base year, and 1995 as the
final year. Annex 2, Table 1, shows estimated manpower requiremants due to
econanic growth and attrition by occupational category for 1985-95.
Supply Projections
2.      Data for supply projections were obtained frcn information provided
by the State Institute of Statistics and the Ministry of Education on
enrollment and graduates for nonformal education, secondary vocational and
technical education and higher education.
3.      Professional Scientists and Engineers. The number of science/
ergineering graduates for 1985/86 was calculated fron the ratio of science/
ergineering enrollments to total enrollments ir. 1981/82. This probably over-
estirates the unubers of science/engineering graduates as sane programa are
longer than four years in duration and no allowance is made for dropouts.
Governwent policy is to increase science/engineering enrollrents. Taking the
foregoing into account, an approximate 5% increase in graduates is asstuned for
each year after 1986, and these data are sumnarized in Anex 2, Table 2.



-34-                 Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
4.      Technician Training. Pre-service industrial technician training is
virtually no-existent. There are no post-secondary technician training
institutes at present, and technicians working in industry at present are
either university science/engineering graduates who have accepted employment
as technicians, or are HE technical school graduates who have subsequently
acquired their skills orr-the-job. In order to rectify this situation, the
Goverrmaent is proposing, through YoK, to convert, in the first instance, eight
of 53 existing post-secondary vocational institutes to Technician Training
Centers (TTCs). The proposed project would assist the Government with their
developxnent. The Goverrment is anticipating the development of a further 16
subsequent to the initial eight, and the detail of the proposed expansion,
imncluding the output of the present project, is shown in Annex 6, Table 2, and
summarized here in Annex 2, Table 2.
5.      Semi-Skilled and Skilled Manual Workers. Data on 1980/81 graduates
from the HE secondary vocational and technical schools and fron the network
of practical trade schools, adult training centers and night schools were used
to calculate supply. Since graduate nmbers actually declined slightly over
the 1976/77-1980/81 period, and goverwrent actions to increase enrollment are
unclear, no expansion of graduates was assumed over the period and output over
the period 1985-95 was assumed to be ten tires the 1980 nuiber, e.g.,
1,460,000. This figure must be adjusted downward to take into account those
technical school graduates (about 30,000) who will continue on to technician
training. Therefore, the total output available between 1985-95 is about
1,430,000. In the absence of data concerning orr-the-job training, no attempt
has been made to calculate additional supply from industry-based training
prograns (at present limited to major private-sector employers and public
enterprises) which will provide an additional supply of semi-skilled and
skilled workers. Hwever, the ME vocational secondary schools and the
nonformal education system provide training for many nonskilled and
semi-skilled manual occupations such as clerical work, service industries,
health, etc.  Therefore, the supply projections reasonably estimate the
additional supply actually available to industry.
Mancer Projection Ranary
6.      Anex 2, Table 2 sumnarizes the manpawer projection for engineers,
technicians and skilled and semi-skilled occupations. Anex 2, Table 2 shows
that over the projection period additional manpwer demand exceeds additional
nanpower supply for ergineers, technicians, and skilled and semi-skilled
workers. In relative terms, the projected relative shortage of technicians is
the most sigaificant, representing 48% of total demand. The projections imply
that attainnent of target growth rates in the industrial sector will be
conprcnised unless alternative neans of training mnpcwer in these categories
can be found or unless a more efficient use of existing marnpaer is made. The
proposed project would assist with the provision of technicians through the
developnent of eight TTCs which will provide sane 8,000 graduates over the
period 1985-95 and would assist with improved utilization of existing
resources in industry through the developnent of SEfB7M's programs.
Doc. ID No. 1613V



-35-               Anmex 2
Table 1
REPU1LC OF TURKEY
INWUSTIAL TRAINING PROJECr
SAEFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Labor Denand by Occupational Category (1985-95)
Occupa-       Labor Denrnd due to     Labor Denrrd due    Total Labor
tional         Ecornic Growth,         to Attrition,        Denand,
Category          1985-95                 1985-95           1985-95
A-1                 142,600                32,500             175,100
A-2                  90,400                45,200             135,600
B-1                  98,100                19,000             117,100
B-2                 287,100               177,200             464,300
C-1                 276,500               175,400             451,900
C-2                 881,100               238,600           1,119,700
D-1                  80,300                52,200             132,500
D-2                 723,200               604,700           1,327,900
E                   650,200              3,147,800          3,798,000
F                   287,500               308,700             596,200
TUIAL             3,517,000             4,801,300           8,318_300
NDTE. Occupational Categories pertainirg to the proposed project are indicated
in Armx 2, Table 2.
A-1: Professional Occupations Usually Requiring a Scierce/Math-Based
University Degree.
A-2; Professional Occupations Usually Requiring an Arts-Based Degree.
B-1: Technician Occupations Usually Requiring Post-Secondary
Science/Math-Based Education and Training.
B-2: Technician Occupations Usually Requiring Post-Secondary Non-Math-Based
Education and Trainirg.
C-1i Skilled Office Occupations Usually Requirirg Secondary School Campletion
Plus Job Training.
C-2: Skilled Manual Occupations Usually Requirirg Secondary School Ccmpletion
and Job-Related Instruction and Training.
D-1. Semi-Skilled Office Occupations Usually Requirirg Intermediate School
Conpletion Plus Job Trainirg.
D-2: Semi-Skilled Manual Occupations Usually Requiring Internediate School
Coxrpletion Plus Prevocational Instruction.
E:  Sem:i-Skilled Occupations Usually Requiring Literacy.
F:  Unskilled Occupations Requiring No Special Education or Training.
Doc. ID No. 1613V



REPUELIC CF TURKEY
INDUSMRAL TRAINIG PROJECr
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Mnpower Projection Summary Table, 1985-95
Additional Denmaxd    Additional Supply                                Deficit (-) or
Due to Ecornmis       from Eduration      Balarce           Total      Surplus (+) as
Occupational   Euployment   Growth and Attri-      and Training        Shortage (-)      Demand    % of Total De-
Category        in 1985      tion of Labor Force   Institutions        or Surplus (+)    in 1995   maind for Labor
Engineers (A-1)  177,800          175,100            120,000              -55,100        320,400        -1 7% 
Technicians
(B-1)           103,600         117,100              20,000              -97,100        201,700        -48%
(of wbich
proposed project)                                    (8,000)
Skilled and
Semi-Skilled
Workers
(C-2 and D-2) 3,211,000       2,447,600           1,430,000           -1,017,600      4,816,100        -21 
Doc. No. 1613V
IHI
(-DX



-37-                  Anrn   3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBIC CF TUKEY
DUSTRIAL IRAIN   POJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL lREPOR
Organization, Mmiagement and Inplemntation Capability
(Ircluding Tedinical Assistanre Program)
Y-, SEsE and SIS
Introduction
1.      The two main imlplanlenting agencies in the proposed project, YdiK and
SGEM, are relatively new to the field of industrial training. In addition,
Y&bK, SEGEM and SIS are also new to Bank lending. The mission therefore
carried out an in-depth analysis of the organization, management and
implanentation capability of YoK, SBG1 and SIS. Also, because institution
building is a key objective of the proposed project, tie mission provided
assistance to and reached agreenent with all three agencies on terms of
reference, as wll as the mxdalities of selection of consultants and the
managenent and implementation of the TA.
The Council for Higher Education (YWK)
2.       YdK is a semi-autonanous Government agency, in effect a
mini-ministry, which was established by a law passed by Parliament in 1981 and
entered into the constitution. Its functions are to plan, organize,
administer and supervise education provided by institutions of higher
education including the 25 universities, the specialist academies, and the 53
two-year post-secondary tedhnician and other training institutions. YiK's
responsibilities include the training of teaching staff and the appointment of
the senior staff and umnagement of the universities and institutes. The
President and sane eight members of the 25-member governing council of YbK are
appointed directly by the President of the Republic of Turkey and the YoK
President reports to him. Other members of the council are appointed by the
Cabinet, Ministry of Education, and the Inter-University Council. The chief
adninistrative officer of YoK is the Secretary General, who administers YoiK
through a number of Assistant Secretaries General who in turn administer
Directorates, which include Education and Training, Planning, Research,
Budgets and Investments, Library and Documentation, Data Processing,
Coordination, Administration, and Construction (Annex 10, Chart 1). A Student
Selection and Placement Unit is responsible for the country-wide selection and
placenent of the nation's approximately 241,000 students in higher education
and also mmnitors University exaninations. A Tedcnician Training Unit is
responsible for the development of technician training. Both these
directorates report directly to the President of YoK.
3.      Government funds for higher education amounted to TL 97 billion in
1982, 19% of total educational expenditure. YdK administers this budget, and
provides a budget for each institution under its control and ensures proper
use of financial resources. YaK now has a professional and aiministrative
staff of about 150, which are mainly housed in new accamodation in Ankara.



-38-              Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
4.       The Lechnician Training Unit was established fonmally in 1983 and is
responsible for the developnent of technician training, including the
transformation of eight existing post-secondary vocational training
institutions into Technician Training Centers for uhich project assistance is
included in the proposed project. YdK is planning to transform 16 other
existing post-secondary vocational training institutions into Technician
Training Centers subsequent to the initial eight, for whkich the Ibchnician
Training Unit is also responsible.
5        Within the Technician Training Unit is the Project Implenentation
Unit (PIU) for the proposed project. At appraisal, the organization and
managem-nt systEn of the Technician Training Unit, the camposition of the PIU,
and institutional links with the universities and industry were reviewed and
are acceptable to the Bank. Annex 10, aart 2 shows the present organization
and rrageurrnt systaen for the administration of the Technician Training
Cc3uxeri .  lair Director General anld Director of the PIU, Procurement
Sh2c:iAliW  Project Ancomutant, and the Finance and AMninistration Officer
1.   onr. ointed. By Septerber 1984 (about three 7rnths after Credit
: ,:_ tI-\ s)  a t acilities plarner (to plan the upgrading, renewal and
'  '--:i, i.     ia '- TLC facilities), a teacher recruitment and placement officer
;'y .   iniversity relatios officer will be appointed.  These
si- bafi will be based in Ankara. There will also be a curriculun
Y ,e-    developir;nt unit established at the Izmir TrC and an
i    lder an  a subsidiary curriculun developnent unit
i-2 Iscanbu'. TIC by Septentber 30, 1984.
6)      .lo _is'r YSC and its Technician Training Unit further strengthen the
;Lue, t-ie project wu,ld finance 69 man-nnths of expert
ia tecnical education planner (two and one-half
ian equipr;-ent procurement/facilities planner (one man-year) and an
L.ui;.:ron and accreditation expert (one man-year) as well as short-term
sasistance to cover unitoring, evaluation and education managenit aspects
!L nra.-mraLu-hs) (AnnLex 5).  The project would also finance 34 mannxxiths of
shurL-,-4icsr, vcr seas feliloships for 18 YoK managerial staff and senior
,-<rgurcnt of project institutions.
All the existing post-secondary vocational training institutions are
La'  ..iZ , for administrative purposes, to a parent university in the vicinity
and d)e eight proposed project TCs would remain under their administrative
cooi:ral   The Director General of the Technician Training Unit/PIIJ Director
b;s 1<>cc:- ,ess to university rectors on all matters affecting the
evXeiopranL of Lae ITCs and will, in consultation with the rectors and the
Pr&sident of Y,rZK, advise on the appointment of TTC principals and other senior
staff. A. critical factor affecting the developnait of technician training
undo; 'rz asnd the proposed project is the degree to which the Director can
establish effective relationships with the staff in the universities concerned
wijt the a(Thinistration of the TICs. The high calibre of the present
- rmpirig Unit/PIU staff is likely to assist this process.
8        Ihe responsibility for curriculum and staff development, and the
1lbdet of each TIC is with YoK, which ensures budget autonDmy fron parent
o  zers!tieas and independerce in progran development.  The adninistrative link
Wi tri the universities has the advantage that there is a strong local



-39-               Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
administrative support for each TTC. However, it carries the risk that the
distinction between university studies and the industrial techrician training
programs proposed by the project nay be made less clear. This issue is
appreciated at the highest levels in YoK and every effort is being made to
derive the muximn benefit frm  the administrative liaison with the
universities.
9.       Wnile YoK is a relatively young organization, it is a dynanic one, in
which there is considerable enthusiasm for the developnient of technician
training. The staff associated with the proposed project are well qualified
and have experience of the developnmt of new educational programs.
Technical Assistance
10.      Terms of Reference for the proposed technical assistance were agreed
during negotiations and a letter of invitation would be sent to three
shortlisted international consultancy firms approved by the Bank. It is
anticipated that the tedinical assistance (sumarized in Annex 5) would be
implemented by either a single firnminstitution or by a consortium of finrs
specialized in particular aspects of the proposed program, who euold have the
responsibility of implenenting the TA package including the provision of
experts and arrangemnat of overseas training fellawships. The selected
firm(s) would have extensive international experience in the development of
pre-service industrial tednician training and in the manaagement of link
arrangeTents between technician institutions. The finm would be expected to
provide both expert services and counterpart fellowship training and would
need to deaunstrate its ability to provide extensive services: (a) for the
nmagenEt and welfare of experts in the field; and (b) for the placenent,
guidance and counselling of students in foreign countries. It is anticipated
that the firm would also assist establish long-term institutional links
between YoK and one or more qualified and suitably experienced technician
education institutions in the firm's own country. It is anticipated that the
foreigi link institutions would provide a large part of the expert services
fran their cwn staff, and would also actively participate in the desigi of the
counterpart fellowship training progran. This would have the advantage that
the expert services would be provided by an institution or institutions with a
long-term ccmmitment to the project and to developing an institutional
expertise concerning industrial training in Turkey. Several
firms/institutions capable of providing this type of service are qualified
with the Bank.  In sumnary, the firm would be expected to provide the
following administrative services to YoK, through the P1U Director.
-    Identification of suitable link institution(s) in firm's own country.
-   Nanagement of link arrangements.
-    Recruitnmt of experts.
- Management of experts in Turkey including provision of housing,
transport, welfare, airfares to and frmn Turkey, etc.
-   Arrangeent of overseas fellowship training including placement,
welfare and counselling of students.
-    Regular provision of progress reports.



-40-                  Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
The firm will be selected accorTding to Bank guidelines and proposals will, in
the first instance, be evaluated on technical merits only. The Bank will
Tmoitor closely the selectioa procedtre.
The Industrial Training and Developmnt Center (SEG)
11.      SGBEM is a semi-autncmaais industrial training agency, which was
established in 1978.  It is m-naged bv a Board Which incl-udes representatives
fron the SPO, i{DE, employers federations, universities, industrial research
institutes, and SEEs. The Board is chaired by the TUnder Secretary of the MlT,
which acts as the parent ministry for budgetary purposes. The
responsibilities of SEGEM are to provide in-service training to the public and
private sectors of industry, in nminagement, technical subjects and production,
mainly at the professional level, though this is ncow being extended to include
the supervisory and technician level. Day-to-day operations are controlled by
a Director General, who is assisted by two Assistant Directors General, one
for technical affairs and one for administration.  The technical affairs
directorate includes the tedhnical oLficers which covers nmst branches of
ergineering, as well as industrial relations, plani2ng and control and
training (Annex 10, Qiart 3). Ihese are the officers wio administer and
provide the technical work of SEEA.
12.     Each year, SEGEB  provides trairing courses, brief consultancy visits
to industry, seninars ard rmeetings. TGCN has gromn rapidly in recent years
to the point where in 1982 SEGEKq ran 100 training programs on twa-to
three-week courses for soma 2,500 particip2ats drawn from some 1,270 public
and private enterprises. SEGEM administers an English language training
center which taught some 260 students in 1982 on three to six ronth part-time
courses, and published sane 100 books, seminar notes and reports in 1982 on
different technical subjects. Tn 1932, SEGTE employed scme 85 staff of whn
45 were professional staff. In recent years, SEGEH's budget has grown
conmensurately withi its increased act ivities, to the point where in 1982, its
budget was TL 225 million (para. 1.20).
13.     SEGEM has developed rapidly sin2e 1980. Its growth has been in
response to requests fran industry for particular training prograns,
consultancies and seminars aind h.rLas thus maintained relevance and vitality in
progran design. It has good relations with industry, Chanbers of Industry and
najor employers.  It also has the strong support of its parent Ministry: the
EIT. SEGEIM has received technical assistance fran UNIDO since 1978, and this
has enabled SEM  to develop sound tedcnical resources anid administrative
procedures. UNID)0's technical assistar.ce program was analler in size than in
the proposed project, but comparable in design. Under the UNMO progran, the
P3J in SEGM  administered scnre 40 short-term experts of two to Four moths'
duration and one lorger term expert, as well as a fellowship program involving
19 fellows, primarily in the past tT-o years. The present management of SBXEM
is experienrced in the administratian of tecnical assistance and wuld be able
to utilize the proposed. program Lo good effect.
14.      In atteerpting to mset the demand for training prograns fran industry,
SEGEM's program has diversified in recent years. A recent UNIDO evaluation
report emphasized the need to ratirnalize the training progranm on the basis
of clearly defined priority irdustrial training needs and staff strengths, and



-41-              Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
a najor emphasis of the proposed project will be to assist SEG(M in an orderly
expansion of its programs, with an appropriate evolution of internal staff and
organizational developnent. Priority areas for program expansion already
identified include training of industrial trainers, quality control,
nnufacturing systems and nenagennt.
15.      A najoi constraint to the long-run developnent of SEGEM is its
cramped acconTodation in Ankara. This issue has been recogiized by the Board
of SEGEM, and a number of alternative accmmodations are being examined. As a
result of its close links with industry, SEGEM has been offered several
possible alternative premises.  However, thus far, it has not been possible to
locate premises which fully neet SE&EM's needs.  For the purpose of
implementing the proposed project, SE(EM would continue its extension approach
to training, using its existing facilities, in-plant or hired facilities at
each training location. Throu4h its cooperation with UNIDO, SEGEM has in
place an experienced PID consisting of a project coordinator and an
assistant. The PIU reports to the Director General (Annex 10, Chart 3).
Technical Assistance
16.      Terms of reference for the TA have been prepared and agreed during
negotiations. A letter of invitation wuld be sent to three shortlisted
international consulting firms approved by the Bank. Firms will be selerted
according to Bank guidelines, with proposals evaluated in the first instance
on technical n-erits only. The Bank will nonitor closely the selection
procedure. The TA has been divided into two packages. The first package
comprises expert services and counterpart training for program developnent and
institution building in SEGEM, including the provision of industrial training
consultancy to industry. The second package oonprises expert services and
counterpart training to assist SGE1a to undertake, in cooperation with MIT,
SFO, the SEEs and private industry, a canprehensive survey to prepare detailed
plans to be presented to the Governnent for the or-ganization, developnent and
financing of a country-wide industrial training system. These two packages
my be provided by a single finn, by separate firms for each package, or by a
consortium bidding simultaneously for both packages.
17.      The selected firn or firms will have extensive international
experience in industrial training and manpower planning. Tke firms will be
expected to provide both expert services and counterpart fellowship training
and will need to demonstrate ability to provide extensive services; (a) for
the nmnagenent and welfare of experts in the field; and (b) for the placenent,
guidance and counselling of trainees in foreiga countries. Several firms
capable of providing these services exist. The firm would be expected to
provide the follcwing adninistrative services to SEGEI;
-    Pecruitnent of experts.
-   Management of experts in Turkey including provision of housing,
transport, welfare, airfares to and frcm Turkey, etc.



-42-           Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
ArrangenmBt of overseas fellcship training including placemrent,
welfare and couaselling of trainees.
-    Regular provision of progress reports.
The State Institute of Statistics (SIS)
18.      SIS was established in 1962 to collect and ccnpile statistics for
Govermnent in such areas as population and health, education, agriculture,
nanufacturirg, national accounts, foreigi trade, prices, ccunerce,  npcwer,
employment and Tages, transport and finance. The SIS maintains basic
statistical standards in Tlrkey and coordinates the statistical work of
Goverrment agencies.  The SIS publishes numerous statistical reports including
a statistical yearbock, establishment and haisehold surveys. An important
function of SIS is to conduct regular population, agricultural and business
censuses. Population censuses are conducted every five years.  The SB, which
is part of the Prim  Milnister's Office, is headed by a President, assisted by
two Vice-Presidents with sane 300 professional staff. It is organized into
four technical directorates - EcoKnic and Social Research, Ecornoic and
Social Analysis, Econanic Statistics and Social Statistics (Annex 10,
Chart 4). A Data Processing Center provides computational facilities.
Computational equipment is reasonably up to date and well used.
Thchnical Assistance
19.      Because funding constraints have limited overseas professional
contacts and opportunities for professional upgrading, the staff at SIS,
although conpetent, have found it difficult to keep themelves abreast of
advances in statistical rethodology and computational techniques, essential
for the maintenance of a high quality statistical service for Goverrment and
industry. The fellowship program therefore has been designed to provide
relevant professional skills upgrading for key SIS staff. Trainees will be
selected from auongst the ranks of SIS professional staff on the basis of
their technical ccmpetence, position within SIS and ability to act as staff
trainers in SIS on completion of their fellowships. It is anticipated that
the majority of the trainees would undergo training in a single competent
overseas statistical agency experienced in providing this type of in-service
professional upgrading.
20.      The proposed fellowship traiinmg program will be implemented by the
Directorate of Economic and Social Analysis in collaboration with the Data
Processing Center.  Terms of reference for a qualified agency to implement the
overseas fellowship training program described in Annex 5 have been prepared
and were agreed at negotiations. The agency would provide a full service of
lacemant, trainee counselling and welfare and provide regular monitoring and
progress reports on trainees. The agency would be selected in accordance with
Bark guidelines, and in view of the specialized nature of the training to be
provided, SIS may select a single agency without recourse to competitive
-iddirg. A letter of invitation to the selected agency or agencies will be
sent by iMarch 31, 1984. Candidate agencies for the adninistration of the
fellowship program have been identified by SIS.



-43-             Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF IURKEY
INDUSTETAL TRAININ PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Evaluation of Benefit/Cost Ratio for Proposed Development of
Eight Technician Training Centers
1.       In the proposed project, industrial technician training will be
established at eight existing post-secondary vocational training centers. The
investment costs of the proposed program include. refurbishing existing
buildings; eipment for workshops; furniture; technical assistance for expert
services for curriculum development and the development of a management system
in YcK, and fellowships for instructor training; higher salaries to more
highly trained instructors than those presently employed; maintenance of
buildings and teaching and expendable materials. The direct benefits of the
project are the higher salaries which future graduates will earn as
technicians camnped with those of existing graduates.
2.       This evaluation focusses on the part of the proposed project which
c-nprises assistance with the developnent of the technician training at eight
proposed centers and estirmtes the benefit/cost ratio to the Government
between continuing to utilize existing resources (buildings, labor,
classrooms, teachers) for their present purpose compared with the benefit to
the investment in technician training proposed in this project. Table 1
sumnmarizes the detailed calculations. Cost data are taken from appraisal
estimates of project costs. Wage data are based on recent information on wage
patterns available to the mission and shown in Annex 1, Table 1.
3.       The evaluation indicates that by undertaking the investment proposed
in this project, the Government will enjoy a return to its resources of about
two and one-half times the level it presently enjoys. This supports the
Governnent's view that the proposed project is a priority for resources.
4.       Assunptions and Technical Notes
Discount Rate: A discount rate of 12% was used, based on
MEshayekhi, A., Shadow Prices for Project Appraisal in Turkey. World Bank
Staff Working Paper No. 392 (May 1980).



-44               Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
5.       Duration of Evaluation.  It was assuumed that after 12 years, the
equipment provided by the proposed project would be totally depreciated and/or
that the sane equipment would be technologically outmoded by then. The life
of the project for this exercise is from the mmient wnen additional costs are
irnurred (1984) to the monent that the equipment is totally depreciated,
1999. The base year of the evaluation is 1985, and all prices are expressed
in 1983 levels.
6.       Benefits.  Benefits are measured by the irerrmental salary to be
earned by graduates of new programs compared with those of existing programs.
For each year, the present value of estimated salaries of graduates from the
new program is subtracted from the present value of estinated salaries
graduates would earn fran the existing program. Available information on the
employment prospects and ircone potential of graduates of existing programs
suggests that they would enjoy salaries of approximately TL 25,000/month (1982
prices). Graduates of new technician programs are assumned to earn
TL 55,000/month (1982 prices) rising at 2% annually. Both sets of wage rates
are converted to 1983 prices, and graduates of the new program are estimated
as earnirg TL 825,000 initially and graduates of the existing programs,
TL 375,000 annually in 1983 prices.
7.       Costs. The proposed project supports the development of eight
technician training centers which the Governmrent intends should be a precursor
to the developnent of other technician training centers. The curricula
developed for the eight centers will be applicable to other centers in the
future. Similarly, expert services for the developnent of a management system
in Y^dK has an application beyond the exisiting eight technician training
centers supported in this project. It will benefit all subsequent technician
training centers also. Therefore, the expert services costs pertaining to
curriculun development and the development of a management system at YdK were
entered in this calculation at 30%/ and 50%, respectively, of total costs,
while equipment costs and fellowships ware entered at 100% of cost.  The costs
of existing buildings are assumed to be the sane to both the existing and the
proposed program. The cost of refurbishing existing buildings is charged
fully to the proposed program.
8.       Opportunity Costs of Student Time. The opportunity costs of student
time ware assuned to be the sane in the two programs under comparison and
sirnce the objective of this exercise is to canpare alternative uses of
existing premises, opportunity costs of student time ware not included.
9.       Externalities.  As the evaluation of the benefit/cost ratio of the
proposed development of the eight TTCs does not include the positive
externalities which, through increased iworker productivity, will accrue to the
nnnufacturing and export sectors of the econoWn, it understates the full
benefits of the proposed project.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: Present Value in 1985 of Costs and Benefits of Developr,ent of
Eight TTCs for Tedcnician Training, 1984-99 (1983 prices, TL M)
Costs
Additional salaries under TTC progran                                114
Additional costs of nmintenance and
materials                                                            37
Cost of equipsent                                                 5,511
Refurbishnent                                                        92
Expert services for
curriculum developTent                                             208
Expert services for developn-ent
of a management systemn                                            281
Fellowship program                                                 1,033
Total                                                            7,276
Benefits
Incremental wages and salaries earned
by graduates of proposed technician
training centers as canpared with
wages and salaries of graduates of
existing prograns                                                18,168
Relative Benefit of Proposed Program                              2.5



-46-
Arme 5
Page 1 of 3
RER.UC C' IUXEY
INUST IAL IRAINI W.  FCr
S9ET APEPAISAL REE(RT
Tdinical Assista,ce Program for YbK, SEGM ai SIS
I. Comucil for Hier Fucalt-in (YcK)
Icperts                               Fellaships
Tbtal                                    Total
Dzratin    Nl)er of                       Duratin  N.sber of
nzber    Obnths)    Man-rOnths            lNxder    (Wnths)  Manrinths
Pro== am wnUt
12chnical Fducation Plarer                      1          30            30                4            1          4
Fqui,xpot Procurement and
Facilities Plamrer                            1          12            12                 2           1          2
Eminaticns and kcreditation                     1          12            12                2            3          6
lbnitoring, Evaluation and Education
lnma~i~nt                                     -           -1l/         15                10           -1/       22
Sub-total                                    -2/          -            69               18            -         34
Prgrana Developnent                            -            - l/         12                -
Curriculum arni Staff DeveloynEnt
(Izmir and Istanbul)
Control and Instruzmtation (Istanbul)          1           12            12                8            9         72
Gxmunicaticms (Istanbul)                        1          12            12                8            9         72
Industrial Electronics (Istanbul)              1           12            12               16            9        144
EMactrical Engineering (Istanbul)               1          12            12               24            9        216
Jchanical  gineerirg (Izmir)                    1          12            12               40            9        360
A/C and Pefrigeration (kmir)                    1          12            12                8            9         72
Foundry brk (Ianir)                            1            6             6                2            9         18
Agricultural F  ineerirg (Ian;;)                1           6             6                6            9         54
Canputer Scienwe (Istanbul)                     1           6             6                6            9         54
Civil Engineerir  (Izmir)                       1          12            12               14            9        126
Basic  cienre (Iazir)                           1          12            12                8            9         72
ELT (Istarbul)                                  2          12            24                16           9        144
Sub-Totai                                   13            -           138              156            -      1,404
Instructor Traixiix  (Izmir)                   1           24            24                8            9         72
Total                                        -2/          -           243              182            -      1,510
I/ of various duration.
2/ not calculable in view of varyirg nuiber and duration of short-term experts.
Doc. ID No. 1613V



-4 7-                                            hnrnex 5
Page 2 of 3
II. Industrial Training and Developumet Center (SECM)
EBperts                        FellcwshipE
Tbtal                                Total
Duration    Nbmber of                 Duration   Numxber  of
Nimber    (Months)    Man-Months       Nunber   (Months)   Man-lMths
Organization, Developnent and Planning
of National Industrial Training System
Industrial Training Systems Planner                   1          24           24            2           2          4
Marpcxwer Ecomnist                                     1         12           12             2          2           4
Industrial Training (technician level)                1          12           12            4           2           8
Training Standards and Accreditation                   1         12           12             3          1           3
Finance, Mlnagemnt and Information Systems            -              1        12             5          1           5
Sub-Total                                           -2/         -           72           16           -         24
Pogran Developnent
General 1Ynaggent Training                            1          12           12            6           3          18
Production Managenmt Training                         1          12           12            6           3          18
Training of Trainers                                   1         12           12             8          3          24
Training Materials Production                          1         12           12             1          3           3
English for Special Purposes                          -           - 1/        12            4           3          12
Sub-Tbtal                                           - 2/        -          60            25           -         75
Industrial Training Facility                          -           - 1/       20             -           -
Pre-Investnat and Feasibility Studies                 -           - 1/        12            -
Total                                               - 2/        -          164           41           _         99
1/ of various duration.
2/ not calculable in view of varying nuTber and duration of short-tenm experts.
Doc. ID No. 1613V



-48-                                   _    5
Page 3 of 3
III. State Institute of Statistics
Fellwship Progran
Total
Nmber of
Department                    Subject                        mnrba    Duration    Mrrtns
(MDnths)
Eccnanic Statistics           Manufacturing industry            3          3            9
Constnrction                      3          3           9
Trade                             4          3           12
Forestry, Fishery & Husbandry     3         3            9
Agriculture                       2          3            6
1         5            5
Transportation                    3          3            9
1         5            5
Price Indre~s                     6          3           18
2         6           12
Industrial Production             5         3            15
2         6            12
lbor and  ges                     2          3            6
Research                      Input-Outptt Data                 3          3            9
1         6            6
GN and Ntional Accounts           3          3            9
1         6            6
endmical Operations           Progrnarg & Syztexem Analysis     4          6           24
DPC fMnagement                    4          3           12
Census Geography                  2         12           24
Total                                                        55          -          217
Doc. ID No. 1613V



-49-                                     Annex 6
Table 1
1CPUBJC CF TUR1Y
NSUTRIAL TRAffl PRQJECr
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projected Earollrmnt in Technician Training Certers by Main Subject
Subject           Antalya Cankiri ]Iizce Iskenderun  Istanbul Izmir Kirikkale Konya Total
Electrical
Control and
instnentation    30         30     30       30         30      30      30      30    240
Coimmnications      30       30     30       30         30      30       30     30    240
Industrial
electronics        30       30      30      30         30      30       30     30    240
Electrical
ergineerirg        60       60      60      60         60      60       60     60    480
iy-chanical
Me~chanical
engineering        90       90      90      90         90      90       90     90    720
Air conditioning
& refrigeration    30       30      30      30         30      30       30     30    240
Foundry tedmology  -         -      -        30         -       30      -       -       60
Agricultural
ergineering        -        -       30      30         -       -               30      90
Construction
Technology         30       30      30      30         -       30       30     30    210
Comater
Prograrming        30       -       -       -          30      30       -      -       90
Total              330      300    330      360        300    360      300    330   2,610
1/ All students will, in addition to their main subject, take courses in ccmputer use, math,
basic science, tecmical drawing and English language.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFFk APPRAISAL REP)RT
EstinEted Expansion of Industrial Technician Traing Programs, Cuncil for Higher Education (YioK) 1/
Eight Technician Training Centers for Which Bank
SpSU port Requested - - - -          -Additional Centers Planied - - - - -    -          Total- - - - - -
By Government
Academic Year   Grade I       Grade 2        Total      Graduates     Grade 1 Grade 2 Total       Graduates      Enrolhnent    Graduates
1986/87          1,020                       1,020                                                                1,020
1987/88         1,020           980         2,000                                                                2,000
1988/89          1,300         980           2,280        940         2,600            2,600                     4,880           940
1989/90         1,330         1,250          2,580        940         2,600    2,500   5,100                      7,680          940
1990/91         1,330         1,280          2,610      1,200         2,600    2,500  5,100       2,400          7,710         3,600
1991/92         1,330         1,280          2,610      1,230         2,600    2,500   5,100      2,400          7,710         3,630
1/ A dropout rate of 4% is assumed for grades 1 and 2.
H >



-51-                 Annex 6
Table 3
RaPBLIC CFUM
NUSMIRAL IRAINM  P POE
STAF APPRAISAL  CrOU
Requirements for Trained Instructors by Main Subject
Subject Areas                                       Teacher Requirernents
C-nm Subjects
Criputer applications                                         8
ivaths                                                      8
Basic science                                                 8
Te ilical drawing                                             8
English language                                              8
Specialist Subjects
Electrical;
Control and instrunentatiac                               8
Commicaticxs                                              8
Industrial electronics                                   16
Electrical ergineerirg                                   24
Yechanical:
MJchanical engineering                                   40
Air conditioning and refrigeration                        8
Foundry technology                                        2
Agricultural ergineering                                  6
Constructicn                                                 14
Conputer programiig                                           6
Total                                                   172



-52-               kmex 7
REPU1BLIC OF TLRY
mISERIAL IRAINl& PRECr
STAFF APFRAISAL REP(RT
Area and Cost Per Place for the Techician Training Centers
Gross
Area    Costs in US4 (mid 1983 prices) per place
(sq.m.)    Construction Furniture Equipment Total
Technician Training
Centers (TTCS)  _            12.0 1/        200 3/       -     6,500    6,700
Bank-wide experience
(78-80) for cnperable
facilities 2/
First decile              18.2         9,515        810     6,900   17,225
Second decile             15.2         6,640        685     5,450   12,775
1/ A mininun net area of 5 sq.m. per trainee place in laboratories,
classroons and workshops will be provided. By estinating recqired
auxiliary areas (3.5 sq.m./place) and grossing for walls and circulation
(40%), total gross area per training place is estimtated at about 12.0 sq.m.
2/ US$ figures have been inflated to mid-1983 price levels to m3ke
comparisons with the proposed ITCs.
3/ Minor refurbishment of existing facilities.



TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Sunaarg Account by Project Component
(T. LIRA Million)
COUNCIL. FOR HIGHER EDUC ( YOK IIND TRG3 I DEV CENTER (SEGEM)
---  - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -    - - - -- - -- -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - STATE   INST    OF
TECHNICIAN    MANAGEMENT    CURRIC. AND   FUTURE                    NATIONAL                                FUTURE                 STATISTICS                  Physical
TRAINING      SYSTEM FOR        STAFF       PROJECT  INCREMENTAL IND TRO        PROGRAM      INDUSTRIAL   PROJECT INCREMENTAL-------                       Contingencies
CENTERS ( 110 TECHNICIAN ED DEVELOPMENT   D EVELPMNT  RECURRENT  SYSTEM (DEVELOPMENT (CONSULTANCY IDEULMI   RECURRENT   STATISTICS (
(120 1         130 1        (140)   COSTS (150)  210 1         220 1           230 1       (250)  COSTS (260)       310 )       %Lal       I    A.out
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
RENOVATIONS OF EXISTING BUILDINGS             121.96               --                        -                                     --                      -                                 121,96 10.0    12.20
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                            121.96               -              -          --                     ---                                    -                            -    121.96 10.0    12.20
D. EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                                   5P499.03           8.05               -          -- 218.62                             --                      ---5,725.70 10.0   572.57
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                            5,49.03             8.05              -          -- 218.62                             -              -        ---  5,725.70 10.0   572.57
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FELLOWSHIPS                                         -         24.47       1,044.99           -            -    17.27          53.98               -        --156.17  1,296.88 10.0   129.69                                       Ul
SPECIALISTS                                         -        226,97         671.03       39.47            -   236.83         197.36           65.79   39.47             --  1,476.93 10.0   147.69
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         -         251.44       1,716.02      39.47            -   254.11          251.34          65.79   39.47             -         156.17  2,773.81 10.0   277.38
D. INCR. REC. COSTS
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE                               -                     -                  -        71.35         -              -              -        -       557.00               -    628.35 10.0    62.04
Sub-Total INCR. REC. COSTS                                                           -          -        71.35         ---                                            557.00               -    628.35 10.0    62.84
Total INVESTMENT COSTS5620.99-                           259.48----  1-- 716.02--  3----47 -- 1--3--    472.73-          251.34----      65.79----    39.47-  557.00---      156----1--  9--249.82 10.0   924.98-
Total BAEINVESMN COSTS                             5,620.99          259.48       1,716.02      39.47        71.35   472.73         251.34           65.79   39.47        557.00         156.17  9,249.82 10.0   924.98
Physical Contingencies                            562.10           25.95         171.60       3.95         7.14    47.27           25.13           6.58    3.95         55,70          15.62    924.98  0.0        0.00
Price Contingenvcies                             1,788.36          19.81         454.81       5.97        29.28   114.37           41.42          20.06    5.97        210.86           26.01  2,746.91  9.1   249.72
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 7,971.45         335.24       2,342.43      49,39       107.76   634.37          317.89          92.42   49.39        823.56          197.90 129921.72  9.1 1,174.70
Taxes                                               15.52              --                        --                     --                                                  --                    15.52  9.1       1.41
Foreigin Exchange                               7.047.97          286.55       2,119,01      41.58            - 585.84            276.04          77.81   41.58             -190.28 10,696.66  9.1   972.42
--  - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - -
March It 1984 09143



-54-                        Annex 9
Schedule 1
_ ____                              IF_   -t 
a    _ 1                                                    I
E4 _                   - __ ___I _I__
_tC              __           _  _   _  ___  _____ l.
i~~~~ _ w  =___                      PI
tt N  I  I      ~~i 1.         I         I 
$~~    _-
a~~~~~~, $                        -



-55-             Amex 9
Schedule 2
REPLIELIC CF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL 'IRAININ ERJECr
STAFF APPRAISAL REP(T
Estirsated Schedule of Disbursenents
Disbursenaat Profile a/
Regional
IBRD fiscal              Disbursements             This   average in
year and            Sieester  (Xulative         project  education b/
semester           -(4us$ million)-
1985
1st                 0.6        0.6              2.0          1.9
2nd                 0.8         1.4              3.8         3.8
1986
1st                 1.7        3.1              8.4          6.8
2nd                 1.8        4.9             13.3         10.8
1987
1st                 3.7        8.6              23.4        16.0
2nd                 4.9        13.5            36.7         22.3
1988
1st                 4.5        18.0            48.9         29.5
2nd                 4.6        22.6            61.4         37.3
1989
1st                 4.9       27.5              74.7       45.4
2nd                 3.7       31.2             84.8         53.6
1990
1st                 3.7       34.9             94.8         61.5
2nd                 1.9       36.8             100.0        69.2
a/    The profile shows cumulative disburserents in percentages.
b/    The profile was constructed using historical data from 34 projects
during the period FY71-81, accelerated by 5% to eliminate "long
tails."  The disbursenmt profile of this project is significantly
shorter than the regional average because the project contains
practically no civil works- corrmr source of delay in past projects.



TURKEY
THE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION (YOK)
OrganIzatIon Chart
President
The Council of Hisgher Education
(YOK)
Technician       Vice President           Vice President                Director of                                    tdn eeto 
|8llrelcnhno Unlt    |  | (Int6l  VcR fars)           Public Rlb tl8 Cn  Member
SeouclMeted  s by6 Council Members                 2 Council Members        I Council Member            CunlectMembyter
Selected by             Selected by                Selected by the          Selected by the           lnter Unbiersith
President p    the       the Cabinet               Ministry of Education      Chlef of Staff           Inter Uncvorsity
I~~~~~~~~~~                                    
I Secretary General
Asltn               Assistant||       ;   ;;7                         AdviXsoy Units
Secretary Gnera                    Secretary General
Main Units                       Supplementary Units
a. Directorate of                a. Directorate of Coordinatlon               Office of
Education/Training           . b. Directorate of Administratlon          Legal Counsel
b. Directorate of Planning       c. Directorate of Construction         _      _    _
c, Dlrectorate of Research                                                                                                            c 
d. Dlrectorate ot Budgets                                                                                                               (D
& Investments                                                                                                                        x
e. Directorate of Library 
& Documentation                                                                                                                       o
f. Dlrectorate of Data
Processing                                                                                             World Bank-25663



TURKEY
Technician Training Unit, Council for Higher Education (Y6K)
Proposed Organization of Management System for Technician Training Centers
President,
Council for Higher
Educatlon
University                                            Dlrector General
Rectors                                               & Director of PIU
Tochnclon                                                                                       PROJECT
Tecrnicing                                                                                      IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Training.
Institutes                                                                                         Accountant
Procurement Speclalist
Flnonce 8 fcllt  2                                      Curricuium & 2                  Teacher 2                   Industry & 2
Administration                 Fanner                   Teacher Training               Recrultment &                   University
Offticer                    Franner                 Development Unit               Placement Unit               Relations Office
(Ankara)                    (Ankara)                       (Izmir)                     (Ankara)                      (Ankara)
Engiish Language2
& Curricula
Development Unit
(Istanbul)
Estabilshed.                                                                                                                                                  iS
2To be established by September 30, 1984.                                                                                 World Bank-25186
rt r
0 



TURKEY
ORGANIZATION OF THE INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER (SEGEM)
Manoalnaag Bood
I             --IRu
b~~~~~~~~~~~~ea Ao__s
Aaistunt Dlrector                          A               l                                   Assistant Drrractr 
(I_hnta /hlo)                     io~~~~~~roiect                                        Gekmhtneral
|  IndustrialGeneall
(Tcncl AfIrs                                 Corin_ to
Industrial       CMhchenmi icol                             Electricoal       Mtallurgicol          Indusfal
Enginewring          n    rin           Engineering         EngineeringE               ring   |       snarnunt
Accounting Es   ...'onnt .H  uPpornt
C)
World Su0nk - 25`185



TURKEY
ORGANIZATION OF STATE INSTITUTE FOR STATISTICS
O f 95s
i Econoc StatsstPic4s  |neDtrsid                                                                                                 o
indicatIonS   Census                    Fin~~ Res arce                                          Adinstatotcntrrene
| Department                                                                     ]     |        (enr
|    Econornic&  |   ff    88EcrK_ni  1                         i |          Social                                      PublicatdOns
Social  Rosearch       Social Accounts                Stsor c            Poul  Statistics                                   Census oneophy
ProductIon     InternatIonal             tranpot _eoIaphIcifry
iDen>o raphy            hndustoai Accounts         Fofeign Twade             Justice
Econornics              indications                Prlces                    Education
Indications              Census                    finance                   Culture
Social                   Srocioi Accounts          Labor                     Population
i'roductlon              Intemautlonal             Transport                iDeorcKipohkc
International            Research                  Agriculture               ToudriS
Archive                  EducatIon                 Forestry & Fishing
input/Cutput              Industry
Mining
Constructlon
Wor1d Bank - 251i4
rD
CD



-60-                                                                       Annex 11
COMPAAATIVE! EDtUCATION INDICATORS                                                              Page    1   of   2
FENRRARY 16, 1996
OR EDUCATION  RECL'RRENT           ADULT                                         LIEPO  N Ir cosT IpRocitess1oN1
01NP PER                AS PERCENT        EXP n.ITURES   LITERACY   RIAR 1       P.1 I9AEY7  POl RIMflY   PRIMARY    SRATE. PROM       EcoNDAR   SEODR   HIIREE
BASE  POP.  CAPITA   PERCEIT GONP TOTAL CYENTAL ALLIOCATED) TO: RATE                 ENROLL.  CROOL          STUDENTS EDCTO            SMARY 73EROL X TUYNSrr                 E.?OL'L.
YEAR MILLS. (05$)   DEVOTES TO  OOVERN3'ENT              PEl  sic  Hi        (1)      RLATIO    CYCLE        P.ER       AS PERCENT SICONDA1Y    RATIO             PER         RATIO
(1979) (1979)    EDUCATION   EX?ENDOTURE                 (I)         (1976)    (2 )          (0)       TEACREE   GN?/CAPITA          (i)         (1)       TEACR.    It
(1)      (2)          (3)             (4)              5              6         (7)   j ()               9)          (10)           (11)         (12)         (13)       14)
DEVELOPED COUNTIES
AUSTRTALIA            NO0    14 6b  8,870          6.3'         14.6           -    -                        10331       100          21         -                99           73          13        20.90)
CANADA                81     23.76   9,6)0b        7.74         19.3'!        30'!  34'? 23'?    990         106'x       100          21         19.9'?         100            92'        19        22.60'
GERMIANY 7.R.         79     61.2   12,200         4.6           9 9.0        -     --   -         99b        899        100'         -          -              190'           94'        -          12.10'
SITPERI..ANSS  ~79      14.0   10,490        7.9            5.1         20    25    25       99b?        96         95           1s         15.3            99           82          13        12.40
NEw ZEALAND           99       3,26   6,2916       5.9          13,4          37    31    28       96        190        105           26         11.6           100            92          13       25.80'.
SWEDE N               79      8.3  12,250         9.0           18.2          31    10    10       996        99x       100           19'        19.9           100            79'        IC&'      56.30'!
E-ASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWJANA             80       3.gb      7201,    6.3p          19.3          69    28    1s       35b        94          76          32         32.0            33".          70         19          1.30
BURUNDI               A1      4.2       235       2,8b.         19.0          43    28    27       23         29'X        33          37         20.2             12            2'        17          1.00
COMOROS               00       9,.46     260      6.91          25.4          60    396   14       --         99'         65          45         16.0             39           21'        30          1.40
"ISIO TI              81      0.)       460       5.4           17.8          60    40    . ..    10          32          --          61         --              60             A         19          0.30
OTNRIO pIA            Al     32.0b       l4ob     2.9P          30.7          45    23    20       53         62          12'         63         60.0            93'           14          46         0.45
KENIYA                79      153.       3991     5.QW          18.0h         71    15    14       45         92          74          40         10.0            41            19         29          1.00
LSOUTHO               92       1.46t    433b      3.3           16.9          30    32    26        336      116'        41           49          9.6            46            31         21          1.30
KADACASCAR            77       0.0       330      4.0'          24.0          53    28    19       30         94b'        33          ssb          9 .0           38           14         23          3.10b!
MALAWI                01       6.1b      233Q      3.0          11.41         38    14    23       336        62          23          63           3.R            12            6         21          9.40
,IAUR IT IUS          60      1*q ib,1nob         6.0           11.)          39    40      7      90         87          78          336        17.1            79            45'        21         7.40
.WANDA                80       5:o       28006    3.2           21.1          62    17    11       336        37'         62          40         I&.              6             4'        13         0. 49r
SRYC8ELZS             79      0.6    1.770        5.9           22.4'         34'   33'   1'       --         ---        ---          25          ---                          ---        ---       --
SOMALIA               81       4.5t     290       1.9           10.0          5ob  4.o6   66       50         336        806          396         ;.46          .90-           126        22          1.90
SUDAN                 80     ig          3606     3.0           -             66    39    .. .    32          51"2       68           36           1.4           44            16         16          .
SWAZILAND             90      0.6        760      7.9           19.0          41    34    13      6,56        79          so          34         11.2            a8            376        is         3.10
TANZIANIA             s0o      8.        260       0.9          17.7          47    t0    16       796        996         97          43         11.0             196            2        20'         0.30
UGANDA          00      12.66      3006       -            16.1'         336  376    3       49          34'        61           36         -               17             3         23         0.60
ZAIV                  70     27.        210'      6.0'          22.0         .49    26    25       15         94!        46           62'        -               41            13'        27         I1.106b7
ZA.'ISIA   90       3,76    ~~~~~      ~~5646  4,57   11.1          68    23    22       446        93         80           49         12.9            19            16         22         1.50)
ZIMBABWE              St       7.76      7006     5,1           19.)          62    32     6       446        90         55           29         20.0            83            13         23         0.30
WESTER AFRItCA
RENIN                 70      3.4b      3336      6.5w          33.0          43    21            116ii       42         30           46         14.0            30            11         43         1.007
CAMEROON              70      A.3        590      2.9!          16.0y         33'   43'  20 -Y                747        4)'          507        1 1. '          20'           147        26          1. 307
C.A.R.                79       2.2      290       3.8'7         20.6"                              -          --         ---          659!       --              --            ---        --         9.79'!
GOAD                  76       4.4       120       3.4b"!       21.76                             is          01!           7                    -7               --            3'!       01         0.307
00510                 79       1.5      670       9.0-"y        27.74!                                        -                       5467                       30            -          436!       4.00'!
'ABI                  7 7      3.6    3.420        3, 767        0.67               -- -           -           -          -           49b                        --             1--          6!b      3.800'
2A2C981A              77       06        220       3.2".          6.56        66    23'    6'    106          4067       90           3767       4...7'          60            12bz7      17          -
IPANA       76     11.3       ~~~~      ~~~4100  4.07  13.56         -                              761                     27-!-                                               231  
GU i:NEA              7'       3.3       290 5    4.6'1         --            25'   2A'   29'&   20           34         36           38         20.0'!          03            16         29          7.00'
1906! COAST          01       a,2b   1,070b    10.0            40.0          33    46    13      306          60         96          43         26.0             47           l5"w        26         1.90'!
LIBERIA               90       1.9      520       4.6           19.6          43    23    24      30          52          52          35         20.0            76            22         20          2.90
'-ALI                 RI       7.06      190       4.2'         31.7'         38    21    It      19          203         60          44         10.7            46              1         it         3.60'!
4AURITAXIA            78       1.66      3206      3,5          16.9          33    43    25       7          32         60           44         53.0            30             9         'A          0.37
50006                 79       3.2       300       4.3'!        16.6'!        32'   43'    3'      9           1 7        56'         41'        39,7'            40            2         346        0 205
NIGCERIA              77     92.6       910       4.1!           9.6-                                        --         ---          -- --  -                     -           10'        25          N. I-,7~
SENEGAL               77       3.        43         .0          23.0          46    34    20      19         * 41                                 -               0            10         21         2.20k
SIERRA LEONE          77       3.       200       4 0b          16.Ob         -       -   -      13b         37' -                   35         3536b           84            15'        12          9.696b!
TOGO                  70       2.6'      400       6.)5'        26.5q         70'   20'   21'    19           74          40          346!       3930            52            3361!      496         1.60b!
UPPER VOLTA           70       3.6       I80       3.0".        19.3'y        31    16    32      -           1)67       23           336!       32.37           19             3b.3!    23          0.02!
LATIN AMERICA AND TH! CARIESEAN
ARCONTISA        78--r   ~27 .3 ~2,210        2.7          10.9          43'  31'   18'&   936           49          52          17                         8 7           31           9       23.00
BAFAMAS         79       0.2    2,779)       5.7           19,1         36    36    11      934          N9         97          26                          9'g           75         19        -
BARAADO3              78      0.2    3,680        83"'!1        22.1'         43'  31'   16'    956          17OY        99'          27!        19.9'           99'           797        20Y       --
BOLI 'JIA             III      5.4       330      4.1'!         30.5'         -     --   --    63             74!        -            307        -               -             13Y        -         12.60Y'
3NAlL                79    116.5    1,770         3.S           6.2          SI          14      76          73'!       -            23A7        4.56           61'           iS'!       14'!      12.626
CHILE                 76      10.9    1,990        3,26!        13.Ob         -        -   -                 110lgb-     -            3467                                     5561!      Zoby      1l.9go'b
COLO.SIA              80     26.7b   1,1806        3.3          23.0          35    20    20      916         79         36           32          6.6            -             47         20        10.02'!
COSTA RICA            90       2.2b    I1,9I0     8.6           31.1          40    27    33      913         93         77           33           3.5           77            40         27        14.00
CORA                  79        .                   .           11.0          ---  --   ---    96            11261b!     99           .39!       -               98            71617      13        19.02b7
DOMINICAN REP.        00       3.3    I' 030      2.8           13.0          s92o2 96                        0          31           50          3.2            94            30         32        16.10
ECUADOR               90      8,4b  1,1110        6.0!          36.7          43    31    16      91         103         --           36         12.6             86           47         16        29.00
EL SALVADOR           77       4.4       640       3,4b!        23.1by        64     8   27       62          9261!      32           39         -               40            266b!      376!        7.906!
G2ATLNA0..            70       6.4    1,010        1.7'7        12.66         --   --   --        -           6961!      --           336,       -               69            13b.7      196!        3'0'O
GtrYANA               76       0.5       630       9.16!        13.80!Y       -    --   -          -          956b!      -            32b!       -       ~       -             3961!      -           3.206!
RAI TI                s0       5.O      230       3.4'           ?,9'!        65     9     6      236         30         30           41         19.0            62'            4.        27         0.80
qNONOOSA              78       3.4       320      3,7b'        114.3b!        62'   13'   19'    60           996b7      30'          41by       12.8'           68'           311!       19         8.)O
7AKAICA               00      2.1    1.110        6.3           13.7         37    43    20      90           98         99           40          2.3            95            81         22         9.00
MEXICO                90     65.3    1,980        o.7           17.0'         46    39   115      92          99         53           44          9.5            06            56         17        10.30
NICARAGUA             70       2.66    610         3 ob          4            -     --   -        sob         S5bz       24           376                        -             26b'       36        -
PANAMA                79       1.06   I,330,       5.b361!      21.06!        42'  13'  13        82b         936!       -            23b7       11.6            93'           506!       276!      20.4067
PARAGUAY              79       3.0    1,140        1.4'-        14.2          42    17    20      04          03         32           Zs          3,1r            '6           2          12         0.70
VYR                 00      16.6    100          3.6          14.3          53    IS5   19      s0          63         56           39           9.9            99           39         22         14.407
TXINIDAD 4 TOE.   77     1.      391         4,67            0.6        49    32    00      93           99         91.         39          10.37           419          62          24        --
ZEOGOAT               78      2.9    2,500        2.3            9,4b         - -   -     -       qi,        10b         -            246                         -             4b6        --       17.so'!
09V7E0.AIE            70     14.4.   3,440         3.17         16.96               --   --    02            109b.       --           20           -                           3gb.       17        21.137



Annex 11
CoRPIAT2VI! !DOCATIOON 1INDICAT0RS                                                          Page   2   of   2
nIRUAMY 16, 1994
REUREN    &D(TmL FRUIT COST  PROGJ.ESSI(f
C"               I~~~AS PEICEUT    J!X ENDITnES  LlITItACT PRIM)ARY PRIOAR!y    PRIMARt!  PRIMARY             RATE  "OM(    SC.ATEC0TAR" RIC-MER
SASS  Plop   CAPITA   p981188   G? 0?TO.TAL C7ITSLAL ALLOCATZO TO  tA3T.           ENROLL. SC180OL        STOnpVS EDUCATION R IMARY6 TO  ENROLL.1.  IST31NT6   EKR0LL.~
61.8  ILL;. (US")   D80T1D TO                                              (3)PR     ECH    9LA1I0   CLE   Pt        AS P71C!97 SrCOYMASY    RATT'3           PER         RATIO
(1979   (1919     SCATTO   1!XPE801TUhWZ                z          (1976)    (2           ~         TACERC                                    (3)PTA (t   TIACI9ER    (23
(1)      (2)         (3)             (6)             (5)           (63        (7)         (9)( 1)(1
1.65f AStA A"P 19  PACZ?TC
CHINA4                9-- 96.0b         300b     3.6            8.3         36    39   27        69b        90        63           23          7.0           72            39         17         3.70
ZYWNESIA            at   150.06        520      2.1            9.3         70   26      6       326        96         61          37         11.0            74           27         26         3.70
KOREA           8~~2    39.3b  1,636b       7.7'         20.8          36    34    31.     96         99         99          43         19.0            99           96         38        21.90
'IAS.AYSIA  *   91    ~~14.2b   1.7        .             2            2     7     s       0          69        97          22          12.2'          97            t9          9         3.7CA      -
nAkPUA N.r,.         79       2.9       760      5.4'          16.4'        -     -     -        -          6260       73          31          1.1           -             12h.       23       -
?R ILIP7INES         79      .8.1b      6906     2.6'          16.0         64    36oa--        756        86         65           31          7.1           89            i5         36       21.00
51760APORE           90       2.4    6,420       2.7            6.7         39    40    16       93        92         92           31          9.9           96            59         22         9.00
SOLO"909 ISL.        so       0.2       460      4.2P'         10.0         41    34    20      -          60         s0           26         -              35            LS         ---      --
76AILA6D             90    417.3b       7236     3.4           20.9         59    15    13       966        96        -            1.7         9.3           59            29         23         409o
SOU7TH ASIA
iZAOOLAOKS6          79      92336       90       l.tp         10.1'7       51    17    20       336        637       -            53          5.6                         14         23         1.43
INDIA                77    659.6       210       2.97          9.957       -     -     -        36         79'        -           411         -       -                   29'-       -          R. 30C'
4EPAL                82      13.06      1506     1.4         -.             -     -     -        19        70         -            38        ---      -                   21         23          0.70'
PAKISTAN             79      79.7       270      3.0'!          3.17        39    26    27       26         56,       9-           48          6.5           51            2nx        17         (.00
=110 SY 10JD1. EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFCSANISTA9     77i    15.5       -         1.7           3.7         47    19    1)       12         3tby       69          376        -               62            9         22b!       1.0o7
ALGERIA1             79      18.3    1,770       3.9'          12.3         34'  26'  20'        35         937       45'          37          7.0?           5)a          397        26         3.707
107??                91     45.06       506b    3.1"            4.3         31'  35'  36'        66        94'        90'          34          Q.9.          n3-           43         19       15.00'
199911!              76       9.3    4,160       2.6.          10.66        37    26    21      -           9767        -          2b          6.27          -             79a         767     17.906!
IRAN9                79      36.9      -         5.78!        14.i'y        -     -     -       50        101"I       -           328        -               -            44".       26'        4.90'!,
1960                 79      12.6    2,710       4.387          6.98!       -     -     -       -         100y        -           29                 -                     4.5'!     29'        9.30'!
19IRELAND            91       3.4b  4.480        6.3'y        11.9'So      -      -     -       99         93         94          29         -               98           81         14        11.00
!iOUAN               91       2.26   1.420b      4.9w         10.2          19    44    19       7Qb      109'        95           32          7.2           91            92'        25        10.00
LEBANON              79   2.3    -               -            19.6"1               --           -          96'        -            19        -               --           46X        --    27.90-
NOR1OCCO             90      195        740      6.3"-         17,3'        36   44    20       I9          56"       35           39         19.7           40            3'5        21         41.50
OMAN1                92       0.96   5.920b      2.3".         12.7'        -     -     -       3067       71'        65           23         8-              6            it         14
P091006AL            79       9.8h  2.060        3.6          22.2          50    29i   11      79         97         20           19'        12.9           99A          451        '7'          .30Q
ROWAIA               78      22.1    2,130       3.9b!          6.2y        -     -     -       99        106b'       -            23b                       98           940.       2b        10.60b'7
SPAIN                76      37.0    4,930       2.17         16.Ry         -     -     --      -          99b!       -           296                        -            676!       -         24.1007
SYRIA4               78       9.6    1,170       4.4P         10.3          39    25   26       59         976!       so          3!6        --              6            416!       216       121.60
ruNrsIA              79       6.     1,a         7.0           19.0         42    39    Ls      626       100'x       R0           396       12.0            30           30 2A       0         0.00
10567                II       6.76   1.4,606     5.1,         26,2          -     -     -       736       116'        90'         28           7.9           31            38a       20         61.70
16398  A.R.          9        6.9       420      5.07'         12.0         96     7     7      336        37         12'          397        67.0           935            3         20         1.10
.'639!79 7.0.9.  2      2.0b      4206      7.6           9.7         63'   144    0'      53         61         34          23         2.'            46            17         20.3
SUMMARY FOR 7777L09P01  107(17635:
Numenr of Coun,tries:                        96                 96       70    69   67        76         98         64          94         62              72           91         96        93
Range:                                        (1.4-             3.7-   (19-  (7-   (3-       (9-       (10-      (12-          (17-       (11.1-          (6-          (21-       (9-       (31.01-
10.0)           65.0)  04)    46)   36)        99)       '19)      093           77)        67.0)           9.)          84)        403)      2q.()
Qoartila.: Upper:                              5.6            20.9        52    55    31      90         96,        79          42         20              95           45         23        10.6
(ledis,,:                         4.0            15.5       43    27    19       32         R3         60          35         12              61           23         21         3.7
Lou.. :                           2.0             10.0      17    10   13        24         ( 6        2)          27          7             407           13         19I        1.0
76,8rtlle Oe-l.tlo-                            1.1              5.1     7.5  9.0  4.0    23.3          20.0       22.5         7.5        6.0           22.5          13.5        9.)         4.9
H.as:                                          4.5             16.L      46    39    19       53         75         60          36        116              60           31         31         6.9
itandard Deviation,;                           1.9              7.4      13    10      7      30         26         25          11         13              27           23          7         7.4
M.di-n                                         4.0             15.3      43   29    19        53         02         61          0)                         Al6          35         22         3.,
SUNSBOLS:                                                             FOOTNOTES:
D ATUM UNAVAIL.A9LE                                                  A- 7A-.'6 PRI0R 70 960! '?AR                                   - 41010797 OP IDUC1AT120 (MOO) C!SLY
..   9AGNt7UfE NIL 'P. 700LICI3LLO                                  AI  OATU717  6097F RECENT 794A6 BASE (A                       7    - 0  A42(0 STAT! 20VE9399(3  ONL.Y
DATUM13  Oi!S17OPABLE                                               9 - CURRFENT PRICES                                          W  -L'79L17  EXPR3t7U97 O9NLY
INCLUDES9 ?ART-TLM! ST00NST                                        P. GDP                                                      0 - 15017D17  777R-AGE ST70ENTS
7' - 767111  S09RCES
roLumn  I  nd 2:  World N3-k Atla, or 390   lnRD             .
C,olumn.  3 to 14:  IS80 et-aone, rovermentz so-r-ce. andr Onasco. Statsr1c.1 'e..rhook.
C:oseeratl-  Eductatloi  Deta are ...f.1 L. the evaluation of variouS education nylot                   and analysis of relati-e staes of ed ... iOn.1 fv-ne-et hetween  -rious
coun tries.  9o-e-r,..o the hasls of the present data, crn-5toe    wprnnshould be approachehd with areat  -oion.   ')ata presen.ted4 In the Short table h.,.
been collected iarRely b7 Bank  i.siOns frmi goveroamat sources; the reselnder are  taff estimates or dat. (roe Une..c..  Efforts  ta... Seen,                            d td. n  stnd-rdize
definitions and,.1wthin limits, to ch..k the  eurc  of the data..Ovrhie,ec  date  -r  still Leperfect In  --erl res pects and the Rank L.  -okloq to
Impr... th-  prgeaiaWo  th. otcasioe of its operational work.. In roe u... of th... data,  t,h. fo.o1                           n  qa-1latcn   should 6. kept in  .InA:
(1)  'Eduocation' aa defined in th. table includes ail od.coti.. und training, hotS f-1,a  .n-I nfrml
(2)  'Primary  educa.tion refers to education at the firet level aed  nsecondary  education refere  to all education at the  -ec..dary l1elrgadls   of t7ope
(e9,generai, te,chnical, agricult.tr.1).
(3)  'Literacy rates.  (col. 6) are often obtained fr.. country- ceeaes..e.   in neal coun.tries they are  -n0y aoprouaaieatn  sd it 11a doubtful that anyon.r
definition of '11tnr-te  h.. hen  followed co...             ncy
(6)  'Public expenditure, in edn...tio.' (.oIl. 6 and 5) refers tn al1 capital and recurrent expenditure. devted to educatioe by publicn and qaaei-p.blic
agen,cies.
(3)  'Tnral1sen,t reati.      (cl.   7, 12 .ed 14) refer to  -chool year and are the p-rretage  of  ligibil  ohildren enrolledfulla  in the approprinte echool,
public and private by leI.. .  The! are often subject to a wide tergin of error .10 the develping coun.tries cebi.  tO  carltlonas In the actor.,! of baaIc
data (i.e..  aeseiicppito  and  -nroilents(.  Enrolleent figrara   frequently ar  higher than the  -uber of students actualIly in 'choni.  Over-sged
students uesoe...     uSo   is indi-catd SY footnote. also can lofiote -h. r-tio..



-62-                   Annex 12
1REPMIC CF TU:Y
NUSfLAL IAINIb PROJECT
SvAFE  APPRAISAL  REU
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
I3RD                                    Turkey:  Industrialization and Trade
Strategy (February 1982)
Paer & Energy                            RepLrt on Manpower Training in  :EK
Developnent Division                     (mimeoaip, February, 1983)
Industrial Development                  Turkey, Idustrial Sector Strategy
& Finance Division                     P        (February, 1983)
State Institute of Statistics           Census of Population, Social and
Econanic Characteristics of Population
1% Sample Results, (Ortober, 1980)
Union of Chanbers of Conmerce,           Ecomnic Report (1982)
Industry, Maritime Camnerce &
Comnodity Excchanges of Turkey
TUSIAD (tlukish Industrialists          The Turkish Econcmy, 1982 (1982)
& Businessmen's Association)
Mashayekhi, A.                           Shadow Prices for Project Appraisal in
Turke, World Bank Staff Working
Papers No. 392 (May 1980)
Education and  Mnpower
Developnent Division                   Working Papers
Education and Manpower                   Industrial and Vocational Training
Developnent Division                    Sector Mmmorandum (May, 1983)



I BRD17358
23- M.>                                                   30                                                      33                                                       40                                                         MARCH9784
+,Edirne_<irkBrre irmooL                                                                           Sro                                                                                      .          .R
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                                   40-  -4
GO                                                             Hpo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ojaoo
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                                                        Thtoo        Vo        <"  2 rn : ,  ,-Q0 >z  R A N
doemil                                                                                    Anl kyA e_I
Bndirmo                         Dnkr,aAnomor                                                                                                                    TURKEY
0 .                                                                                 Yr                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJ ECT
35',                                                                                                                              5 Y R  I A N                                                                                                  35
COUNCIL FOR HIGHER EDUCATIONCTO)                                                                                                                                                                                      50
Technc,',nT,o,,onCe,non                                       CYRU                                       A R  A  B
CorrinjIonm DeSe,', onnol L eDenlers '                        Y R
i   M.an',o',en,  Syslem Eor Tecohn <nr Educar on                                                        RE P UB  L IC
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENTI CENTERRSEOFDR)4
Ntolnno Innonlo oI Trnning Sp',Io', 
Prnowurr D',elomE,KOl                                                                                                                  POLAND,
j; STATE INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS                                                                                                          Z:ECH',              U          S            
L,oonolzi SInni,onilc                                                                                                                      _        J
Tnonn,nn Openo'a  on',                                                                                                                    o/               
R',onol, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o
____ROADS                                                                                                                                    =,ROMhANIA t-
s                                                                                     r                                                                             g RAILROADSREUB  
R I V E R S                                                                                                     I-OL                                                                                          R A
(3 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                1>U                               ROP
---INTENTRN OATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                       >  n  r BL'GRI,  ~
0            ISO           200           300                                                                                                            UT                            0iAnkoro                  n{   / 
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                      TlJ  1RIKS)' E                     .s.A M'
0s,, no,o,,noza V0,',U    02000000000,',nTO'nbrmse onOooxlm 0 00',                                       r                                                                                               Y~'  f                  OP
rnSbeRgaSElatEorXn/te30r                                                                      35'eaelsrfetneoUnans                                           CRETE          CYPRUS           ALPR,Ad3 5       Aa(l



