Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No 13865-AR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2793-AR)
January 11, 1995
Public Sector Modernization/Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regionial Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Peso
Exchange Rate (end of period):*
1985        US$1  =      0.00008005
1986        US$1  =      0.0001257
1987        US$1 =       0.000375
1988        US$1  =      0.001337
1989        US$1  =      0.1795
1990        US$1  =      0.5585
1991        US$1  =       1.0
1992        US$1  =       1.0
1993        US$1  =       1.0
* Note: In mid-1985, the peso was changed to the Austral (eliminating three
digits); and in January 1992, the Austral was changed to the peso (eliminating
another three digits).
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANADE    National Development Bank
BCRA         Central Bank of Argentina
BHN          National Housing Bank
BNA          Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (National Savings Bank)
FOPYME    Fund for Small & Medium-Scale Enterprises
IFC          International Finance Corporation
INTI         National Institute of Industrial Technology
PB           Participating Bank
PCR          Project Completion Report
RTAC         Regional Technical Assistance Center
SIGEP        Comptroller of State Companies
SMSE        Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SSME         Sub-Secretariat for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Otfice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 11, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Argentina
Small and Medium-Scale Industry Credit (Loan 2793-AR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Argentina - Small and Medium-Scale
Industry Credit (Loan 2793-AR) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. No
contribution was received from the Borrower.
The main objectives of the Small and Medium-Scale Industry (SMI) Credit Project were
to encourage the modernization, expansion and productivity enhancement of Argentina's SMI sector.
The project involved a loan amount of US$125 million to finance a line of credit, which was channelled
through a second-tier fund within the national development bank, Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
(BANADE); and a technical assistance component aimed at strengthening institutional support for SMIs.
The project was implemented during a particularly difficult period (1988-91) in Argentina
marked by hyper-inflation and severe financial hardship. The macroeconomic conditions, combined
with weaknesses in project design and financial problems in BANADE, undermined the achievement
of project objectives. Demand for the line of credit was weak and there was a lack of interest in the
technical assistance component. However, the project did contribute to developing project appraisal
capabilities in a number of banks.
BANADE's mounting financial problems, which were the result of poor management, lack
of operational autonomy and the impact of worsening macroeconomic conditions, eventually triggered
its liquidation and the cancellation of US$64.2 million of the IBRD loan. The disbursed loan funds
financed 338 subloans, over 70 percent of which were channelled through BANADE. There is no record
of subloan arrears or subloan performance.
The Bank's performance in project preparation and design was poor. Macroeconomic risks
were not carefully identified, the pre-existing weak financial condition of BANADE was never fully
analyzed, and the loan pricing formula was faulty. However, supervision missions were effective in
handling BANADE's unfolding crisis and, following two attempted activations of loan suspension
procedures, were instrumental in eventually convincing the Government to liquidate the bank.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development is rated as
modest and sustainability as unlikely. The PCR is of very good quality. It provides a very candid
assessment of the project's design weaknesses and implementation shortcomings. An audit is not
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
nmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                         l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND NlEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...1... 
A.      Project Identity ................................    1
B.      Background  ..................................   1
The Industrial Sector  ............................    2
The Financial Sector  ............................    2
C.      Project Objectives and Description  ....................    4
D.      Project Design and Organization  .....................    5
Creation of a second-tier mechanism within a main retailer bank
opened the possibility of conflict of interests  ...           ......   5
Oversight of BANADE's problems undermined the loan ...                   ....    6
The use of debt/equity ratios to monitor BANADE's financial
performance was not effective  ..................   6
Loan  pricing and interest rate policy discouraged  usage of the
loan  ..................................   7
Loan  limits and the subloan approval process further hindered
PB's participation  .......  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   8
E.      Project Implementation  .......  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   9
Hyper-inflation undermined the loan's objectives  ..... .              .  .  .  .     .    9
BANADE's financial crisis triggers loan cancellation   ...              .....    9
Other problems triggered by the financial crisis  ..... .            .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Response by PBs and SMSEs to the loan was mixed  .....  .                  .  .     .  13
Reformulation of Technical Assistance   ..... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
F.      Project Results  ........  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Provided medium  and long-term  financing for SMSEs .... .                .  .    .   15
Helped   to  develop   expertise  in  project  financing   among
commercial banks ......................... .  16
G.      Project Sustainability  .......  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
H.      Bank Performance .......  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
I.      Borrower/Executing Agency Performance   ..... .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  18
J.      Project Relationship  .......  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
K.      Project Documentation and Data  ......  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .......                         ...............  21
3.1 Related Bank Loans .21
3.2    Project Timetable  .............................. 21
3.3 Loan Disbursements .22
3.4  Project Estimated (Appraisal) Cost .22
3.5    Project Estimated (Appraisal) Financing .22
3.6  Project Financing Planned and Actual .23
3.7 Project Results .23
3.8 Status of Covenants .24
3.9 Use of Bank Resources .28
3.10   M issions    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    29
ANNEXES
ANNEX I: SUMMARY OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE LOAN .. 30
ANNEX  II: BANADE'S FINANCIAL CRISIS   ........  .                      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
Background   ........................  ......  .....  ..                            .  35
Origins of the Crisis  ..............  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..                .  36
BANADE: Summary of Key Financial Problems ...... .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  36
Response to the Crisis .............  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  .               .  40
ANNEX  III: LOAN STATISTICS   ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                     .  45



- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2793-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and Medium-Scale
Industry Credit Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2793-AR in the amount of US$125
million equivalent was approved on April 14, 1987. The project was implemented during
a particularly difficult period marked by very high inflation and severe financial hardship
for Argentina. The final disbursement was made in November 1991. At the request of
the Borrower, the loan was cancelled in July 1993, about one year ahead of the original
planed loan closing date. A total of US$64.2 million was cancelled over the life of the
loan.
The PCR was prepared by the Public Sector Modernization/Private Sector
Development Division, Country Department I, of the Latin America and Caribbean
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Submission of Part II
by the Borrower is still pending.
In preparation of this PCR, a mission visited Argentina in July 1993 and discussed
the effectiveness of the operation with Governmental officials, with representatives of the
Executing Agency, and with representatives of the participating financial intermediaries
and industrial enterprises that received financing from this loan. The report is based,
inter alia, on these discussions, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND MEDIULM-SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2793-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project Objectives. The project objectives were to encourage modernization, to
strengthen productivity, and increase productive activity by small and medium scale
enterprises (SMSEs), with particular emphasis on employment generation and on greater
economic diversification outside the major urban areas. These objectives were to be
achieved by providing a line of medium- to long-term credit to overcome constraints on
investment financing faced by SMSEs, complemented by a technical assistance program
for SMSEs.  A unit, called the Fund for Medium  and Small Scale Enterprises
(FOPYME) was established within the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo, BANADE), to operate as a second-tier financial intermediary to lend to
commercial banks and BANADE's own first-tier units, for onlending to private sector
enterprises. FOPYME was eventually to become the principal public sector institution
for financing of SMSEs.
2.    The credit line was structured to finance: (a) fixed assets and related permanent
working capital needs of SMSEs, including machinery and equipment (and their
installation costs); building construction, handling and storage facilities; civil works;
quality and pollution control equipment; replacement of obsolete machinery and
equipment; investments for improvement of product, quality and design; and acquisition
of new technologies; (b) free standing working capital needs; and (c) technical and
managerial assistance needs of SMSEs.
3.    The thrust of the technical assistance (TA) component was to: (i) strengthen
BANADE's capabilities to provide assistance to SMSEs and participating banks; (ii)
strengthen the National Institute of Industrial Technology's (INTI) capabilities to assist
SMSEs; and (iii) support the creation of a system of Regional Technical Assistance
Centers (RTACs) for SMSEs by the Commerce Ministry's SMSE Division (SSME).
These funds were to be applied towards training, preparation of studies and purchase of
equipment.
4.    Design and Implementation Experience. The project addressed one of the weak
links in the development of industrial enterprises in Argentina: the scarcity of medium-
and long-term finance for investments by SMSEs. As a result of a long history of
inflation, lending by Argentina's banking system was constrained almost exclusively to



- 111 -
short-term financing. This project, therefore, provided the only medium- and long-term
credit facility available to SMSEs at that time.
5.    The most important design features that affected the outcome of the project were
the following:
*     Creation of the second-tier mechanism within a major retail bank
opened the possibility of connict of interests. One of the principal
design elements of the project was the establishment of FOPYME as a
permanent specialized wholesale banking unit within BANADE to lend to
both private banks and BANADE's own first-tier units, for onlending to
SMSEs. It was expected that FOPYME would become the development
finance vehicle to manage similar future loans from bilateral and
multilateral agencies. The establishment of the second-tier unit within one
of the main retailers of the credit line posed serious conflict of interests
and created the perception of likely bias. Some participating banks (PBs)
felt that BANADE's approval authority gave it an unfair advantage in
processing its own loans.
*     Oversight of BANADE's problems during appraisal undermined the
loan.  Weaknesses in loan preparation were noted in the appraisal's
evaluation of BANADE.  Prior to appraisal, BANADE's financial
problems were widely known throughout the banking industry, although
their magnitude was difficult to measure due to poor accounting and
auditing standards and procedures.  BANADE's financial problems
stemmed from inappropriate management decisions and policies that were
frequently influenced by political considerations. This should have raised
concerns within the World Bank over BANADE's viability, or possibly
have led to the consideration of a restructuring of that institution prior to
making the loan.
*     The use of debt/equity ratios to monitor BANADE's financial
performance was not effective. The project used a maximum debt/equity
ratio covenant to monitor BANADE's performance. Without credible
information on the value of BANADE's assets, such ratio gave a
misleading picture of the bank's actual financial situation. Moreover, the
certification of covenant compliance was given by the Office of
Comptroller of State Companies (SIGEP), which was not inclined, at that
time, to sound alarms about the fact that BANADE's net worth was
probably negative.
*     Loan pricing and interest rate policy discouraged usage of the loan.
The rate charged on subloans was expressed in terms of a fixed real, or



- iv -
inflation adjusted, rate that was to be applied to an indexed amount of
principal, and which included a spread of 3.75 percentage points for the
PBs. This spread, which seems to have been determined arbitrarily, was
much lower than the historically high spreads charged by Argentine banks.
Participating banks were required to co-finance 10% of each subloan with
their own funds. They had to source these funds in the money market
where they paid substantially higher rates in nominal terms.  This
requirement discouraged banks from participating because, in addition to
a sizeable negative interest rate spread on their 10% component of the
loan, the spread earned on the remaining portion of the loan was not
commensurate with what banks would normally charge to cover credit risk
and the cost of servicing the loan. In fact, most PBs interviewed for this
report concluded that this facility generated a loss in terms of interest rate
margins, although these were partly compensated by other aspects of the
overall relationship with their customers.   Eventually, of the 40
commercial bank candidates identified at the time of appraisal, only 13
banks participated.
*     The Bank remedies did not allow the Bank to stop new commitments
in response to worsening macroeconomic conditions. According to the
Loan Agreement, the Bank could suspend disbursements whenever "an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that BANADE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement." Although the macroeconomic crisis was such a situation, it
was too cumbersome for the Bank to exercise its rights with this clause
during the initial stages of the crisis, when its impact on BANADE was
still unclear.  At this stage, the Bank was also unable to suspend
disbursements based on BANADE's failure to comply with the debt/equity
covenant, because SIGEP' s audit reports indicated that BANADE was still
in compliance.  The Bank was able to protect the Borrower's interests
initially through a slow down of subloan approvals, and later, through an
agreement with the Borrower and BANADE to link subloan approvals to
BANADE's successful reorganization. It would have been useful to have
in the Loan Agreement a review clause that would have allowed the Bank
officially to suspend new commitments when the crisis started, while
giving the Bank time to initiate suspension procedures.
6.    The following issues in implementation of the loan were identified:
*     Hyper-inflation undermined loan objectives. At the time of appraisal,
Argentina was undergoing an economic revival that had begun in August
1985, with the announcement of the Plan Austral. However, soon after
Board approval of the loan, inflation began to accelerate as a result of an



v 
overly accommodative monetary policy and inability to maintain the fiscal
situation under control.  During the hyper-inflationary spiral in 1989,
commercial banks experienced an acute liquidity crisis, as depositors
rushed to withdraw their funds from account whose value were being
eroded through inflation. Hyper-inflation increased FOPYME's credit risk
exposure to the participating banks, including BANADE. Also, high
inflation and uncertainty discouraged SMSEs from embarking on new
investments. In such a volatile environment, loan demand was bound to
be unpredictable, credit risk difficult to measure, and loan pricing
unprofitable.
*     BANADE's financial crisis triggered loan cancellation. One of the
critical variances between planned and actual implementation was the
financial crisis which engulfed BANADE, an already weak bank.
Persistent efforts by supervision missions to induce BANADE's
management to address the institution's problems proved unsuccessful.
The Bank's negative assessment of BANADE's restructuring plans helped
to convince the Government to intervene and eventually liquidate that
institution. The process of loan cancellation was a long and complicated
one due to the many vested interests in preserving BANADE and the Bank
loan.
*     The TA  componenit was reformulated several times.  The loan's
appraisal had noted the absence of an active and coordinated TA program
for SMSEs.  Despite a detailed description of the TA needs for this
project, including the identification of the executing agencies (BANADE,
SSME and INTI), the implementation process was stymied by the broader
macroeconomic and financial crises, BANADE's own problems,
Government reorganizations that resulted in new views on TA needs or
lack thereof, and inadequate follow up regarding additional resources that
were needed to assure continuation of the programs. The TA programs
were not given priority during loan implementation.   The weak
performance was attributable to a lack of interest on the part of the
implementing agencies as well as to changes in the scope of the TA
programs which were not adequately evaluated in terms of linkages to the
overall loan objectives, and in terms of additional resource requirements.
7.    Project Results.  Despite its many weaknesses and premature cancellation, this
loan made some progress towards achieving its objectives.  Specifically, this loan
channeled US$60.4 million to support investments in expansion of existing plants or in
the creation of new ones by SMSEs which would otherwise have had to rely on more
limited internally generated funds, or on very expensive and volatile short-term credits.
Subloans concentrated in the following subsectors: food and beverages, 27% of the total;



- vi -
chemical products, 19%; and machinery and equipment, 17%. These loans helped to
develop expertise in medium and long-term financing in the banking system. To qualify
for participation, a commercial bank had to establish a specialized medium- and long-
term SMSE financing unit within its organization.  By enhancing project appraisal
capabilities in a number of banks, this project may ultimately have been helpful in
strengthening the institutional basis for the recent expansion of medium- and long-term
financing in Argentina.
8.    Project Sustainability. The sustainability of an operation of this type depends
on the establishment of a viable and effective delivery mechanism to allocate funds in an
efficient manner according to project objectives. In the event, BANADE's problems
aborted the operation, which in turn thwarted FOPYME's prospects for becoming an
effective wholesale development banking entity.
9.    Lessons Learned. Several lessons can be extracted from the experience of this
project including the following:
*     The experience of this project suggests that Bank loans for credit
operations should not be provided in a situation of macroeconomic
instability. Loan appraisals should assess macroeconomic programs more
closely and spell out the types of developments that would jeopardize the
objectives of the loan.  Loan Agreements should provide adequate
remedies for suspension of new commitments or disbursements if such
conditions arise.
*     The experience of this loan also suggests that credit lines should not be
provided if the banking regulatory and supervisory framework is
inadequate. The poor quality of bank supervision and regulation in
Argentina rendered the available financial information highly unreliable,
making it difficult for the Bank to evaluate the financial situation of
BANADE and for FOPYME to evaluate and monitor the financial
situation of the PBs, particularly as inflation accelerated.
*     Second-tier lending facilities should not be administered by a public
bank that also acts as first-tier lender. In any event, public sector
banks should limit their role to that of a wholesaler.  Also, greater
coordination of public and private sector participation should be
encouraged, possibly by incorporating private sector representation on the
Board of Directors of the public second-tier agency.
*     Greater emphasis should be placed on loan information requirements.
For example, the Bank might consider requiring periodic reports by PBs
with the following information: (i) payment arrears on sub-loans by



- vii -
number of days in arrears; (ii) any refinancing of loan payments; and (iii)
summary performance indicators of each investment enterprise. This
information would be useful in assessing the impact of the loan. In
addition, whenever the government assumes the exchange rate risk from
conversion of local currency into dollars, a quarterly report should be
submitted showing realized gains/losses, as well as translation
gains/losses.
*     Credit line operations should establish exposure limits to a single PB
to avoid concentration of risks, particularly if public banks are allowed to
participate.
*     The pricing and termns of the sub-loans should be market determined.
The currency denomination should be left as an option to the PB and the
final borrower. In the case of local currency denomination, the interest
rate charged on the loan should incorporate a margin to cover potential
exchange rate losses and should be based on the interest rate structure in
the country. PBs should be allowed to negotiate with their clients the size
of the spreads charged on the subloans.  In other words, pricing
mechanism should rely as much as possible on market signals.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2793-AR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:      Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Credit Project
Loan Number:       2793-AR
RVP Unit:          LAICO
Country:           Argentina
Sector:            Finance and Industry
B.    Background
1.1   Once among the world's most prosperous economies, Argentina has experienced
low economic growth since the 1940s. By the mid-1970s, the country's long-term
growth declined noticeably, and in the last half of the 1980s, the country suffered from
its longest period of stagnation in the century.  Savings and investment rates fell
precipitously from the mid-1970s until 1989. This economic performance was traceable
to chronic public sector deficits and endemic inflation. After the return to constitutional
democracy in 1983, public demands to control inflation were translated into four
successive stabilization programs. All failed to eradicate inflation, and each ended in a
more virulent inflation than the one preceding it. The main reason for these failures was
the inability of the stabilization programs to redress rapidly and permanently the
structural deficit of the public sector.
1.2   By the time of project preparation, the democratic Government, after several
unsuccessful attempts to stabilize the economy, had introduced a new program called the
Plan Austral (in June 1985), which included the creation of a new currency known as the
Austral as well as measures to freeze prices and the exchange rate. Shortly after the
announcement of the stabilization plan, the Government requested a Bank loan to support
the development of small and medium industries. Like its predecessors, however, this
program was short-lived. At the time of loan effectiveness, in April 1988, monthly
inflation was fast approaching the 20% mark. In mid-1988, the Government introduced
the Primavera stabilization plan, which again used the nominal exchange rate as the
anchor for inflation without sufficient fiscal restraint. The plan collapsed in early 1989
in the middle of a hyper-inflationary spiral which lasted several months--July inflation
alone was 200%. The inflationary crisis drove the economy into recession: commercial
banks experienced an acute liquidity crisis and the problem of bankruptcies intensified.
In response to the crisis, the Menem administration, which took office in July 1989,



- 2 -
undertook two stabilization plans in 1989 and 1990. Neither succeeded, principally
because of the intractability of the fiscal deficit. Stabilization came with a new fiscal
package introduced in February 1991, which was able to close the fiscal gap, and with
the Law of Convertibility, introduced in April 1991, which guaranteed the convertibility
of the peso into dollars at a one to one rate and effectively proscribed money creation
other than to buy net foreign reserves.
1.3   The Industrial Sector.  Argentina's import-substituting strategy of industrial
development started showing its weaknesses during the 1960's. The military government
that took office in 1976, introduced some trade liberalization measures, but many non-
tariff barriers remained that provided tailor-made protection to powerful domestic groups
such as the auto industry and the petrochemical and steel companies, owned by the
military. Unionized labor benefitted from high wages, guaranteed employment, and rigid
rules governing hiring and dismissals. The strong protection granted to intermediate
industries and high labor costs, coupled with the overvaluation of the currency and
growing inflation, resulted in decreased competitiveness of industrial producers, both in
local and export markets. As a result of this strategy, during 1970-82, the industrial
sector grew at a dismally low annual rate of 0.13%. The trade liberalization program
was reversed when the 1982 debt crisis emerged. The civilian government extended
significantly import tariffs and licenses, as well as export subsidies and subsidized credit
for some industries, while increasing export taxes for others.
1.4   Industrial policies discriminated against small and medium-scale enterprises
(SMSEs) which had less access to subsidized credits and inputs, so that most SMSEs with
plans for modernization or expansion were unable to carry them out. Many of them
ceased to produce, while others reduced their operations or moved into the informal
economy. Between 1974 and 1984, the number of SMSEs productive facilities declined
by 13% to about 32,000 units with more than five employees each; physical production
fell 15%; and employment decreased 34%. A survey of industrial firms carried out in
1984, showed that only 30% of the SMSEs made new investments during 1977-83.
Another survey conducted by BANADE in mid-1986, complemented by the findings of
several Bank missions, showed that SMSEs had obsolete equipment, but were willing to
invest in modernization.  However, scarcity of appropriate credit was viewed as a
binding constraint for investment.
1.5   At the time or preparation of this loan, the Government had heightened its interest
in the development of SMSEs.  The Sub-secretariat for Small and Medium-scale
Enterprises (SSME) was established within the Secretariat of lndustry and Trade to
promote SMSEs in the industrial sector. This loan was envisioned as an instrument to
support the Government's newly developed interest in SMSEs.
1.6   The Financial Sector. At the time of loan appraisal, Argentina's financial system
consisted of the Central Bank (BCRA), four specialized national banks: the country's



- 3 -
largest commercial bank (Banco de la Nacion Argentina-BNA); BANADE, the industrial
development bank; the national housing bank (BHN); and 189 banks, of which 31
(including 24 provincial banks) were public and 158 were private (of which 31 were
foreign and 127 were nationally owned). The balance of the system included 68 finance
companies and 45 savings and loan associations and credit unions. The public banks,
excluding BCRA, had about 57% of total deposits and were responsible for about 66%
of the total volume of loans. Private banks controlled about 41% of total deposits and
provided about 32% of the credit. The equity base of the financial system, excluding
BCRA, was relatively small, equivalent to US$3.7 billion by year-end 1985.
1.7   The growth of public banks had discouraged financial development in different
ways. First, several of these banks hindered private sector banking development by
lending at subsidized terms. Second, a large proportion of public banks' credit had been
channeled to notoriously inefficient public enterprises. Third, despite the weak financial
position of public banks caused by mismanagement, strong political pressures, specially
from the Provincial governments which relied heavily on financing from public sector
banks, made it virtually impossible for the BCRA to deny funding as a last resort.
Finally, public sector banks had set an undesirable example of not being subject to
review and being partially freed from regulatory restrictions.
1.8   The private banking system was oversized given its large number of branches
(about 5,000) and institutions, its relatively low resource base, and its small portfolio
size.  Between 1950 and 1985, bank employment tripled while real deposits did not
exhibit any sustained growth. Thus, deposits per employee declined by about 66%.
Inordinate physical expansion, including excessive branching per bank, was encouraged
by subsidized central bank credit and controlled interest rates on deposits, which coupled
with inflation, provided opportunities for banks to benefit from the inflation tax.
Furthermore, bank investors had been attracted to the banking business by the 100%
deposit guarantee regime, which provided another opportunity of profiteering from the
Government. These conditions encouraged excessive risk taking.
1.9   Since the 1960's, Argentina's financial sector performance had been undermined
by macroeconomic and financial sector policies. The financial system's core structural
problem was the peculiar BCRA intermediation arrangement that had evolved to channel
subsidies and to fund the public sector deficits. In effect, BCRA borrowed funds through
the "forced-investment" mechanism from the private commercial banks, and passed these
on through "rediscounts" to public sector financial institutions--mainly to BHN,
BANADE, and to the provincial banks, which in turn subsidized credit to public and
private enterprises. The BCRA was called upon to provide credit to the public banks
because the macroeconomic instability had made it impossible for them to raise sufficient
funds to finance their activities. This problem was compounded by the inefficiency of
the public banks' operations. In the early 1980's this problem was further aggravated
because BCRA began to use the same mechanism to provide credit to the Treasury. An



- 4 -
oversized banking system, weak capital adequacy rules and lack of prudential regulation
and supervision, were strong incentives to corruption and contributed to the declining
health of financial institutions. The Bank did not use this loan as a vehicle to address
any of the problems affecting the financial sector; these problems were expected to be
addressed by a US$400 million Banking Sector Loan under preparation at that time.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
1.10  A Bank report on strategies toward industrial and export development, dated
September 1985, identified the need to assist SMSEs as a major component for an
industrial development strategy in Argentina. The appraisal mission was carried out in
October 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 24 to March 6,
1987. The loan was approved by the Bank's Board on April 14, 1987 and was signed
on December 21, 1987. The loan became effective on April 8, 1988. Subsequently, the
loan was cancelled at the request of the Borrower in July 1, 1993.
1.11  The project objectives were to encourage modernization, strengthen productivity,
and expand output by SMSEs, with particular emphasis on employment generation and
on greater diversification outside of the major urban areas. The project objectives
addressed one of the weak links in the development of industrial enterprises in Argentina:
the scarcity of medium- and long-term lending to SMSEs. Due to a long history of
inflation, financial system lending in Argentina was limited almost exclusively to short-
term financing. This project aimed to reactivate commercial banks interest in medium
and long-term project financing
1.12  The project was structured as follows: a credit line component of US$123.1
million to finance: (i) fixed assets and related permanent working capital needs of SMSEs
(including machinery and equipment and their installation costs; building construction,
handling and storage facilities; civil works; quality and pollution control equipment;
replacement of obsolete machinery and equipment; investments for improvement of
product, quality and design; and acquisition of new technologies); (ii) free standing
working capital needs; and (iii) technical services for SMSEs and for the establishment
and operations of trading companies related to SMSE activities. A technical assistance
component of US$1.9 million to strengthen the organizations providing technical
assistance to SMSEs. Specifically, the TA component would: (i) strengthen BANADE's
capabilities to provide assistance to SMSEs and to participating banks in the areas of
project evaluation and sub-sectoral analysis; (ii) help INTI (the National Institute of
Industrial Technology) to implement three types of technical training programs for
SMSEs to: build management skills, develop in-plant managerial assistance, and address
deficiencies in INTI's own training programs; and (iii) support the creation of a network
of Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTACs) within the Sub-Secretariat for Small
and Medium-Scale Enterprises under the Ministry of Industry and Trade.



- 5 -
1.13 A unit called the Fund for Medium and Small Scale Enterprises (FOPYME) was
established within BANADE to operate as a second-tier financial intermediary responsible
for administering the project. FOPYME was eventually to become the principal public
sector institution for financing of SMSEs through BANADE and private commercial
banks as direct lenders. FOPYME was also responsible for coordination of a TA
program for SMSE development. One of the conditions of loan effectiveness was that
BANADE's Board approve FOPYME's Statement of Policies and Operating Regulations
as well as the Statement of Policies and Procedures for subproject appraisal and
supervision.
1. 14 BANADE was selected to manage the second-tier mechanism because it was the
main source of credit for industrial projects in the country. BANADE had been created
as an autonomous Government-owned industrial development bank in December 1970,
out of the reorganized "Banco Industrial." In addition to its primary development
objectives, BANADE also provided commercial banking services, and had become
practically the only domestic institution providing long-term lending for industry. Only
those PBs that were pre-qualified by FOPYME/BANADE (estimated at 40 plus
BANADE itself), in consultation with BCRA--based on creditworthiness analysis made
by FOPYME/BANADE--would be able to participate.
1.15  The cost of the investment projects financed under the loan was estimated at
appraisal at US$250 million, of which 53% represented foreign exchange costs. The
Bank loan of US$125 million was expected to cover 50% of the project costs, with the
SMSEs contributing about 25 %, and the remaining portion to be financed with
BANADE/FOPYME, BCRA, PB's funds.   A summary of the Loan's terms and
conditions is provided as an Annex.
D.   Project Design and Organization
1.16  The most important design features that affected the outcome of the project were
the following:
Creation of a second-tier mechanism within a main retailer bank opened the
possibility of conflict of interests.
1.17 One of the principal design elements of the project was the creation of FOPYME
as a specialized wholesale banking unit within BANADE. It was expected that FOPYME
would become the development finance vehicle to manage similar future bilateral and
multilateral agency lending facilities. It was felt that, if properly managed, FOPYME
could perform the credit analysis of financial institutions, supervise financing operations,
and provide technical assistance to financial intermediaries and SMSEs, either directly
or in conjunction with other local technical institutes.  Through an entity such as
FOPYME, the external financing agencies would then be able to achieve a more



- 6 -
acceptable level of risk diversification, since FOPYME would spread the risks to as
many banks as possible. Previously, external agencies that dealt directly with local banks
had limited themselves to dealing with a few so-called "top-tier" institutions.
1.18 The Subsidiary Agreement gave loan approval authority to BANADE, which some
PBs felt gave BANADE an unfair advantage in processing its own loans. To the extent
that BANADE approved its own loans faster than loans from other PBs, SMSEs would
be encouraged to seek a loan from BANADE.  This perception may have been a
deterrent to more active participation by PBs. Also, under the Loan Agreement, PBs
were free to make sub-loans up to US$500,000 as long as they followed proper
procedures (which were to be supervised by the Bank). However, under the Subsidiary
Agreements, free-limit loans above US$300,000 had to be approved by BANADE's
Board of Directors, which should not have been necessary. The creation of FOPYME
within BANADE created the perception of likely bias and generated distrust from the
other participating banks.
Oversight of BANADE's problems undermined the loan
1.19 Prior to appraisal, BANADE's financial problems were widely known within the
Argentine banking industry, although the magnitude was difficult to measure due to poor
accounting and auditing standards and procedures. BANADE's financial problems were
associated with inadequate management decisions and policies that were frequently
influenced by political considerations.  While the appraisal noted BANADE's weak
financial situation and performance, it pointed to improvements since 1983. The
appraisal did not include detailed information on BANADE's loan portfolio showing the
extent of arrears by age or the type of classification assigned to risk assets. The
appraisal concluded that BANADE's overall portfolio exposure/quality was relatively
acceptable (although it recognized problems associated with the 50 largest corporate
borrowers) and that its provisioning policies and level of provisions as of June 30, 1986
were satisfactory.  Although one of the conditions of loan effectiveness was that
BANADE revise its policy on loan loss provisions, the Bank did not require that loan
loss provisions actually be adjusted to conform with the new policy.  The lack of
adequate credit policies and procedures should have raised concern over BANADE's
viability, or possibly have led to the consideration of a restructuring of the institution
prior to making the loan.
The use of debt/equity ratios to monitor BANADE's financial performance was not
effective.
1.20 The financial conditionality applied to BANADE consisted only of a maximum
debt to equity ratio. This ratio was highly misleading due to Argentina's accounting
practices: assets were not classified by risk, there were no provision standards, and
incomes and expenditures we accounted on accrual basis. As a result, it was impossible



- 7 -
to quantify BANADE's equity realistically. In addition, the certification of covenant
compliance was given by the Office of Comptroller of State Companies (SIGEP); only
when the Bank pressed for a special audit did SIGEP produce a qualified report. In
principle, the financial conditionality applied to BANADE as a wholesaler bank should
have focused more on portfolio quality, such as percent of arrears; on earnings, such as
rate of return on assets; on liquidity, such as current assets to current liabilities; and on
policies and procedures, such as requiring an update of certain policies and procedures
and manuals.  Although the debt/equity ratio was inadequate to monitor BANADE's
financial performance, failure to comply with this covenant was one of the arguments
ultimately used by the Bank to recommend loan cancellation.
Loan pricing and interest rate policy discouraged usage of the loan
1.21  According to the Loan Agreement, the rate charged on sub-loans was expressed
in terms of a fixed real, or inflation adjusted, rate that was to be applied to an indexed
amount of principal, and which included a spread of 3.75 percentage points for the PB.
This spread seems to have been determined arbitrarily, and was much lower than average
spreads in Argentina. This in turn discouraged bank participation. The spread a bank
earns on a loan should compensate for credit risk, administrative costs associated with
loan servicing, and the opportunity cost of funds which reflects the degree of liquidity
in the financial system. Clearly, the liquidity factor alone would have implied a much
higher spread on the sub-loans. In this type of operations, PBs should be allowed to
negotiate the spreads directly with the borrower, and the real rate applied to the indexed
portion of the loan should also be market determined.
1.22 BANADE was responsible for reviewing interest rates applicable to the subsidiary
loans and subloans at least twice a year, and for revising them according to the following
criteria: a) that rates should be higher than the prevailing average rate on deposits; or b)
that rates charged should cover BANADE's and PB's cost of funds. Both conditions
were vague with respect to reference rates. The requirement that rates on subloans were
to exceed rates on deposits proved difficult to apply due to the high inflationary
environment in Argentina.  Since most deposits were short-term, their yields were
expressed in terms of a nominal rate. Yet the interest rates specified for the subloans
were expressed in terms of a real rate on top of indexation. These two types of rates
were not comparable. The reference to the cost of funds rate was not practical in view
of the lack of available information on banks' cost of funds, and of PB's reluctance to
provide BANADE, a perceived competitor, with sensitive information regarding their
cost of funds.
1.23  The subsidiary loans and subloans were denominated in Australes, instead of
dollars, because it was felt that the primary source of income for most of the industrial
enterprises that would participate in this project was the domestic market. SMSEs that
had borrowed dollars in the past had incurred substantial losses as a result of maxi-



- 8 -
devaluations. However, not all banks shared this view, which suggests that perhaps more
commercial banks should have been consulted during the initial stage of loan design.
1.24  Since the subloans were denominated in Australes, an indexation formula was
devised to adjust the principal amount of the loan by inflation. According to the Loan
Agreement, this adjustment was to be based on a special price index which combined the
consumer and wholesale price indices. This mechanism proved inadequate in dealing
with very high inflation rates. Since the price index was published with a delay of about
30 days, the actual adjustment to the loan's principal value was based on the previous
month's inflation. During periods of accelerating inflation, this formula benefitted the
borrower, but during periods of declining inflation it resulted in an increasing value of
the loan in real terms. As shown in Table 6, depending on when the loan was initially
contracted, the adjustments produced dramatic differences in the outstanding balances.
For example, a US$100 loan disbursed in June 1989, would show an outstanding amount
of US$777 by March 1991; whereas the same loan disbursed in December 1990 would
show an outstanding amount of US$81 by March 1991. Distortions were also created
by drastic changes in the real exchange rate. The adjustment lag resulted in significant
prepayments when the inflation rate dropped, since borrowers rushed to prepay in order
to avoid the adjustment for the very high inflation in the previous month. One SMSE
claimed that it had prepaid a US$250,000 line of credit with US$70,000.  This
opportunity could have arisen right after a maxi-devaluation, but before the local inflation
rate reflected the impact of the devaluation, and thus before the loan's value had been
adjusted by the price index.
Loan limits and the subloan approval process further hindered PB's participation
1.25  Loan limits for each subproject may have resulted in a funding gap which
discouraged the financing of viable projects. The Bank's participation in the financing
of each investment project was limited to 50% for the project, within which two sub-
limits were established: first, a limit of 40% was to apply to the first US$62.5 million
of loan disbursements; and second, a 60% limit on the remaining portion of the loan.
The Subsidiary Agreement required PBs to participate with another 10% of the subloan
amount, even though this condition was not contained in the Loan Agreement. The
subloans were in turn limited to 80% and 60% of the subproject costs respectively for
existing and for new SMSE's. In the case of an existing SMSE that would have qualified
for a subloan during the latter phase of the loan, the Bank's 60% plus the PB's 10%
would have left a gap of as much as 30% of the subloan amount. The loan's financing
structure should have been simplified to only one or two types of operations, with a
complete accounting of each institution's participation within the total amount of each
subloan spelled-out in the Loan Agreement.



-9
E.    Project Implementation
Hyper-inflation undermined the loan's objectives
1.26  At the time of project appraisal, Argentina was undergoing an economic revival
that had begun in August 1985, with the announcement of the Plan Austral. Monthly
inflation had been kept at single digit rates, and the economy was in a full blown
expansion. Soon after Board approval of the loan, inflation began to accelerate as a
result of an overly accommodative monetary policy. During the first half of 1989,
commercial banks experienced an acute liquidity crisis as depositors rushed to withdraw
their funds from indexed deposits whose value was being eroded through hyper-inflation.
By providing emergency liquidity support to commercial banks, the Central Bank
prevented a collapse of the financial system and thus safeguarded FOPYME's credit risk
exposure to the PBs and BANADE. Private sector borrowers were not as fortunate, and
the incidence of bankruptcies was widespread.
1.27  Operating a medium and long-term lending facility is exceedingly difficult in such
an adverse economic environment. Typically, financial operations take on a very short
time horizon, seven to 30 days, during periods of high inflation. Businesses focus on
cash flow management, such as collections, and defer any investment plans until market
conditions stabilize. Any assessment of this project needs to recognize the highly unusual
macro-economic circumstances, which, when combined with the preexisting problems of
BANADE and the lack of experience with medium and long-term lending in Argentina,
complicated practically every aspect of this operation.
1.28  While it was difficult to predict at the time of Board approval that the Plan
Austral would collapse and thus trigger a hyper-inflationary spiral, when loan
effectiveness was declared inflation had already accelerated substantially. Although
macro-economic performance was not a condition of effectiveness, the fact that inflation
was getting out of hand should have been interpreted as a warning signal for potential
credit risk problems and possibly have led to a stay in loan effectiveness.   While
economic conditions improved dramatically following the successful implementation of
the Convertibility Law in 1991, by then it was too late to have prevented the loan's
cancellation. If this loan had been made later in 1991 or in 1992, after the Convertibility
Law, perhaps the implementation and results would have been different.
BANADE's financial crisis triggers loan cancellation
1.29  The economic crisis that unfolded during the initial implementation of the loan
worsened BANADE's financial problems, and subsequently led to the loan's early
cancellation. (A description of BANADE's financial problems is contained in Annex II).
1.30  Shortly before the loan was declared effective in April 1988, a Bank report had



- 10 -
raised serious concerns about the weakness of BANADE's portfolio. The report showed
that loans to the 50 largest private borrowers in arrears represented 68% of total loan
exposure. In addition, the Government had not complied with its guarantees attached to
a sizeable portion of the affected portfolio. The report also pointed out that the loan
portfolio was highly skewed towards heavy intermediate-goods industries, such as pulp
and paper, petrochemicals and chemicals. The lack of an integral and coherent loan
portfolio administration and supervision policy impeded the performance of basic due
diligence of asset protection. In view of the deficiencies pointed out by the report, loan
effectiveness should have been postponed, or perhaps new understanding should have
been reached that would have further limited the ability of BANADE to act as a first-tier
lender under the project.
1.31  Immediately after loan effectiveness the Bank began to discuss the need for a
restructuring of BANADE to avert further deterioration in its portfolio. Based on the
Bank's analysis, BANADE had technically lost its capital, although reliance on BCRA
credit had deferred a liquidity crisis. Nevertheless, since the official audit reports from
SIGEP did not show the extent of BANADE's equity problem, the Bank was limited in
terms of legal remedies to address this problem. Financial statements were found to be
misleading specially since loans with substantial payments arrears were still being
accounted for as performing assets. A recommendation was made at that time to
withhold any new Bank financing to BANADE until a satisfactory restructuring was
achieved. As a result of heavy losses incurred during the first half of 1988, BANADE
had failed to meet the loan's required debt to equity ratio. At this point, the Bank began
to stress the urgency of a thorough restructuring of that institution, while raising the
possibility of a freeze on new commitments under the loan. The restructuring options
being considered included a major downsizing of BANADE into a wholesale banking
operation, with the Government assuming a large portion of the non-performing loan
portfolio. Opposition to any major cut in BANADE's 3,100 employee base was strong.
1.32  In October 1988 a Bank supervision mission for the Second Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 2063-AR), administered by BANADE, found that only 48% of BANADE's
its portfolio could be classified as normal and that BANADE had a serious cash-flow
problem. This situation was further aggravated by the Ministry of Finance's decision
not to meet its obligations regarding guarantees on loans extended by BANADE to
several public and private enterprises which had defaulted. The mission also found that
BANADE's long term debt to equity ratio was above the agreed limit under Loan 2063-
AR and above one of the three debt/equity covenants under Loan 2793-AR. The mission
recommended a prompt restructuring followed by recapitalization of BANADE.
Although BANADE's management was lukewarm about the need for restructuring, the
Government agreed to present by December 1988 a restructuring plan for BANADE as
a condition of effectiveness of the Banking Sector Loan (approved in early 1988), which
was eventually cancelled without ever becoming effective.



- 11 -
1.33 A Bank mission visited Argentina in December 1988 to review the restructuring
plans of BANADE and another state banks and to carry out a limited supervision of Loan
2793-AR. The mission provided detailed advice for a restructuring to make BANADE
a financially sound institution, without recourse to BCRA funding. To achieve this
objective the Bank recommended: (i) strengthening the management of the loan
portfolio;(ii) refraining from funding in the short-term money market; (iii) downsizing
of staff and branch network; (iv) strengthening of lending policies and procedures; and
(v) improving management and auditing procedures.
1.34  With the onslaught of hyper-inflation and the resulting financial system crisis
during the second quarter of 1989, the Bank began seriously to question the financial
viability of BANADE. In June 1989, following the recommendations of the May 1989
supervision mission, the Bank required the re-evaluation of participating banks and the
updating of sub-loans already presented for Bank approval to reflect current inflationary
conditions. The Bank also requested that BANADE provide audited mid-year financial
statements. The decision to suspend disbursements was deferred out of concern over the
potentially negative impact of such a freeze on BANADE's frail financial condition.
1.35  After President Menem assumed office in July 1989, a new administration was
appointed to BANADE.  The new management supported the plan to restructure
BANADE as a wholesale bank with limited retail operations. A September 1989
supervision mission visited BANADE to assess the feasibility of continuing loan
commitments.  The mission made field visits to review a number of subprojects
previously presented for Bank approval, which had been re-evaluated, and found them
viable. However, the Bank did not approve further disbursements, awaiting the results
of the mid-year audit review.
1.36 In October/ November 1989, a Bank mission carried out a review of Argentina's
financial sector including public banks.  The mission confirmed the seriousness of
BANADE's solvency problems, and concluded that a recovery was not feasible. The
mission found that BANADE's net worth was probably negative, its management very
weak and its restructuring plans inconsistent. With respect to the restructuring plan that
had been submitted by the new management, the Bank's analysis cast doubt on
BANADE's ability to embark on new lines of activities such as fee-based services. In
view of its somber assessment, the Bank concluded that there were only three realistic
options for managing Loan 2793-AR: (i) to continue lending through FOPYME, but stop
BANADE's first-tier lending; (ii) to transfer FOPYME to BCRA; or (iii) to cancel the
loan. In December 1989, the Bank advised BANADE that continuous non-compliance
with the financial covenants could lead to suspension. In view of the seriousness of the
situation, the Bank initiated internal processing for suspension of disbursements.
1.37 In March 1990, the Government intervened BANADE. An understanding was
reached with BANADE's new authorities to defer a decision on suspension of the loan



- 12 -
pending BANADE's presentation, no later than June 30 of that year, of audited financial
statements confirming compliance with the financial covenants for 1989, and that it was
implementing a viable restructuring plan. In May 1990, the Government ordered
BANADE's restructuring into a second-tier bank. The bank's interventor hired Price
Waterhouse to assess the restructuring plan and to help during the transition period.
Important restructuring steps were taken which included the closure of all branches,
adoption of voluntary retirement plan and cessation of all commercial banking activities.
1.38  After BANADE submitted the requested audited statements in July 1990, a
delegation of its top managers visited the Bank to seek endorsement of its restructuring
plan and approval of a number of subprojects that BANADE had processed but which
had been frozen since the Bank had stopped approving subprojects in May 1989. The
Bank agreed to approve the pending subprojects subject to several safeguards. The Bank
made clear, however, that full normalization of the credit line would be subject to proof
that BANADE was still a going concern, and that it complied with the Bank's
requirements concerning risk management.
1.39  A Bank mission that visited BANADE in March 1991 to review its restructuring
plans concluded that more work was needed to substantiate the viability of the bank, and
to quantify its capital requirements. It was agreed that BANADE would not submit
subprojects for Bank approval or authorization for the time being. The Bank sent a letter
to the Government indicating that given the uncertain outcome of the feasibility study for
BANADE's reorganization, and the costs to the Government of maintaining the credit
line unutilized for a year or more, the authorities should consider cancelling the loan.
Soon after, the Bank informed the Borrower that if it failed to request cancellation of the
loan, the Bank would consider suspension. The Bank reactivated suspension procedures
which were stopped when the Government requested cancellation of US$39.5 million of
uncommitted funds. The cancellation was made effective as of November 1, 1991.
1.40  Cancellation of the remaining funds proved a long and arduous process.
Following the Government's decision to close BANADE in May 1992, and to transfer
BANADE's industrial promotion functions to BNA, the Bank formally requested the
committed funds be disbursed or cancelled as soon as possible. In July, at Government's
request, the Bank cancelled--retroactive to April 1992--US$17.4 million of undisbursed
funds; another US$4.2 million were cancelled in November. By then all uncommitted
funds had been cancelled except the balance of US$3.8 million in the Special Account,
for which BANADE had legal commitments with sub-borrowers who were paying
commitment fees. Between June 1992 and July 1993, the Bank made numerous attempts
to get the Government to return the remaining funds in the Special Account and to close
the loan. The authorities were advised of the consequences foreseen in Article VI of the
General Conditions of not reimbursing these funds. The loan was finally closed in July
1993, following the reimbursement of the remaining funds in the Special Account.



- 13 -
Other problems triggered by the rinancial crisis
1.41  During the hyper-inflationary period loan subborrowers encountered serious
liquidity problems that were exacerbated by the subloan's indexation formula.
Subborrowers demanded dollarization since the adjustment applied to their loan in
Australes greatly exceeded the rate of devaluation. A number of subborrowers went to
court to demand conversions by suing the PBs, which in turn sued FOPYME and
BANADE. However, this issue was not resolved until 1991, when the passage of the
Convertibility Law in effect made the option to convert a moot point. At BCRA's
proposal, the Subsidiary Agreement was amended in December 1991 to allow conversion
of Austral denominated subloans into dollar subloans. Under this new scheme, SMSE's
would have the option of either maintaining their loan in Australes (pesos) or converting
it into dollars.
Response by PBs and SMSEs to the loan was mixed
1.42  PBs interviewed for this report, did not regard the Bank's loan as a profitable
operation. In addition to a sizeable negative interest rate spread on the 10% component
of the loan, the spread earned on the remaining portion of the loan was not
commensurate with what banks would normally charge to cover credit risk and the cost
of servicing the loan. However, most of those interviewed concluded that the loss in
terms of interest rate margins were compensated by other aspects of the overall
relationship with their customers. The problems of credit risk and of an inflexible loan
pricing formula were exacerbated by the very high inflationary environment. Eventually,
the 10% rule was relaxed allowing PBs to designate their participation as working capital
financing which had a shorter repayment period; eventually they were allowed to lend
the 10% for a term of less than a year.
1.43  Most of the sub-loans were made to well-established clients of the PBs.
Typically, PBs offered this loan as a last resort, and only if the customer requested it.
The lack of experience in medium- and long-term financing, coupled with the unattractive
terms on this facility, and the high degree of volatility in the economy, contributed to the
unenthusiastic reception and promotion of this facility by PBs. In fact, of the 40
commercial bank candidates identified at the time of appraisal, only 13 banks
participated.
1.44 Initially, demand for the loan by SMSEs was strong due to the relatively favorable
terms with respect to the maturity of the sub-loans. Later on, demand slackened as high
inflation discouraged SMSEs from embarking on new investments. PBs became also
more cautious in approving loans because in such a volatile environment project
evaluations became unpredictable, credit risk difficult to measure, and loan pricing
unprofitable. Nevertheless, some demand for loan funds continued even during the
height of the hyper-inflation period.



- 14 -
Reformulation of Technical Assistance
1.45  Despite a detailed description of the TA needs for this project in the appraisal
report, the implementation process was stymied by BANADE's own problems,
Government reorganizations of the implementing agencies that resulted in new views on
TA needs or lack thereof, and inadequate follow up regarding additional resources that
were needed to assure continuation of the programs.
1.46 Of the initially envisaged three TA programs, only the development of the
network of RTACs was finally carried out with loan funds under the supervision of the
UNDP. INTI did not participate in the project as originally expected, and thus the
training seminars were excluded from the final program. Part of the reason for INTI's
exodus from the project was that its participation had originally been spearheaded by an
official which subsequently left the organization, and his replacement could not come to
terms with the Bank.  The program to strengthen BANADE's capabilities to assist
SMSEs was only partially implemented due to BANADE's financial problems. With
its own funds, BANADE created a computer program to do financial evaluations which
was made available to the PBs. BANADE's plans to carry out sectoral studies and to
update a 1985 study on shadow prices--used in calculating the economic return on
investments--did not go ahead.
1.47 The RTACs project consisted of training seminars and development of data bases
which would be offered to SMSEs through regional centers. Part of the funds financed
the purchase of computers to link each regional center with a central information center.
The RTACs program experienced some setbacks when the Government changed the
coordinator and staff of the SSME in charge of this program. The Bank temporarily
delayed approval of new expenditures for the RTACs project due to unconvincing
reformulations of the TA program by the new SSME coordinator. Although the program
was eventually completed, its sustainability is doubtful. While the equipment was
purchased and the network installed in several RTACs, the SSME did not assign the
necessary staff to the centers or allocated additional funds for their maintenance.
Eventually, the network was utilized for electronic mail between government agencies
in the different facilities. The data base developed to assist SMSEs in obtaining strategic
information on market opportunities contains valuable information on government
agencies, regulations, contacts, as well as financing availability at commercial banks.
However, without adequate maintenance, this information will soon become stale and of
limited use to SMSEs.
F.    Proiect Results
1.48 Despite its many weaknesses and premature cancellation, this loan made some
progress towards achieving its objectives in terms of providing credit to SMSEs and
developing skills for medium and long- term financing among participating banks.



- 15 -
Provided medium and long-term financing for SMSEs
1.49 At a time when medium- and long-term financing was scarce, this loan channeled
US$60.4 million (49% of the original credit line component) to support investments in
expansion of existing plants or in creation of new ones. These funds were applied to
SMSEs which would otherwise have had to rely on limited internally generated funds,
or on very expensive and volatile short-term credits. As shown in Table 1, total
financing was more or less evenly distributed between small and medium sized
enterprises.' About 71% of the loans were made to small scale enterprises accounting
for 54% of the total amount disbursed. As expected, the average loan size for medium
scale enterprises was slightly more than twice as large as for small scale companies.
About two-thirds of the sub-loans were to the central region of the country, which
includes the provinces of Buenos Aires and Cordoba, where most of the industrial sector
is situated, followed by the northwestern region with 18%.
1.50 This loan helped to finance investments by industrial enterprises with
concentration in the following sub-sectors: food and beverages, 27% of the total;
chemical products, 19%; and machinery and equipment, 17%. These three industries
accounted for 63 % of total disbursements. The remaining portion of the loan was spread
out over nine other industrial sub-sectors.
1.51  While the weak link in the project's structuring proved to be BANADE's financial
problems, FOPYME, as a self-contained financing unit within BANADE, was able to
shield, the execution of the project from the financial difficulties of the host institution.
In principle, FOPYME could have continued to operate as an independent second-tier
financing agency, or have been transferred to another public sector bank. However, this
transfer was not a realistic option given the weak financial situation of public sector
banks in Argentina.
1.52 This loan provided PBs with the opportunity to channel medium and long-term
credit to their clients at a time when these types of funds were scarce. About 28% of
the funds were disbursed through PBs, which is moderately above the minimum of 25 %
as per the loan Agreement (See Table 1). PBs role was more important in financing
mid-sized enterprises--with about 38% of total financing to that sub-sector--while
BANADE was more active in lending to small companies--with 79% of the total. The
size distribution between BANADE and the PBs may be due to BANADE's extensive
network of branches in small towns and rural areas, which was not the case for PBs.
1.    The information on loan disbursements contained in this section is based on
information as of 12/31/91. This was the most recent information available from
FOPYME at the time of this report. The reported amount of $58.5 million
represented 97% of total disbursements.



- 16 -
1.53  The PBs emphasis on mid-sized enterprises could also be explained by their
different approach in qualifying applicants.  The customer profile of the corporate
banking department of commercial banks is typically dominated by mid- and large sized
companies. They prefer to deal with a mid-sized companies that have an established
track record of performance, for which financial information is more readily available,
and which also have greater amplitude for loan collateral. In addition, loans to mid-sized
companies are more attractive than to small-scale enterprises because of lower
administrative costs relative to the size of the loan. In this regard, a policy of freely
determined spreads could have resulted in greater lending to small scale enterprises by
the commercial banking sector.
1.54  While no information was available on the quality of the sub-loan portfolio, at the
time of the PCR mission, FOPYME reported that no Participating Loans to PBs were in
arrears. This would imply that FOPYME performed adequately in its evaluation of PBs,
and that financial intermediaries were able to cope in Argentina's highly unstable
economic environment. No information was available on the level of arrears on subloans
made by BANADE as a first-tier bank.
Helped to develop expertise in project financing among commercial banks.
1.55 This loan also helped to develop expertise in medium and long-term project
financing in the banking system. To qualify for participation, a commercial bank had
to establish a credit evaluation unit within its organization. Commercial banks had to
build up their new units including the development of policies and procedures, the
training of staff, and the promotion of these new products and services throughout their
organization. Some of the PBs seized on their initial investments in these units to further
expand their activities through participation in other bilateral and multilateral facilities,
such as the Spanish and Italian bilateral programs and the IFC's lines of credit.
However, banks begun to consider financing as a viable activity only after the
inflationary spiral had been eradicated, and the private sector was willing to consider a
longer term investment horizon.
G.   Project Sustainabilitv
1.56 The sustainability of any financing operation hinges on the design of a viable and
effective delivery mechanism to allocate funds in an efficient manner according to project
objectives. In the event, BANADE's problems, exacerbated by the effects of hyper-
inflation, aborted the operation, which in tum thwarted FOPYME's prospects for
becoming an effective wholesale development banking entity (See discussion of
BANADE's financial problems in Annex II). There is no information as to the
sustainability of industrial operations financed by project subloans.



- 17 -
H.   Bank Performance
1.57  In the interest of launching this operation expeditiously, the Bank's staff may have
overlooked, during preparation and appraisal, some pertinent questions regarding the
country's macroeconomic conditions and the implementing agency's performance
capabilities. However, when the economic conditions deteriorated, Bank staff worked
diligently to protect the Bank's and the Borrower's interests and in pursuing remedial
actions to work out the problems confronting BANADE.
1.58  During the time of appraisal, Argentina was experiencing the benefits of the
Austral Plan in terms of strong growth and low inflation. The Bank's staff may have
been led by good intentions in seizing on an opportunity to support that economic
program. However, given Argentina's chronic inflationary problems, the appraisal was
overly optimistic about the prospects of a stabilization plan that was just being
implemented. With respect to the choice of implementing agency, a number of warning
signals were already evident at the time of appraisal such as BANADE's loan portfolio
problems, that should have alerted Bank staff to rethink the loan design. Furthermore,
the mixed experiences from two previous Bank loans which used BANADE as project
administrator should have put in question BANADE's role as implementing agency.
Unfortunately, PCRs of the other operations came too late to provide lessons for the
design of this loan.
1.59 Loan supervision flagged BANADE's problems almost immediately after loan
effectiveness. Successive Bank missions (including missions not directly involved in the
supervision of this loan) provided advice to BANADE's management and Government
officials on remedial actions to address BANADE's problems. The Bank considered
suspension when the economic crisis jeopardized the objectives of the loan. The Bank
could suspend disbursements whenever "an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BANADE will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement." Although the macroeconomic crisis was such a situation,
it was too cumbersome for the Bank to exercise its rights with this clause during the
initial stages of the crisis, when its impact on BANADE was still unclear. At this stage,
the Bank was also unable to suspend disbursements based on BANADE's failure to
comply with the debt/equity covenant, because SIGEP's audit reports indicated that
BANADE was still in compliance. The Bank was able to protect the Borrower's interests
initially through a slow down of subloan approvals, and later, through an agreement with
the Borrower and BANADE to link subloan approvals to BANADE's successful
reorganization. When it became evident that BANADE's restrLcturing efforts were
inadequate, the Bank was instrumental in convincing the Government of the need to
cancel the loan and to close BANADE, a bank responsible for a large share of
Argentina's foreign debt.



- 18 -
I.    Borrower/Executing Agency Performance
1.60  On the macro-economic front, the Government was unable to maintain a suitable
environment for medium- and long-term  financing.  Eventually, macro-economic
performance improved dramatically with the passage of the Convertibility Law and other
reforms by the Menem Administration, but it was too late to save the loan.
1.61  BANADE's downfall can be attributed to the inadequate response to its financial
problems which became critical as a result of the hyper-inflation. The Borrower's
representatives were not always willing to recognize BANADE's problems and take
actions to address them. BANADE's management was also unwilling to accept the
Bank's assessment of the financial and managerial problems affecting the institution.
Only when the Government interventor took over the bank's management, serious
measures to solve the problems were adopted.  However, attempts at restructuring
BANADE were ultimately unsuccessful due to the difficulty of changing that bank's
entrenched culture. Eventually, it became evident to the Bank and the Borrower that
BANADE had to be closed.  However, as discussed in the previous section on
implementation, the cancellation of the loan was a complicated process due to the many
vested interests in preserving the Bank loan which at the time was the only source of
funds for BANADE.
1.62  One of the positive features of this loan was the development of FOPYME as a
wholesale development finance unit. Its staff implemented a methodology to qualify PBs
despite the lack of prudential banking regulations.  Regular reports on financial
conditions of these banks produced by FOPYME demonstrated good monitoring
performance. A selective review of subloan files showed that documentation procedures
were adequate.  Some of the PBs expressed positive comments regarding their
relationship with FOPYME. A number of PBs complained of inordinate delays in getting
BANADE's approval, although part of this problem may have been caused not by
FOPYME, but by the Bank's decision to slow down its own approvals during the hyper-
inflationary crisis in 1989. The Bank's decision was supposedly communicated to all
PBs, so that they could in turn advise their customers and possibly have considered other
alternative sources of financing. When the hyper-inflation caused major distortions in
the indexing of the subloans, FOPYME pressed for the option to dollarize the subloans,
and eventually succeeded in getting Bank approval.
1.63  Despite the good progress made by FOPYME in gaining acceptance as an
effective development finance unit, BANADE's crisis inevitably compromised its ability
to function adequately. FOPYME's staff had peaked at 15 persons during 1989, before
significant staff reductions were made as part of BANADE's restructuring efforts. The
cutback in human resources hindered FOPYME's ability to perform normal loan
supervision activities.  For example, in 1989 the unit developed a questionnaire to
supervise loan performance for BANADE and the PBs; however, subsequent staff



- 19 -
reductions prevented further work on this initiative.
1.64  Prior to loan cancellation, the Bank staff had considered transferring FOPYME
to another entity such as BNA. However, BNA had similar problems as BANADE in
that it was also a first-tier bank. At that time, the Bank's agricultural loan was having
problems with conflict of interest arising from BNA's dual role as project administrator
of the agricultural loan and direct lender.
1.65 The performance of the TA implementing agencies--SSME and INTI--was weak;
lack of institutional continuity caused the project's TA component to fail in meeting its
objectives.
J.    Project Relationship
1.66  Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank and between the Executing
Agency and the Bank were mixed. Relations between the Bank and BANADE were
affected by the Bank's insistence on measures to address the financial problems of that
institution. The Bank was in the difficult position of having to pressure the Government
to take action to resolve BANADE's problems. Tensions between the Bank and the
Borrower may have been caused in part by Government officials who consistently denied
the seriousness of BANADE's financial problems. On the other hand, FOPYME staff
worked closely with the Bank.
K.   Project Documentation and Data
1.67  The project appraisal report contained extensive information that proved useful
in identifying the Borrower's needs and in structuring the loan. The description of
FOPYME's mission statement was appropriate and facilitated the development of this
unit. However, the appraisal was somewhat inaccurate in its analysis and conclusions
regarding BANADE. In effect, the report assigned a satisfactory rating to that institution
despite serious loan portfolio problems.
1.68 The Loan Agreement provide for suspension of disbursements if BANADE failed
to comply with the financial covenants or whenever an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which would make it improbable that BANADE would be able to pursue its
obligations under the Project Agreement. As explained before, it was cumbersome for
the Bank to use the suspension clauses to suspend disbursements during initial stages of
the hyper-inflation crisis, when the effects of the crisis on BANADE were still unclear.
It would have been useful if the Loan Agreement had a review clause that would have
allowed the Bank to stop new commitments when the crisis started, while giving the
Bank time to initiate suspension procedures if the situation worsened.



- 20 -
1.69  The auditing arrangements of this loan were not fully satisfactory. As mentioned
before, SIGEP the Government auditing agency, was not inclined to sound the alarm
about the fact that BANADE's net worth was probably negative. Only when the Bank
pressed for a special audit of BANADE's compliance with the financial covenants, did
SIGEP produced a qualified report.
1.70  Basic data and statistics on the results of this loan were deficient. Financial data
on BANADE was not complete, i.e. external assets and liabilities were not available,
summary statistics of loan portfolio performance by aging were also not available.
Statistics on investment projects regarding projected employment compared with actual
results, sales growth, and rates of return calculations were not available. It was thus not
possible to assess the economic impact of this loan. The lack of basic data on the loan,
especially statistics, was due in large part to BANADE's institutional problems which
resulted in staff cutbacks.  However, the Bank could have been more persistent in
requesting summary statistics on a regular basis as a means of monitoring sub-loan
results and performance.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
3.1   Related Bank Loans
Loan Title      Purpose     Year of    Status    Comments
Approval
Industrial Credit   Credit Line  12/76    Closed   PPAR 10/91
Project                                 I         I
Second Industrial   Credit Line  04/81    Closed   PPAR 10/91
Credit Project
3.2   Proiect Timetable
Item             Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification                                 09/85
Preparation                                    03/86
Preparation                                    06/86
Appraisal Mission                              10/86
Loan Negotiations                              02/87
Board Approval                                 04/14/87
Loan Signature                                 12/21/87
Loan Effectiveness           03/22/88          04/08/88
Loan Closing                 06/30/94          06/01/93
Loan Completion              01/30/94          06/01/93



- 22 -
3.3   Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate      3.7   25.0   53.7   82.5   103.7   117.5  125.0
Actual                  8.0   19.8   37.5   61.1   63.9   63.9   60.8
Actual as % of Estimate   216.0   79.2   69.8   74.1   61.6   54.4   48.6
Date of First Disbursement                05/88
Date of Last Disbursement                 11/91
3.4   Project Estimated (Appraisal) Cost
(US$ Million)
Estimated            Local          Foreign          Total
Costs
Investment/Credit          114.9            130.0          244.9
TA                           3.5              1.6            5.1
Total                   118.4           131.6           250.0
3.5   Project Estimated (Appraisal) Financing
(US$ Million)
Estimated             Local        Foreign         Total
Financing
Bank                                          125.0         125.0
BANADE/BCRA/FOPYME              49.3            3.3          52.6
Government/INTI                  0.6            0.2           0.8
PBs                              9.3              -           9.3
SMIs                            59.2            3.1          62.3
Total                   118.4          131.6         250.0



- 23 -
3.6   Project Financine Planned and Actual
(US$ Million)
Source of Financing       Planned Allocation   Actual Allocation
Bank                                  125.0                60.8
BANADE/BCRA/FOPYME                     49.3               )37.4
GOV/INTI                                0.6
PBs                                     9.3                N.A.
3.7   Project Results
(US$'s)
Lender         No. of Loans      Amount"          Average
Subloan Amount
BANADE                     205          70,232,516        342,598
Other Banks
- Cooperatives             20           1,259,700         62,985
- Public Banks             42          6,368,651         151,635
- Private Banks            71         20,342,936         286,520
290,54
Total                    338         98,203,803         290,544
1/ Includes: Bank proceeds plus BANADE/BCRA/FOPYME funds, plus PB's funds.



- 24 -
3.8    Status of Covenants
Section                  Description                 Status of Compliance
Loan Agreement
2.02 (b)          The Borrower to open and maintain    Complied with.
a Special Account in dollars in the
Central Bank.
2.03              The Closing Date to be June 30,     Loan closed June 1, 1993.
1994.
3.01 (c)          The Borrower to transfer to INTI, as  Part B 2 (i) was not carried
grant, the amounts allocated from   out.
time to time to carry out Part B 2 (i)
of the Project.
3.02 (a)          The Borrower to transfer loan       Amended 1/16/88 to make
proceeds to Banco Central under the   the terms the same as those
same terms and conditions applicable  applicable to BANADE.
to the Loan.
Banco Central to relend loan        Complied with.
proceeds to BANADE under the
following conditions:
* loans made and repayable in
Australes.
* interest applicable on outstanding
principal adjusted for inflation on the
basis of the Combined Index.
* interest rate initially of 7% p.a. on
funds to be used by BANADE for
purposes of Parts A (1) (ii) and 2
and B (1) of the Project.
* interest rate initially of 4% p.a.
for purposes of Part A (1) (i) and (3)
of the Project.



- 25 -
4.01 (a)       Maintenance of separate records and      Complied with concerning
accounts of SSME and INTI in respect of  SSME but not INTI.
Part B (2) of the Project
4.01 (b)      Furnish to the Bank by April 30 audit     Complied with audit of
reports on the accounts referred to in 4.01    the Special Account (last
(a) including the Special Account.       audit for period ending
31/1992). Not complied
with audit of SSME.
4.01 (c)       Audits of SOEs to be included in annual  Not complied with respect
audits referred to in 4.01 (b).          to SSME.
6.03          Effectiveness Date is: March 22, 1998.    Effectiveness declared
04/08/88.
Schedule 1    Bank resources to finance 60% of          60% was taken as a
expenditures for each subproject up to   maximum with many
aggregate amount of US$62.5 million and    subprojects below 60%
40% of expenditures of each subproject   Bank financing.
financed thereafter.
Working capital subloans not to exceed the    Complied with.
accumulated amount of US$30.775 million.
The Borrower to present evidence that it has  Not complied with.
entered into a contractual agreement with
INTI, and that INTI's Board of Directors
has approved plans for its center for
research of methods and techniques for
SMESs and its Management Advisory
Program.
Schedule 2    Project consists of two parts:            Partially complied with.
Only Part A and Part B
Part A financing of:                     (2) (ii) were implemented.
* fixed assets and related permanent
working capital of SMSEs.
* permanent incremental working capital of
SMSEs.
* technical assistance to SMSEs.



- 26 -
Part B financing of:
(1) strengthening BANADE's capabilities to
provide TA to SMSEs.
(2) (i) strengthening INTI's capabilities to
assist SMSEs.
(2) (ii) strengthen SSME's capabilities to
provide technical assistance to SMSEs.
Schedule 4    Authorized allocation of US$8.0 million to be  Complied with.
deposited in the Special Account.
Project
Agreement
2.01 (a)     BANADE to carry out Part A of the Project   Complied with respect
through FOPYME and Part B (1) through      to Part A only.
FOPYME and other departments or units.
2.05 (a)     BANADE to enter into Participation          Complied with.
Agreements with Participating banks.
2.8          BANADE to review at least every June 30     Partially complied
and December 31 the appropriateness of     with. Reviews failed
interest rates on Participating Loans and sub-  to expose increasing
loans; exchange views with the Bank on the    problems with pricing
results; and revise such interest rates as  mechanism.
required.
3.01         BANADE to carry out its operations and      Not complied with.
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative and financial practices.
4. 01 (a)    BANADE to maintain procedures and           Partially complied
separate records and accounts to monitor   with. Procedures and
progress of Part A and B (1) of the Project.   record keeping
deteriorated with
BANADE's crisis.
4. 01 (b)    BANADE to furnish to the Bank by April 30   Partially complied
audit reports of its records accounts and  with. Last audit of
financial statements.                      financial statements
submitted was for year
ending 12/1991.



- 27 -
4.01 (c)        Audits of SOEs to be included in annual    Complied with. Last
audits referred to in 4.01 (b).        audit of SOEs submitted
was for year ending
12/1992.
4.02 (a)        BANADE to maintain the following ratios   Not complied with.
from December 1987 and thereafter:
* Consolidated long-term unsecured debt
to capital: 8 to 1.
* Consolidated unsecured debt to capital:
12 to 1.
* Consolidated long-term debt to capital:
20 to 1.
Schedule 1      Subloans to be made in Australes and    Pricing mechanism
principal repayments thereunder to be   amended in 12/23/1991 to
adjusted for inflation on the basis of the  allow for dollar lending.
variations of the Combined Index.
Schedule 2      Maximum term on subloans:               Complied with.
* Financing of fixed assets: 10 years with
up to 3 years grace.
* Working capital: 3 years with up to 6
months grace.
* TA subloans: 5 years with up to 1 year
grace.
Schedule 3     Interests on subloans to be applied to a  Pricing mechanism
principal amount adjusted for inflation on    amended in 12/23/1991.
the basis of the Combined Index. An
interest rate of 8% p.a. on the adjusted
amount for subloans to finance fixed assets
and TA, and of 12% p.a. for subloans to
finance working capital.
Schedule 4     Interest rate spreads between Participating   Complied with.
Loans and the corresponding subloans to
be 3.75 percentage points.
Schedule 5     Participating banks to pay BANADE a      Complied with.
commitment charge not exceeding 1 % p.a.
on the principal amount of each
Participating Loan not withdrawn.



- 28 -
Schedule 6     Subloan limits:                           Complied with.
* Up to 80% of cost of subproject for
existing SMSE.
* Up to 60% of cost of subproject for new
SMSE.
* Up to US$2.0 million in respect to
investment subloans.
* Up to US$1.0 million in respect of
working capital subloans.
* Up to US$0.2 million in respect of TA
subloans.
Subloans to an industrial enterprise not to
exceed US$2.0 million.
The permanent working capital component
not to exceed 50% of a subloan.
Schedule 9     Free limit subloan: US$500,000 cumulative  Complied with.
of all subloans to a subborrower.
Schedule 10    Last date for presentation of subloan     Extended to 12/31/1991.
applications: December 31, 1990.
3.9    Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle         Period (FY)       Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                        86-87            49.7
Appraisal through Board Approval          87               37.2
Supervision                              87-92            61.0
PCR                                      93-94              6.4
Total                           86-94            154.3



- 29 -
3.10   Missions
Month/    Number    Number         Staff     Dates of    Overall
Activity        Year         of          of       Weeks       Report    Project
Persons    Weeks                              Status
Rating
Identification       03/86         4        2 1/2        10        04/86
Pre-appraisal        06/86         4        2 1/2        10        08/86
Appraisal            09/86         4        3 1/2        14        03/87         -
Supervision           12/88        1          1           1        01/89        2
Supervision          05/89         1          2          2         06/89        2
Supervision          09/89         3          2           6        10/89        2
Supervision          03/91         2          1           2        04/91        3



- 30 -
ANNEX I: SUMMARY OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE LOAN
Loan Amount:             US$125 million equivalent.
Borrower           Republic of Argentina.
Term and Rate:     Repayable over 15 years with 3 years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Effectiveness:     Upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
* Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
* that BANADE's Board has established FOPYME.
* that FOPYME  has approved sub-project appraisal
guidelines.
* that BANADE has signed Participation Agreement with
at least four PBs.
* that BANADE  has revised  policy  on loan loss
provisions.
Allocation:
Category 1:        US$123.1 million to finance up to 60% of expenditures for
each sub-project financed under sub-loans up to US$62.5
million; and 40% of expenditures thereafter, thus the Bank
would on average finance 50% of the project costs. Funds
to be applied towards the purchase of fixed assets, of
permanent incremental working capital (up to a grand total
of U$30.775 million), and the financing of technical
assistance for SMSEs.
Category 2:        US$1.9 million to finance technical assistance to: (i)
strengthen BANADE's capabilities to provide assistance to
SMSEs and to PBs and to carry out sub-sectoral analysis;
(ii) help INTI to implement technical training programs for
SMSEs and address deficiencies in INTI's own training
programs; and (iii) support the creation of a network of
Regional Technical Assistance Centers within the Sub-
Secretariat for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises.
Special Account:    To be opened in the BCRA in dollars, with an authorized
amount of US$8.0 million to be replenished based on
proper documents in evidence of expenses associated with
subloans.



- 31 -
Subsidiary Loan:
Description:       A loan from the Borrower, through BCRA, to BANADE,
as project administrator, denominated in Australes [pesos].
Loan to be governed by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Term:              Same as the Bank loan.
Interest Rate:     To be applied to the principal amount adjusted for inflation
on the basis of the Combined Index (the percentage rate of
variations of the combined wholesale and consumer prices
as calculated by BCRA).  An interest rate of 7%  per
annum on the adjusted amount for funds used by BANADE
to finance permanent working capital requirements as well
as the technical assistance component dealing with the
strengthening of BANADE's capabilities; and an interest
rate of 4% per annum for funds used by BANADE to
finance fixed assets and technical assistance directly to
SMSEs. These rates to be reviewed semiannually.
Participating Loan:
Description:       A loan made by BANADE to a PB, financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan, governed by a Participating
Agreement between BANADE and the PB. The PB to act
as subloan originator and servicing agent, and to assume
full commercial risk of the underlying subloan. PBs were
to relend at least 25 % of the total Loan amount; BANADE
was to relend the remaining portion as a first-tier bank.
Conditions:        Same as those applicable to the corresponding subloan as
explained below.
Interest spread:   BANADE to charge an interest rate to the PB equal to the
rate applicable to the subloan less a spread of 3.75
percentage points to be earned  by the PB.   The
appropriateness of this rate is to be reviewed twice per
year.
Fee:               A commitment charge of 1 % per annum  on the un-
withdrawn amount of the Participating Loan.



- 32 -
Subloan:
Description:      A loan from a PB to an SMSE denominated in Australes
[as of 11/91: Australes, pesos or dollars].
Term:             Maximum terms on subloans:
_ Financing of fixed assets: 10 years, with up to 3 years
grace.
- Working Capital sub-loans: 3 years, with up to 6
months grace.
Technical Assistance sub-loans: 5 years, with up to 1
year grace.
Interest:         To be applied to a principal amount adjusted for inflation
on the basis of the Combined Index (the percentage rate of
variations of the combined wholesale and consumer prices
as calculated by BCRA). An interest rate of 8% per
annum to be charged on the adjusted amount for subloans
to finance fixed assets and technical assistance, and of 12%
per annum for subloans to finance working capital. The
appropriateness of this rate is to be reviewed twice per
year.
Fee:               A commitment fee of 1 % per annum on the un-withdrawn
amount of the subloan.
Loan Limits:      In terms of type of borrower:
U Up to 80% of cost of subproject for existing SMSE.
U Up to 60% of cost of subproject for new SMSE.
In terms of purpose of the loan:
US$2.0 million in respect of an investment subloan.
US$1.0 million in respect of a working capital subloan.
US$0.2 million in respect of a technical assistance
subloan.
In terms of accumulated lending to one borrower:
Accumulated amount of all subloans to one borrower
not to exceed US$2.0 million.
In the case of an investment subloan, the working capital
component was not to exceed 50% of the sub-loan amount.



- 33 -
Free Limits:       A  loan approval limit for a PB of US$0.5 million
cumulative of all subloans to one borrower. Any subloans
beyond this limit require prior Bank authorization.
Co-Participation:   [No conditions were specified in the Agreement, although
they were incorporated in the Participation Agreement].
Supervision:       BANADE  was to maintain procedures, records and
accounts to monitor and record progress on each
investment project.
Documentation:     For a free limit subloan the information to be provided by
the PB to BANADE, which in turn would submit it to the
Bank for final approval, included a summary description of
the expenditures proposed to be finance out of the proceeds
of the subloan and the terms and conditions of the subloan.
For a subloan above the free limit, the information
included: (i) a description of the borrower and appraisal of
the project; and (ii) proposed terms and conditions of the
subloan.
Eligibility:       To qualify for a subloan an investment enterprise had to be
considered a SMSE with primary business activity in the
industrial sector. Definitions:
Small scale enterprises: fixed assets not exceeding the
equivalent of US$350,000, excluding land and
buildings;
Medium scale enterprises: fixed assets greater than
US$350,000, but not exceeding US$3.0 million
excluding land and buildings.
Conditionalitv:
BANADE' s
Financials:        According to the Project Agreement, BANADE was to
maintain the following ratios from December 1987 and
thereafter:
Consolidated long-term unsecured debt to capital: 8 to
1.
Consolidated unsecured debt to capital of 12 to 1.
Consolidated long-term debt to capital of 20 to 1.



- 34 -
Interest Rates:     BANADE was to review interest rates applicable to the
Subsidiary Loan and Subloans at least twice a year and
revise rates as required by the following criteria:
_ Interest rates must: (i) be higher than prevailing average
interest rates on deposits--if such deposit rate is, in the
opinion  of  the  Bank,  conducive  to  resource
mobilization; or (ii) cover BANADE's and PB's cost of
funds as measured in a form satisfactory to the Bank.



- 35 -
ANNEX II: BANADE'S FINANCIAL CRISIS
1.    This section describes the evolution of BANADE's financial performance with
special emphasis on the latter period, when the institution experienced a severe financial
crisis which eventually led to its liquidation and consequent cancellation of the Bank's
loan.
Background
2.    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) was founded in 1944 as Banco
Industrial, to serve as an autonomous Government-owned industrial development bank.
The name was subsequently changed to Banco Industrial de la Republica and then to
BANADE in 1970. BANADE had been chronically troubled since its establishment,
partly because macroeconomic instability made it difficult to secure finance and made its
assets excessively risky, but also because management had never succeeded in
streamlining and modernizing its operations. In addition, successive governments had
used the institution to channel subsidized credit and to rescue failing industrial
enterprises. During the mid-1980's it had come to rely on BCRA rediscounts for its
funding due to insufficient funding (mostly comprised of external credits) and to a rapidly
deteriorating asset portfolio.
3.    BANADE's role in resource mobilization had been focused on capturing specific
lines of credit mostly from multilateral and bilateral lending agencies, such as the Bank
and the Interamerican Development Bank. In this regard, it was the only domestic
institution providing medium and long-term financing to the industrial sector.
BANADE's local deposit base was negligible representing less than 5% of total financial
liabilities.
4.    At the time of appraisal, BANADE operated through its headquarters and 33
provincial offices, with about 3,600 employees. Operating in a shrinking financial
market during the 1980's, BANADE had managed to somewhat maintain its asset size
and the level of its operations.  Reflecting the events of the Argentine economy,
BANADE's financial structure experienced significant deterioration during the 1980s.
Nevertheless, the Bank's appraisal report evaluated BANADE's overall portfolio
exposure/quality as relatively acceptable--although it pointed out that the 50 largest
borrowers accounted for about 60% of the loan portfolio and these had been principally
responsible for BANADE's high loan arrears ratio of 16% of total loans--and concluded
that BANADE's loan loss provisions policies and the level of provisions were relatively
satisfactory.



- 36 -
Origins of the Crisis
5.    Indications of BANADE's growing crisis appeared in the financial statements for
the first half of 1988. A loss was reported for the first half of that year of US$87.7
million. The real situation was much more serious because the financial reports had been
prepared on an accruals basis of accounting, and thus did not adequately represent the
actual cash gains and losses of the institution. More importantly, the initial losses
reported during the first half of 1988 were only the first signals of a severe portfolio
imbalance that had accumulated over many years of inadequate policies. Loan approvals
to high risk borrowers had in many instances been instigated directly by the Board of
Directors against the recommendations of the bank's staff. BANADE's situation became
more precarious during the hyper-inflation period in 1989.
6.    BANADE's problems resulted from the low quality of the loan portfolio which
resulted in a lack liquidity that was eventually exacerbated by a high degree of economic
instability. The key problem areas are outlined below.
BANADE: Summar of Key Financial Problems
7.    Asset Quality:      A large proportion of BANADE's loans were to money
losing industrial enterprises that did not have the financial
strength to repay their loans.
BANADE's loan classification and loan loss provisions
policies and procedures were inadequate, obscuring the full
extent of the portfolio problems.
Liquidity:          Large maturity gap caused by increasing reliance on short-
term funding. Historically BANADE had been overly
dependent on  external sources of funding.   When
availability from these sources diminished, BANADE had
to access volatile short-term funds. Also, substantial loan
arrears made its assets illiquid.
Interest rate risk was intensified by the high inflationary
environment and the mismatch between short-term nominal
rates on liabilities and indexed real rates on assets.
Exchange rate risk was above acceptable levels due to
reliance on foreign currency liabilities to finance local
currency assets.



- 37 -
Management:        High degree of institutional inflexibility.  Low  staff
turnover  with  limited   management  training  and
development.  Information  systems were not up to
standards of other banks, although some progress was
being made at the time of loan appraisal. Political factors
had dictated Board decisions on institutional policies.
Earnings:          Earnings began to deteriorate in 1988; however, inadequate
recognition of asset quality problems had led to overstating
of operating income in prior years.
Capital:           At the time of the financial crisis, BANADE's capital was
insufficient to absorb the losses. Its precarious financial
condition prevented access to additional capital, although
some creative financial transactions were attempted in order
to buttress its equity position.
8.    Asset Quality. BANADE's poor overall portfolio quality was the principal cause
of its financial crisis. Inadequate policies and procedures on loan classification, loan loss
provisioning, and loan recovery precluded effective management action to remedy the
loan quality problems. One of the principal shortcomings of the credit review process
was that only loans to firms in liquidation or under legal procedures were classified as
non-performing, while loans in arrears continued to accrue interest, even if the
fundamentals of the borrower pointed to an inability to return to normal debt servicing
capacity. In April, 1988, BCRA Circular Al 171 established minimum criteria for loan
loss provisions. Banks were required to begin provisioning for loans past due 24 months
on the basis of 1/12th the value of the loan per month until 100% reserves were
achieved. At that time, BANADE decided not to follow these criteria but to rely on their
own internal assessment of the quality of each individual loan, even though they could
be more than 24 months overdue.
9.    According to a previous Bank analysis (October 1988), portfolio quality was
affected by: (i) portfolio concentration; (ii) inadequate portfolio recovery planning; and
(iii) inadequate portfolio management and control. BANADE's credit to its 50 largest
debtors, of which 52 % were in arrears, represented nearly 75 % of its portfolio. Credit
relationships between BANADE and its largest debtors were marked by political
favoritism which held up the normal process of loan rescheduling and recovery. Those
credit problems that originated during previous bank administrations were blamed on the
past, but little interest was shown in normalizing or resolving the problem up until
BANADE was intervened by the Government.
10.   Another major complication arose from the refusal by the Ministry of Finance to
comply with its guarantees for loans BANADE had made to private as well as public



- 38 -
sector enterprises. After the introduction of the Plan Austral in June 1985, the newly
appointed Minister of Finance announced that the Government would no longer cover any
claims under previously issued guarantees to BANADE. This meant that whenever a
borrower did not meet its debt obligations and the underlying guarantees were
uncollectible, BANADE had to resort to BCRA rediscounts, to the extent possible, in
order to continue normal servicing of its own liabilities.
11.   According to the above mentioned Bank study of BANADE, due to the
Government's refusal to comply with its guarantees, non-performing loans could easily
have exceeded 50% of the loan portfolio. Yet the financial statements showed that
reserves to loans were a minimal 7.77% in 1988 (see ANNEX Table 3). Prudent
banking practices would have dictated a minimum reserve ratio of 30% of loans.
Clearly, the bank was grossly understating its potential losses from loans.
12.   Liquidity. Previous analyses of BANADE's financials refer to chronic cash flow
problems arising from asset illiquidity. This problem had its roots in the management
of the bank's assets and liabilities resulting in a huge maturity gap. To the extent that
loans were reported on an accruals basis, even though they were substantially in arrears,
or had been restructured, the validity of the bank's financial statements were highly
misleading. The ballooning of loan arrears, combined with the refusal by the Ministry
of Finance to make good on the guarantees, resulted in minimal cash flow from assets.
On the other hand, the rigid liability base of the bank, mostly foreign loans with very
limited domestic deposit capability, greatly reduced BANADE's flexibility. Thus, the
only realistic option was to resort to BCRA's rediscount facility to remedy the lack of
liquidity. Eventually, accumulated arrears with BCRA contributed to BANADE's
financial problems.
13.   BANADE's focus on providing medium- and long-term financing resulted in a
high level of interest rate risk which commercial banks had traditionally avoided by
managing their balance sheets on a purely short-term basis. While a major portion of
its liabilities were in the form of medium-term financing from multilateral and bilateral
lending agencies, the acute liquidity problems described above led to increasing reliance
on short-term funds whose costs were subject to dramatic swings. Another complication
arose from  the method used in pricing assets and liabilities.  For instance, some
instruments were indexed, with the principal amount adjusted by inflation, or the
variation in the exchange rate, while others were priced at a nominal interest rate which
reflected both the inflation and the real interest rate factors. The absence of a clear
policy on the management of interest rate risk resulted in significant losses to the bank.
14.   Foreign exchange risk contributed to BANADE's losses. However, at the time
of this PCR, no information was available on BANADE's net foreign exchange position.
BANADE officials have commented that the foreign exchange position had varied from
year to year. Thus, the net effect on profitability must have similarly fluctuated.



- 39 -
BANADE did maintain a non-interest bearing claim on BCRA of approximately US$579
million in 1988 as a result of foreign exchange guarantee contracts dating back to the
early 1980's, and for which BANADE had assumed the liability to the external creditor.
15.   Management. BANADE's organization chart followed a classic development
bank scheme. In 1989, total staff exceeded 3,000, with little turnover. Salaries were
lower than those offered by the private sector, yet the bank offered attractive fringe
benefits. Internal procedures were defined extensively in a huge Operations Manual
which had not been updated for a long time. BANADE's Board of Directors was
ultimately responsible for the management of the bank, although Senior Management had
the responsibility for implementing day-to-day decisions, and advising the Board on
critical issues affecting the bank. Most analyses of BANADE performed by various
supervision missions pointed to organizational rigidities, and to a lack of experience in
meeting the changing demands of the marketplace. In effect, BANADE's management
was ill-equipped for dealing with the financial weakening of its loan portfolio. This was
due in part to an unresponsive organizational structure and to outdated procedures in
credit classification and administration.
16.   More importantly, BANADE's demise was triggered by Senior Management's
failure to anticipate critical problems; and perhaps more critically, by a lack of fiduciary
responsibility exhibited by a politically appointed Board of Directors. While a final
assessment of BANADE's downfall may never be completed, this report recognizes that
the bank counted with many well trained and loyal staff, including mid-level
management, that performed their responsibilities in an exemplary manner, and that their
well prepared recommendations may have often been ignored by higher level
management.
17.   Earnings. Historically, BANADE's reported earnings had presented a distorted
view of the bank's financial situation. Interest income was accrued on a sizeable portion
of the loan portfolio that was in fact non-performing. Insufficient provisioning for loan
losses combined with the over-accruing of interest income projected a much more
favorable outcome in terms of earnings.  Inadequate treatment of "de facto" non-
performing loans grossly overstated net interest margins, and under-stated non-interest
expenses as a proportion of adjusted income. While the first annual losses were reported
in 1990, the bank actually incurred a loss in the previous year that was hidden by the
extraordinary gains from a number of debt swaps arranged by BANADE by which clients
in arrears repaid their loans with rescheduled external debt papers of the Republic of
Argentina (traded at the time at about 6% of their face value). The swaps resulted in an
accounting gain, but not an economic gain for the bank. Overall, it is difficult to
separate the bank's earnings performance from the underlying problem of asset quality.
18.   Capital. According to the reported financial statements, BANADE's debt to
equity ratio were in compliance with the Loan Agreement's covenant until 1991. This



- 40 -
was an overstatement of BANADE's capital position. Clearly, if the bank had properly
recognized the loan quality problems by provisioning a reasonable amount against non-
performing loans, the consequent losses would have de-capitalized the institution.
Response to the Crisis
19.   The hyper-inflationary period during 1989 further debilitated BANADE's
finances. Despite efforts to restructure, it was too late to achieve a turn around of the
significantly weakened institution. While the financial statements showed a modest profit
in 1989, these were due to a one time swap transaction engineered to prevent further
hemorrhaging. BANADE's staff had devised a debt swap operation that produced an
accounting gain. The swap transactions involved a number of large borrowers that were
in substantial arrears, and for which the bank had already significantly reserved for
losses. The basic operation consisted of the borrower exchanging Republic of Argentina
rescheduled external debt, which it obtained in the secondary market at a very deep
discount, plus a certain amount in cash, for its own obligation to BANADE. BANADE
treated the transaction as a swap of equal nominal values, with the difference that the
new asset it received from the borrower had the guarantee of the Republic of Argentina.
To the extent that the original loan had been partially written down, the swap produced
a double gain: the higher nominal value of the Republic of Argentina debt paper
presented by the borrower plus cash, and the recovery of the loan amount which had
already been written down. However, the gains produced by the swap operation were
actually accounting gains derived from the assumption that both types of loans would
have eventually been paid off. Normally, these swaps should have been recorded at the
corresponding market values of the debt instruments--as commercial bank creditors have
typically done in reserving against Argentina's external debt. In that case the gains
realized from the swaps, if any, would have been much lower.
20.   Once the financial media revealed BANADE's problems, a number of borrowers
saw this as an opportunity to stop making payments on their loans. They based their
actions on the expectation that if BANADE had to be intervened and eventually
liquidated, the process of resolving all pending debts would drag on for years. Thus, any
borrower in arrears would be at an advantage in negotiating a final settlement during the
liquidation phase.
21.   The first definitive step towards resolving BANADE's crisis was taken in March
1990, when the Government issued Decree 435 calling for an end to BCRA's rediscount
facility for BANADE and named the Ministry of the Economy as the Interventor of the
bank. Subsequently, in May of that year, Decree 866 outlined additional steps that would
be taken as a result of the intervention. These included the following:
*     The closure of all branches.
*     Sale of BANADE's portfolio.



- 41 -
*     Reorganization of the bank into a wholesale operation.
*     However, BANADE was still permitted to lend to medium scale industrial
enterprises until January 1994.
*     Government debts to BANADE would be settled with Government
Consolidation Bonds.
*     BANADE was to produce an action plan to implement the reorganization
within 60 days.
22.   BANADE's attempts at a restructuring were not successful. As a result, the
Government issued a new Decree (No. 1504) in August 1992, which called for the
merger of BANADE into BNA. BNA was named administrator of BANADE and
assigned 180 days to determine the appropriate allocation of BANADE's assets and
liabilities in consultation with the Ministry of the Economy.
23.   Finally, in May 1993, the Government decreed the dissolution and subsequent
liquidation of BANADE and its remaining assets and liabilities.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
ANNEX TABLE 1
BANADE: STATEMENT OF CONDITION
(Thousand of US$'s)
1988        1989         1990         1991
Cash and due from Banks               131,016      34,358       56,385       42,605
Investments in Other Co.'s             68,380      46,806       80,146       95,790
Less: Reserves for Losses            43,773       29,714       57,271       59,532
Government Securities                   9,794      16,814       10,729        7,521
Total Net Investments                34,401       33,906       33,604       43,779
Loans:
Commercial & Industrial            2,223,519    1,837,470    1,965,045   2,050,946
Plus: Inflation Adj. + Cu        1,358,222     331,274     990,976       938,737
Less: Loan Reserves               401,935       88,071     442,096       774,343
Other Loans                         1,532,225     869,134      838,537      833,478
Plus: Inflation Adj. + Cu           211,729      157,054     421,099       525,952
Less: Loan Reserves                  12,031        2,146       6,639        29,163
Total Net Loans                    4,911,729    3,104,716    3,766,922   3,545,607
Fixed Assets                           29,323      14,792       42,321       36,238
Other Assets                           14,087       5,924       21,249       38,569
TOTAL ASSETS                        5,120,556    3,193,697    3,920,480    3,706,798
Deposits                              180,411      24,549       86,789      141,495
Plus: Inflation Adj. + Curr          24,184       16,715       15,091        5,858
Other Financial Liabilities
Due to Financial Institution              0    1,741,912    1,938,820    2,025,511
Other                              3,772,249     522,710     665,612       591,332
Plus: Inflation Adj. + Curr        788,936     433,859      643,397      697,699
Total Other Financial Liabilities  4,561,185    2,698,481    3,247,829  3,314,543
Other Liabilities                      30,774       9,522      125,864       85,259
Stockholders Equity                   323,881     444,430      444,908      159,644
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  5,120,435    3,193,697    3,920,480    3,706,798
Memo:                                             516,413      496,031      497,866
Net Position BCRA                   812,213



- 43 -
ANNEX II
ANNEX TABLE 2
BANADE: STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Thousands of US$'s)
1988          1989          1990          1991
Interest Income                  2,824,244     1,426,153     2,473,818        828,136
Interest Expense                 1,929,323       922,494       635,422        269,517
Net Interest Income               894,921       503,659     1,838,396        558,619
Less: Loan Loss Provisions       602,177        251,480       667,659        701,773
Net Interest Income After P      292,745        252,179     1,170,736      (143,155)
Non-Interest Income:
Commissions                        20,556        18,941        50,761         25,803
Other                               1,028          590          3,774          1,829
Total Non-Interest Income          21,584        19,531        54,535         27,633
Non-Interest Expenses:
Personnel                          36,336        14,361        34,096         26,613
Commissions                         3,265          872           411           2,161
Other Expenses                    24,002          9,560        54,939         16,941
Total Non-Interest Expenses        63,603        24,793        89,446         45,715
Inflation Adjustments             (260,459)     (291,008)   (1,264,228)      (111,309)
Extraordinary Gains (+)/Losses      29,565       322,066      (78,389)          2,175
NET INCOME                         19,831       277,975     (206,792)      (270,371)



- 44 -
ANNEX II
ANNEX TABLE 3
BANADE: SELECTED RATIOS
1988       1989       1990        1991
Return on Assets (%)                  0.39       8.70        -5.27      -7.29
Return on Equity (%)                  6.12      62.55       -46.48    -169.36
Net Interest Margin (%)              16.17      15.30       42.14       12.43
Non-Interest Exp's/Adj. Income        6.94       4.74        4.73        7.80
Personnel to Tot. Non-Int. Exp       57.13      57.92       38.12       58.22
Reserve to Loans (%)                  7.77       2.82        10.64      18.48
Provision to Loans (%)               15.18       8.78       20.70       20.58
Gov. Sec's to Assets (%)              0.19       0.53        0.27        0.20
Deposit/Tot. Financial Liabilities    4.29        1.51       3.04        4.26
Capital to Assets (%)                 6.33      13.92        11.35       4.31
* NOTE: Adjusted Income is non-interest income plus net interest before provision.



ANNEX IH: LOAN STATISTICS
TABLE 1: LOAN STATISTICS BY BORROWER AND LENDER
(US$'s)
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISES            MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISES                  TOTAL SMSE LOANS
No. of                 Average      No. of                  Average     No. of                   Average
Loans      Amount        Loan       Loans      Amount        Loan       Loans       Amount        Loan
Amount                              Amount                               Amount
BANADE                     158    42,009,612    265,884        47      28,222,904    600,487       205      70,232,516    342,598
Other Banks
Cooperatives              18      1,136,702     63,150         2        122,998      61,499        20       1,259,700     62,985
Public Banks              26      2,750,726    105,797        16      3,617,925    226,120         42       6,368,651    151,635
Private Banks             39      7,045,401     180,651       32      13,297,535    415,548        71      20,342,936    286,520
Total Other Banks         83    10,932,829    131,721         50      17,038,458    340,769       133      27,971,287    210,310
TOTAL                 241    52,942,441    219,678        97      45,261,362    466,612       338      98,203,803    290,544
PERCENT STRUCTURE
BANADE                    65.6         79.3                    48.5         62.4                   60.7          71.5
Other Banks:
Cooperatives              7.5          2.1                     2.1          0.3                    5.9           1.3
Public Banks             10.8          5.2                    16.5          8.0                   12.4          6.5
Private Banks            16.2         13.3                    33.0         29.4                   21.0         20.7
Total Other Banks        34.4         20.7                    51.5         37.6                   39.3         28.5
TOTAL                 100.0        100.0                   100.0        100.0                  100.0        100.0
Source: FOPYME's records.



- 46 -
TABLE 2: SELECTED LOAN STATISTICS
No.                                               Average
of         % of        Amount        Total         Loan
Loans       Total
Amount
Central Region            228         67.5     62,457,208        63.6      273,935
Noa Region                 43          12.7     17,762,819       18.1      413,089
Cuyo Region                36          10.7     12,833,585       13.1      356,488
Nea Region                 18          5.3      2,817,062         2.9       156,503
Patagonia                  13          3.8      2,333,129         2.4       179,471
TOTAL                   338        1100.0    98,203,803       100.0      290,544
Source: FOPYME's Records.
TABLE 3: SELECTED LOAN STATISTICS
No.                                           Average
of         % of      Amount       Total       Loan
Loans       Total
Amount
Fishing                       3             0.9    1,100,000     1.1       366,667
Mining                        9             2.7    4,366,299     4.4       485,144
Food & Beverages             89            26.3   26,122,130     26.6      293,507
Textiles & Leather Pro       26             7.7    8,104,552     8.3       311,714
Wood & Furniture             12             3.6    1,516,771     1.5        126,398
Paper & Products             19             5.6    4,584,616     4.7       241,296
Mineral Products             55            16.3   18,406,160     18.7      334,657
Basic Metals                 14             4.1    5,559,420     5.7       397,101
Machinery & Equipment         9             2.7    3,017,063     3.1       335,229
Electricity, Gas & Steel     61            18.0   16,538,164     16.8      271,117
Construction                 12             3.6    5,665,340     5.8       472,112
Other                        20             5.9    2,880,744     2.9        144,037
9            2.7      342,544      0.3        38,060
TOTAL                    338           100.0  98,203,803     100.0       290,544
Source: FOPYME's Records.



