Dosmmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6547-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
March 12, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        Austral (A)
Exchange Rate Effective Deeember 4, 1986
US$1.00 (sale)       -        1.165 Austral
1.00 Austral         -        US$0.858
US$1.00 (buy)        -        1.185 Austral
1.00 Austral         -        US$0.844
Glossasy of Abbreviations
ARGEX      -   Argentina's Export Program
BANADE     -   National Development Bank
BCRA       -   Central Bank of Argentina
CEDE/ACDE  -   Centro de Desarrollo Empresarial/Asoc.Cristiana de Empresarios
(Center for Entrepreneurial Development/Christian Association
of Entrepreneurs)
CEPADE     -   Centro de Perfeccionamiento en Administracion de Enpresas
(Business Administration Development Center)
CID        -   Research Documentation Center
CIME       -   Center for Research of Methods and Techniques for SMIs
CITSAFE    -   Technological Research Center of Santa Fe
CU         -   Central Unit (at SSME)
EPP        -   Export Promotion Project
EPPs       -   Export Promotion Programs
ERR        -   Economic Rate of Return
FOPYME     -   Development Fund for SMIs
FRR        -   Financial Rate of Return
FSWC       -   Free-Standing Working Capital
TCB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IFC        -   International Finance Corporation
INTI       -   National Institute of Industrial Technology
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
MAP        -   Management Advisory Program
NDPD       -   National Director of Promotion and Development (at INTI)
PBs        -   Participating Commercial and Regional Banks
PRT        -   Project Related Training
RPRs       -   Regional Promotion Regimes
RTACs      -   Regional Technical Assistance Centers
SIT        -   Secretariat of Industry and Trade
SMI        -   Small and Medium-Scale Industry
SPRs       -   Sectoral Promotion Regimes
SSME       -   Sub-Secretariat for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
(at SIT)
TA         -   Technical Assistance
TPL        -   Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan
VAT        -   Value-added tax
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31.



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................                    I
II. INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS                     ..                       1
A. Industrial Sector ...................              ,      .1
(i) Sectoral Context ...............1....,., ...... l
- Background .1...... l
- Industrial policies .............................                 1
(ii) SMIs' Structure and Development ...................                  2
- Background .......... I . ...........................             2
- SMIs' investment and credit demand .....          .........       2
- Technical assistance (TA) .......................                 3
- SMIs' prospects and longer-term development
constraints ............        .........................         3
B. Financial Sector  ......................................                 3
C. Bank Involvement in the Industrial Sector .......... ...                 4
III. PROPOSED PROJECT    ...................................... .                 6
A. Project Preparation ........ ...............                               6
B. Project Objectives and Description                  .        .             6
(i) Project Objectives ................................                 6
(ii) Project Description .......................,,,.,.,                   6
- Financial assistance component .....           .............      6
- TA component .............,,.,                                    6
This report is based upon the findings of a mission which visited Argentina in
October 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Alonso (from the Bank) and
R. Hommes, F. Ibanez and I. Rizo (Consultants). Ms. Virginia Foster assisted in
editing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C. Project Execution .          .....................................       7
(i) Participating Institutions ........................                7
- Development Fund for SMIs (FOPYME) ....          ..........     7
- Intermediary institutions ...........   I   ...........         7
BANADE ...........         ...............................       7
- TA institutions .................................               8
(ii) Executing Agencies ................................                9
D. Project Cost and Financing Arrangements ................                 9
(i) Project Cost and Financing ........................                9
(ii) Onlending Arrangements ............................                9
(iii) Terms and Conditions of Financing   .             .               10
- Nature of enterprises ...........................              10
- Limits and terms ................................              10
- Interest rates ..................................              10
(iv) Procurement .......................................               11
(v) Disbursements .....................................               12
(vi) Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .....           ...........    12
E. Benefits and Risks        ................... ..................       13
IV.  RECOMMENDATIONS            ..........................................     13
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1            Industrial Policy - Summary
Annsx 2            Expected SMI Investment
Annex 3            Technical Assistance (TA)
Annex 4            Development Fund for SMIs (FOPYME)
Annex 5            National Development Bank (BANADE)
Annex 6            Key Indicators for Project Implementation
and Reporting Requirements
Annex 7
TI         Development Fund for SMIs (FOPYME)
T2         National Development Bank (BANADE):  Balance Sheets
T3         National Development Bank (BANADE):  Income Statements
T4         Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 8            Documents Available in Project File
MAP



ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
T. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:   The Argentine Republic
EXECUTING   National Development Bank (BANADE)/Development Fund for SMI (FOPYME),
AGENCIES:   Subsecretariat for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SSME) and
National Institute of Industrial Technology (INTI).
LOAN:       US$125 million equivalent to be repaid in 15 years, including three
years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate.
RELENDING   The Borr,wer would transfer to the Central Bank (BCRA), under the same
TERMSt      terms as those of the Bank loan, US$124.2 million equivalent of loan
resource.s. BCRA would relend those resources to BANADE/FOPYME to
finance ';MIs (through participating banks (PBs) and BANADE as a direct
lender, and BANADE/FOPYME's technical assistance (TA) program. The
lerding to BANADE would be in 'Australes' adjusted by the combined
(wholesale and consumer) price index, applying an initial financial
charge of 5.5% real per annum (weighted average -- to be reviewed
every six months in consultation with the Bank) and the same repayment
period of the Bank loan. As requested by BCRAIBANADE, the former
would assume the foreign exchange risk. PBs and BANADE as a direct
lender would bear the credit risk. The Government would transfer
US$0.4 million equivalent of loan resources to SSME for the Regional
Technical Assistance Centers (RTACs) and, on a grant basis, US$0.4
million to INTI, in both cases for the TA program to SMIs. SMIs would
pay initial interest rates of 8% real per annum for fixed assets and
TA subloans, and 12% ftr related and free standing incremental
permanent working capital (FSWC), upon 'Australes'-denominated
subloans adjusted as mentioned before. Since subloans would be
adjusted according to the inflation rate, and SMIs would be charged
real rates, SMIs, in practice, would be covering the direct foreign
exchange risk, to the extent that BCRA exchange rate policy reflects
inflationary conditions. Onlending rates would be reviewed every six
months to ensure that they remain adequate and that rates to SMIs are
not lower than deposit rates , including a mid-term review also to
determine the need and possibility of adjusting the basis of lending
(subloan currency, type of adjustment to principal, subloan repayment
system), as appropriate. Subloan repayment periods would be for a
maximum of ten years, including up to three years of grace for
investment subprojects (fixed assets and related working capital); up
to three years, including up to six months of grace for FSWC; and up
to five years, including one year of grace for TA subloans.
PROJECT     The proposed project would be the first Bank SMI project in Argentina.
DESCRIPTION:It would support the Government's industrial sector strategy by
increasing production, employment and indirect exports, as well as its
efforts to gradually start revitalizing the economy. The project
would seek to encourage modernization and increases in production and



productivity of SMIs, enabling them to become more competitive, as
well as to assist in developing SMIs outside the major urban areas. It
would establish a medium to long-term lending system, operating
through a second-tier mechauism --FOPYME-- within BANADE, helping to
gradually convert the latter into a rediscount institution regarding
SMI lending by participating banks (PBs). To help to achieve the
preceding objectives, the project would offer: (a) credit for
investment subprolects, FSWC and TA needs; and (b) assistance to
establish a focussed TA program for SMIs and strengthen the
institutional capabilities of organizations providing credit and TA to
SMIs under the project. No more than 25% of loan resources would be
disbursed for FSWC. Small and medium-scale industries are defined as
those firms with fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, not
exceeding US$350,000 and US$3 million equivalent, respectively.
PROJECT     The project is expected to finance some 1,400 subprojects, many of
RISKS:      them for modernization, replacement of equipment and increase of
productivity, It would create and help to maintain some 12,500 jobs.
Since most of the institutional arrangements are new, possible risks
include a slower-than-expected pace of PBs' participation, and some
initial operational soft-spots of the second-tier mechanism and the TA
program to SMIs. To minimize these risks, the project would provide
for appropriate conditions to financial intermediaries, as well as TA
and project-related training to participating organizations, and it
would concentrate upon five RTACs. High frequency of Bank supervision
missions during the initial stages of project implementation should
contribute to reducing such risks.
ESTIMATED                            Local         Foreign          Total
COSTS:                                          (US$ million)
Investment/Credit      114.9           130.0             244.9
TA                       3.5              1.6              5.1
Total             118.4           131.6             250.0
FINANCING                             Local          Foreign          Total
PLAN:                                            (US$ million)
Bank                     -              125.0            125.0
BANADEIBCRAIFOPYME      49.3             3.3              52.6
Government/INTI          0.6             0.2               0.8
PBs                      9.3                               9.3
SMIs                    59.2             3.1              62.3
Total             118.4           131.6             250.0
ESTIMATED         (Based upon disbursement profile for IDF operations in the LAC
BANK             Region)
DISBURSEMENTS:         FY  1988    1989    1990      1991   1992      1993    1994
(US$ Million)
Annual       3.75    21.25   28.75   28.75   21.25    13.75    7.50
Cumulative   3.75    25.00   53.75   82.50  103.75   117.50  125.00
RATE OF RETURN:   FRR and ERR minimum of 12%  for subprojects.



II. INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Industrial Sector
(i) Sjctoral Context
2.01      Background. Argentina's industrial sector is relatively sophisticated
and diversified by Latin American standards; however, its industrial development
has been unstable and elusive. In the 1940s, the country's industrial sector
be-an a quarter century of sustained, albeit irregular, growth, induced first by
shortages of industrial goods during World War II and suonorted later by
protective trade policies. Although its import-substituting strategy of
industrial development began to show some weakness during the 1960s, Argentina
entered the decade of the 1970s as an acknowledged industrial leader in Latin
America, and the stage seemed to be set for a phase of rapid industrial growth,
supported by indigenous technological development. Instead, Argentina slipped
into economic and industrial stagnation during 1973-1985. The causes of such
stagnation can be traced mainly to a decline of internal demand that was not
offset by increases of industrial exports, to declining terms of trade, to
financial and trade policy changes, to lhyper-inflation and to the overvaluation
of the currency. In 1985, in order to control inflation, stabilize the economy
and establish the appropriate conditions for longer term growth, the Government
took a series of corrective measures (the "Plan Austral"). Beginning in
September 1985 and continuing through the third quarter of 1986, the sector
experienced a slow, but relatively steady, recovery.
2.02      Industrial Dolicies, Argentina's goals for the near future are
concentrated upor, revitalizing the economy within a relatively stable fiscal and
monetary framework. Major policy actions which the Government should pursue are
maintaining price stability (requiring continued control of public sector
deficit) and a competitive exchange rate, among other things, to encourage
industrial export expansion. The Government is pursuing this expansion, not
only for increasing the availability of foreign exchange but also because
domestic demand is bound to remain somewhat weak in the short to medium term.
Overall increases in production and a strengthening of the induistrial sector
would also set the stage for increasirg employment, which is another major
objective of Government policy. In this regard, the Government has increased its
interest in small and medium-scale industry (SMI) development, also indicating
its intention to reverse the 1970s policy of favoring investments in very large
capital-intensive state-owned enterprises. While there is no specific SMI policy
framework, the Subsecretariat for Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (SSME) has
been established within the Secretariat of Industry and Trade (SIT), mainly to
coordinate actions toward SMI sector development within the overall industrial
policy, representing the Government's new interest in the SMIs.
2.03      Currently, industrial policies are dominated by restrictions upon
import of goods which would compete with local manufactures, by the price and
wage controls established under the "Plan Austral", and by industrial promotion
regimes (Annex 1) intended to foster particular industrial subsectors, and
promote geographical dispersion of industry and exports. To encourage
long-lasting industrial development, distortions introduced by import
restrictions, price control and the above-mentioned regimes should be corrected.
The Government shares these views and has already initiated policy changes



-2-
(para. 2.13). However, it must proceed cautiously in view of the need to retain
political support. The process of reform must, therefore, be phased carefully to
minimize social and economic disruption, while maintaining the momentum
generated by the initial success of the "Plan Austral". The Government has
requested Bank support to analyze and carry out required changes.
(ii) SMIs' Structure and Development
2.04      Background, The financial sector reform of 1977, coupled with the
rapid inflation and crowding out of industrial investment, reduced SKIs' access
to the banking system disproportionately; and the uneven pattern of trade
liberalization protected  some producers while exposing others to increased
external competition. Facing internal demand cuts and unable to enter export
markets, many firms ceased to produce, while others reduced their operations or
moved into the informal economy. The number of SMI plants declined by 13%,
between 1974 and 1984, to about 32,000 units with more than five employees;
physical production fell 15%; and employment decreased 34%. In 1984, SMIs
accounted for 97% of all industrial establishments, employed 55% of industrial
labor and produced 44% of the value of industrial output. The sector, however,
has been recovering since 1985 (paras. 2.06 and 2.08). In April 1985,
utilization of industrial productive capacity was 53.3% for small enterprises
and 61.7% for medium-sized firms, compared with 65.7% for large firms. These
levels of capacity utilization increased in the second and third quarters of
1986 to above 70% for the manufacturing sector as a whole.
2.05      Exports increased in nine out of 14 of the predominantly SMI
subsectors (those with more than 50% of production and employment *.y SKIs)
during 1974-1984, showing an effort to counteract shrinking local demand.
Although predominantly SMI subsectors showed export growth, SMIs are not, as a
rule, strong direct exporters; nevertheless, their contribution as indirect
exporters is important (para. 2.08). Exports of the manufacturing sector
represent about 9% of production. About 20 large, mainly state or multinational
firms account for more than 40% of exports.
2.06      SMIs' investment and credit demand. At present, estimated SMI
investment needs amount to US$150 million - US$250 million equivalent per year
during the next three years (Annex 2). Over the past decade, demand for
productive credit by the private industrial sector was constrained by
instability and inconsistent economic policy. Results of a 1984 survey show that
only 30% of the SMIs made new investments during 1977-1983. Currently,
restrictive credit policy, levels of reserve requirements, and high deposit
rates and operating costs of the banking system have fuelad high, short-term
real lending interest rates on the order of 3% to 4% per month and have reduced
lending activities considerably. With resources available to finance working
capital or local equipment on reasonable terms basically restricted to limited
amounts channeled through the National Develeopment Bank (BANADE), most SMIs
with plans for modernization or expansion have been unable to carry them out.
Additionally, in the absence of venture capital firms and of an effective
capital market, entrepreneurs have had to depend almost entirely upon their own
resources to cover financial needs of the enterprises. (The first venture
capital firm was established in August 1986, with IFC participation, which also
approved early this year a pilot US$10 million line of credit for SMIs to be
administered by an Argentine commercial bank). A survey conducted by BANADE in
mid-1986 and the results of several mission meetings with different SMI
associations, show that SMIs have obsolete equipment, are now willing to invest,



-3-
and have concrete investment plans, but, also, that scarcity of appropriate
credit is a bindirg constraint for investment. There is, therefore, an urgent
need to promote zredit on reasonable terms and conditions to modernize and
develop the SMI sector.
2.07      Technical assistance (TA). At present, there is no active and
coordinated TA program for SMIs, but the need is recognized by industrialists,
financing institutions and Government officials. This matter is especially
important in the context of the industrial development objectives of
modernization, of increases in efficiency and of exports. In the past, several
public and private sector organizations have provided some TA, with a limited
scope and coverage. In May 1986, as a first outcome of the identification of the
TA needs for SMIs during project preparation, the Government approved the legal
framework to establish a system of Regional Technical Assistance Centers
(RTACs). If successful, this initiative could make an important contribution to
SMI development. In addition, the National Institute of Industrial Technology
(INTI) is preparing some programs to assist SMIs (Annex 3).
2.08      SMIs' Drospects and longer-term develoRment cotrnt. The outlook
for SMI growth is reasonably satisfactory. Lately, the sector is experiencing a
modest revival as a result of the Government's new economic policies and
interest for SMI development (para. 2.02), coupled with some SMI advantages,
such as operating flexibility, a capacity to cope better with uncertainties of
the economy, and the current low SMI indebtedness. Currently, the local market
offers moderate possibilities for further growth based upon these advantages,
provided that adequate credit and TA are available. The external markets for
direct and indirect exports, and the possible partial market integration between
Argentina and Brazil, present additional opportunities to SMIs in the medium to
longer run, mainly in those subsectors in which they have clear comparative
advantages, such as natural resource-based manufactures, machinery and
equipment, metalmechanics, and chemicals. Subcontracting is also opening new
development options for SMIs in Argentina. Since subcontracting is mainly a
market process, a promising alternative for its development might be to
encourage mechanisms for SMI subcontractors to obtain certain services, such as
credit glarantees from the large firms, and to facilitate the retooling of
subcontractors, as well as the establishment of incentives or services for
indirect exporters (partially contemplated in the proposed policy changes
--para. 2.03). The Government could also encourage large multinational exporters
to set up procurement offices in Argentina to increase exports of SMIs (e.g.,
IBM, in the last four to five years, has built a US$130 million p.a. export
business based 85% upon Argentine SMI suppliers). Exploitation of the
above-mentioned opportunities in the medium-to long-term would require
far-reaching reforms, for which the Government has requested Bank support
(para.2.13). Currently, the main constraint for SMI development is the shortage
of credit on suitable terms, with SMIs outside the major urban areas facing even
more difficulties to have access to credit and TA.
B.     Financial Sector
2.09      Argentina's financial system consists of BCRA, the central bank; four
specialized national banks: the country's largest commercial bank; BANADE, the
industrial development bank; the national housing bank; and the national savings
bank; and 189 banks, of which 31 (including 24 provincial banks) are public and
158 are private (31 foreign and 127 nationally owned), as of March 1986. The
balance of the system includes 68 finance companies and 45 savings and loans



-4-
associations and credit unions. The public banks, excluding BCRA, have about 57%
of total deposits and grant about 66% of the total volume of loans. Private
banks control about 41% of total deposits and grant about 32% of the credit. The
equity base of the financial system, excluding BCRA, was equivalent to US$3.7
billion by year-end 1985. While the number of commercial banks in operation has
declined significantly, the system is still substantially over-dimensioned,
given its large number of branches (about 5,000) and institutions, its
relatively low resource base and its portfolio size.
2.10     Argentina's recent economic crisis has had a substantial impact upon
the status and structure of the financial sector. Hyper-inflation, imposing a
heavy "inflation tax" upon holders of nominal liquid financial assets,
demonetized the economy, while highly negative interest rates during the early
1980s causad a significant disintermediation process. As a result of the
disintermediation process, the banks' leverage dropped to a low 6:1 at the end
of 1985. In addition, the average maturities of lending and deposit operations
declined to as little as seven days, leading to a high number of operations and
to higher administrative costs. Lately, lending interest rates became
excessively high in real terms (about 3% to 4% per month --p.m.-- during 1986),
and the value of operations channeled through the intermediation system
declined. As a result, non-intermediated lending between companies increased.
Moreover, erratic financial sector policies, ranging from complete
liberalization in the late 1970s to today's excessive regulation of
intermediation, resulted in serious market distortions and contributed, to some
extent, to the poor financial condition of many banks. The overall status of the
financial system, the lack of adequate credit to the private sector, and
distorted high real market rates, are constraints for investment.
2.11     While the demonetization issue is being addressed principally through
the Government's macroeconomic stabilization program, financial market
distortions and structural imbalances require a sector-specific reform program.
Currently, the Government, in consultation with the Bank, is designing and
partly beginning to implement the first stage of such a program, consisting of
policy adjustments (aimed at reducing forced investment and rediscounts, and
deregulating lending and deposits operations), measures to initiate the
restructuring of financial intermediaries (reviewing accounting practices,
raising minimum equity requirements, providing restructuring assistance to
individual banks), improvements in the supervision and control process of
financial intermediaries, and broadening of the deposit insurance coverage.
C.   Bank Involvement in the Industrial Sector
2.12      To date, the Bank has approved two industrial loans, both for US$100
million equivalont, to BANADE (Loans 1463-AR and 2063-AR) used mainly for fixed
capital financing of medium-to large-sized enterprises. The first loan is fully
disbursed and the second one is about 65% committed at BANADE level. It expects
to fully commit this loan by mid-year 1987. About 334 subprojects have been
financed (with IFC participating in some of them), with a total cost of about
US$500 million equivalent. A sample of subprojects show ex-ante economic and
financial rates of return over 25% on average and creation of about 3,000 jobs, in
line with expectations during appraisal. These figures exclude subprojects, under
BANADE's analysis, requiring about US$25 million from loan 2063-AR. Overall,
implementation of the loans had not been smooth, mainly as a result of political
uncertainties, economic recession, BANADE's operational weaknesses as a direct
lender (most of them being addressed by the current management -- para. 3.07), and



delays in loans signing. In addition, high onlending interest rates have affected
implementation of the second loan, although after modification of the onlending
rate in late 1985 committments increased substantially.
2.13      Bank strategy for the industrial sector development in Argentina during
FY87-89 would support required long-term policy reform and the prompt
revitalization of the economy. The Bank's agenda would focus upon: (a) a Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Loan (TPL -- which has already been appraised
and for which Board presentation has been scheduled for the fourth quarter of
FY87) and an Export Promotion Project (EPP) to increase the le-;el of international
competitiveness of Argentine industry and exports, respectively (Annex 1); (b)
Industrial Sector Work to assess the impact of industrial policy and industrial
promotion regimes on the organization of industrial markets, the conduct of firms
and their economic performance, aimed at helping to revise, design and implement
required industrial policy measures; and (c) lines of credit for Industrial
Restructuring and SMI Development. It also includes support for Financial Sector
Reform (Financial Sector Work already completed and a Banking Sector Adjustment
Loan, for which the Bank recently approved a Project Preparation Facility and has
scheduled appraisal for FY87) for improving the ability of the financial system to
serve the industrial and other sectors (para. 2.11). In addition, the Bank has
advised the Government on the policy framework for privatization and restructuring
of major parastatal industries, and is providing assistance to the Government to
stregthen public sector administration (through the Publ:ie Sector Management
Project --Loan 2712-AR-- which is progressing satisfactorily). The Government has
already initiated trade and financial sector reforms, abolished export taxes on
manufactures (which were levied mainly upon predominantly SMI subsectors and
represented the major sector issue of particular relevance to SMI), taken a series
of measures to encourage exports and prepared a draft law to initiate reforms of
the industrial promotion regimes. It has also, through BCRA, started to strengthen
supervision to the banks and gradually reduce reserve requirements. Since adequate
progress is being achieved on the trade and financial sector reform operations,
and SMIs are relatively less affected by the policies to be modified (para 2.08),
an operation to support them would make a useful and needed contribution to
economic reactivation and employment while longer-term reforms are being
introduced. In this context, the trade and financial sector reform operations as
currently scheduled, would be sufficient in time to provide the long-term policy
environment for SMI growth. Moreover, the proposed project would enable SMIs to
start preparing themselves to cope better with the changes to be produced by trade
liberalization.
2.14      Bank involvement in the proposed project would support the
Government's efforts to provide scarce long-term resources and TA for the needs
of a sector that for many years has been neglected, but that is vital to the
recovery of the economy and to help achieve expected results of trade reform and
the export expansion. Currently, no other international institution is
specifically involved in the development of SMIs. The proposed project would
also promote the strengthening of the private sector and make available to the
Government Bank experience in other LAC countries. Bank involvement should
continue to be instrumental in coordinating the efforts of different public and
private sector institutions for appropriate project preparation and execution.



-6-
III. PROPOSED PROJECT
A.     rojeact Prearation
3.01      A Bank report "Argentina: Strategies Toward Industrial and Export
Development" dated September 1985, identified the need to assist SMIs as a major
component for an industrial development strategy in Argentina. At that time,
the Government stated its intention to support SMI development.  In November,
1985 it expressed its interest to receive a Bank loan for such a purpose, loan
that would also assist to start revitalizing the economy. Bank preparation
missions visited Argentina in March and June 1986. The appraisal mission was
carried out in October 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
February 24 to March 6, 1987. The Argentine delegation was led by Mr. R. da
Bouza, Ministry of Economy, and included Messrs. J. Campbell, Under Secretary of
Industry; Ch. Colombo, President of BANADE; P. Richards, Director, BANADE; 0O
Meola, J. I. Rodriguez and E. Salvo, BANADE; and H. Amadeo, Ministry of Economy.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
(i) Proiect Objectives
3.02      The proposed project would seek to encourage modernization and
increases in production and productivity of SMIs, enabling them to become more
competitive, as well as to foster employment and help develop SMIs outside the
major urban areas. It would also establish a medium-to long-term lending
system, operating through a second-tier mechanism --FOPYME, para. 3.05-- within
BANADE, helping to gradually convert the latter into a rediscount institution
regarding to SMI lending by participating banks (PBs); and a coordinated TA
program for SMI development.
(ii) Prolect DescriRtion
3.03     Financial assistance comDonent.  The proposed project would finance: (a)
fixed asset and related permanent working capital needs of SMIs (including
machinery and equipment and their installation costs; building construction,
handling and storage facilities; civil works; quality and pollution control
equipment; replacement of obsolete machinery and equipment; investments for
improvement of product, quality and design; and acquisition of new
technologies); (b) free-standing working capital (FSWC) needs; and (c) TA needs
of SMIs and for the establishment and operations of trading companies related to
SMI activities. Under this category, SMIs might use credit to hire INTI
services, or those of any technical institution or consulting firm providing
services in the fields of management, technology, finance, production and
marketing (including purchasing of technology abroad, setting up research and
development or technical testing facilities, and carrying out market studies and
export promotional activities for a single firm or group), as well as for
subproject preparation or to assess TA needs.
3.04      A comonent. The thrust of project support for TA to SMIs would be, in
addition to providing credit for the SMIs' TA needs, toward helping to: (a)
initiate a focussed managerial and technological assistance program to SMIs, and
coordinating such assistance with the lending provided under the project, as
appropriate; and (b) support institutional strengthening of organizations



-7-
providing technical and financial assistance to SMIs under the project
(FOPYME/BANADE, PBs, SSME/RTACs and INTI). The TA component, which would
finance consulting services and equipment, is detailed in Annex 3. It would
also include subsectoral studies, study-trips and project-related training
(PRT). The PRT would focus upon areas such as subproject preparation, appraisal
and supervision, and industrial extension services.
C. Project Executiogn
(i) Particigatine Institutions
3.05     Development Fund for SHIs (POPYME). The main responsible organization for
the project's credit component would be FOPYME, operating as a permanent
second-tier development fund within BANADE, with its own objectives, organization
and staff, and with its resources separated from other BANADE's resources (Annex
4). For FOPYME's operation, BANADE's Board of Directors would adopt a Statement of
Policy and of Operating Regulations. Both draft documents, including FOPYME's
organization and staffing and guidelines for subproject appraisal and supervision
(all available in the project file), as discussed during appraisal and
negotiations, are suitable for project implementation (Annex 4, paras. 2 to 5).
BANADE has appointed FOPYME's director and staff as agreed with the Bank.
BANADE's Board of Directors' approval of FOPYME's Statement of Policies and
Operating Regulations and FOPYME's approval of the above-mentioned guidelines
would be conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.06     Intermediarl  institutlons. It is expected that some 40 PBs and BANADE as a
first-tier lender, would initially participate under FOPYME. Only those PBs
accepted by FOPYME/BANADE (in consultation with BCRA), based upon creditworthiness
analysis made by FOPYME/BANADE, following procedures acceptable to the Bank, would
be eligible to participate as FOPYME's financial intermediaries (Annex 4, para.
6). BANADE's participation as a direct lender , through its SMI department, would
be necessary to ensure that smaller firms and those outside the major urban areas
receive the benefits of FOPYME and that adequate rates of disbursements during the
initial years of the project (as term lending to SMIs by PBs may be somewhat slow
initially) are achieved. However, a follow-up loan would include a timetable for
phasing out BANADE's first-tier operations with SMIs, depending upon, among other
things, the PBs' capabilities for such type of lending. As a condition for the
effectiveness of the proposed loan, BANADE/FOPYME would present to the Bank four
or more participation agreements signed between BANADE/FOPYME and PBs, providing
for onlending equivalent at least to 25% of the proposed loan amount.
3.07     BANADE: Was created as an autonomous Government-owned industrial
development bank in December 1970, out of the reorganized "Banco Industrial." A
new Charter was promulgated in August 1977. In addition to its primary development
objectives, BANADE also provides commercial banking services, and has become
practically the only term-lending domestic institution for industry. In the past,
BANADE was a channel for Government subsidies to state-owned enterprises. Its
role as provider of credit to the industrial private sector was limited during the
1970s, but it has been increased during the 1980s. In 1984, BANADE started a
lending program to SMIs, with renewed efforts during 1986, with good results,
turning away from its traditional policy of lending basically to the largest
enterprises. For such a purpose, BANADE established an SMI credit department,
which receives support from the Technical Department for subproject appraisal and
supervision. Their capabilities, which would be strengthened under the proposed
project, are suitable for project implementation (Annex 5). In addition, in 1986,



-8-
BANADE began to operate also as an SMI second-tier institution, a function which
would also be strengthened by the proposed project and which would allow BANADE to
rely on creditworthiness assessments by PBs, which will bear the credit risk.
Since the new government took office in late 1983, BANADE's management and the
overall institutional situation have been improving. The current management,
appointed in early 1985, recruited a young and dynamic group of executive
directors and embarked upon a program to strengthening further the institution
financially and operationally. BANADE's financial situation and performance, while
still facing some weaknesses, including an inadequate spread on foreign currency
operations, have also been improving since 1983. Currently, while its portfolio
quality (most of it inherited from former Governments) is relatively acceptable,
administrating and improving the quality of the portion associated to the largest
enterprises (most of it guaranteed by the Government) is the major, and a
long-term, task that the institution is facing and working with. Currently,
BANADE relies mainly on BCRA resources. It would have to reduce this dependence
as BCRA relaxes reserve requirements in the course of its moves toward a more
market-oriented banking system. To further improve BANADE's standing as a
first-tier lender and to help ensure smooth project implementation, BANADE has
established a unit exclusively to analyze and supervise SMI subprojects, and
approved the TA program for FOPYME/BANADE. As a condition of effectiveness, to
strengthen itself financially, BANADE should (a) revise the policy and level of
provisions for bad debts; (b) prepare a pilot plan for resource mobilization; and
(c) revise the financial spread on foreign currency lending operations, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. It will also present to the Bank prior to June
30, 1987, an analysis of the possibility to reduce lending interest periods in
order to maximize its cash flow and an indicative plan for portfolio recovery
focussing upon the 50 largest enterprises, which may include restructuring and
sales of firms. This plan would also support preparatory work for a possible
Industrial Restructuring Project, currently scheduled for FY88. BANADE's
debt/equity ratios should be within the limits agreed with the Bank, for 1987 and
onwards (Annex 3, paras. 13 to 16 and Annex 5, paras. 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 a.1d
14).
3.08     TA Institutions. SSME, which was established by the Government in October
1985, has taken an active role to create mechanisms to assist SMIs. In this
context, SIT approved a scheme to create a network of RTACs throughout the country
(Annex 3). RTACs' main function would be to provide information to SMIs and serve
as a referral service for financial and technical assistance matters, under SSME
coordination. To maximize the impact of resources available, the program would
focus its assistance upon five pilot RTACs. INTI, which was established in 1957
as a Government autonomous institution, is the major technological source of
assistance to industrial enterprises. INTI is a large institution, witb 22
technological centers and 11 research departments. Within INTI three
centers/programs are particularly relevant to SMIs: Center for Research of Methods
and Techniques for SMIs (CIME); Technological Research Center of Santa Fe
(CITSAFE) and Research Documentation Center (CID). While INTI's impact upon
industries and, in particular, upon SMIs has been below its possibilities, it has
the capabilities to offer appropriate TA. In such context, INTI is currently
undergoing a major structural reorganization and its SMI activities would be
strengthened under the proposed project. The five RTACs to be supported by the
project have been staffed. Approval by INTI's Board of Directors of CIME and
Management Advisory Program (MAP)'s TA programs, as agreed with the Bank, would be
a condition for disbursement of INTI's TA subcomponent (Annex 3, paras. 9 and 12).



-9-
(ii)Executing Agencies
3.09     BANADE/FOPYME would be the executing agency for the project credit
component and for the TA to themselves and PBs. FOPYME would coordinate the PRT
under the project for subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision. SSME
would be responsible for the SSME/RTACs TA subcomponent; however, to expedite
procurement of goods and services to be financed with loan proceeds, INTI
through its National Director of Promotion and Development (NDPD), would act as
administrator, since it has more flexibility in procurement matters than SSME.
INTI through NDPD would also be the executing agency for its correspondi-ig TA
subcomponent. To help ensure a smooth implementation of each TA subcomponent
and an appropriate coordination among them, and also between the executing
agencies and the Bank, BANADE, SSME and INTI would appoint a high-level officer
to be responsible for the TA activities within the respentive agency.
D.   Proiect Cost and Financing Arrangements
(i) Project Cost and Financing
3.10     Project cost is estimated at US$250 million equivalent, of which about
53% represents foreign exchange costs. A Bank loan for US$125 million
equivalent, to cover 50% of project cost, is proposed. Overall, SHIs would
ccntribute about 25% of project cost, and BANADE/FOPYME (basically with BCRA
resources), PBs, INTI and the Government, the balance. The credit component
estimated cost amounts to US$244.9 million equivalent. The loan would finance
US$123.1 million, SMIs about US$60.9mi.1lion, BANADE/FOPYME about US$51.5 million
and the PBs about US$9.3 million. The estimated cost of the project's TA
component would be about US$5.1 million equivalent, of which US$1.9 million
would be provided by the proposed loan, about US$1.8 million by BANADE, INTI and
the Government with own resources, and about US$1.4 million by SMIs' payments
for services.
(ii) Onlending Arrangements
3.11     The Government, as the proposed borrower, would transfer to BCRA, under
the same terms as those of the Bank loan, US$124.2 million equivalent of loan
resources. BCRA would relend those resources to BANADE to finance SMIs and the
corresponding TA program. The lending to BANADE would be in "Australes" adjusted
by the combined (wholesale and consumer) price index, applying an initial real
interest rate of 7% per annum for working capital and 4% per annum for fixed
assets (to be reviewed every siX months in consultation with the Bank --para.
3.14) with a weighted average of 5.5% and the same maturities of the Bank loan.
As proposed by BCRA/BANADE, the former would assume the foreign exchange risk.
According to BCRA/BANADE, the implicit fee that BCRA would receive --the
difference between the Bank rate and the onlending rate - should be applied to
absorb exchange and interest rate fluctuations.l/ The Government would transfer
1/ In 1986 the combined index increased by 64% and the exchange rate between the
US dollar and the austral by 54%. A difference of 10% as in 1986, when added to
the proposed BCRA's real onlending rate, should be adequate to cover the Bank's
current interest rate and build up a reserve for future fluctuations in the
different rates and for the cross currency risk.



-10-
US$0.4million of loan resources to SSME for the RTACs and, on a grant basis,
US$0.4 million to INTI, in both cases for the to TA program to SMIs. A signed
agreement for transferring the funds from the Government through BCRA to BANADE
would be presented to the Bank as a condition for the effectiveness of the loan.
(iii) Terms and Conditions of Financing
3.12     Nature of enterprises. The proposed project would provide credit and TA
for subprojects of SMIs involved in manufacturing (industry, agroindustry, wood
processing and wood products, mining, and fishing and fish products) and in
services related to such activities. While subprojects would normally entail the
creation, expansion or modernization of enterprises, up to 25% of the loan could
be used for free standing working capital subloans to expand capacity utilization
of existing eligible firms. For project purposes, small firms would be defined as
those private enterprises with fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, up to
US$0.35 million equivalent before project financing and medium-sized, those up to
US$3.0 million equivalent. The adequacy of these criteria would be analyzed
during a mid-term review, based upon experience obtained under the project.
3.13     Limits and terms. Maximum financing from the loan, BANADE/FOPYKE end PB's
would be 60% of subproject cost for new enterprises and 80% for existing ones and
for TA. To avoid concentration of project resources upon a few firms, the overall
maximum outstanding amount of a subloan to any individual firm or group of related
enterprises, with loan resources, would be US$2 million equivalent. Maximun
individual subloan with loan proceeds would be of $2 million equivalent for
investment subprojects, US$1 million for FSWC, and US$0.2 million for TA. No more
than 50% of a subloan amount could be used to finance related working capital. To
finance FSWC needs with loan proceeds, they should be: incremental; resulting from
a plan to increase the utilization of installed production capacity; and
permanent, including only raw materials, spare parts and other physical production
inputs. PBs and BANADE as a direct lender, would establish appropriate maturities
for each subloan based upon the repayment capacity of the subprojects and
enterprises. FOPYME would apply the same repayment period to the corresponding
intermediary. The limit would be of ten years, including up to three years of
grace for fixed investments and related working capital; up to three years,
including up to six months of grace, for FSWC; and up to five years, including up
to one year of grace, for TA. PBs and BANADE as a direct lender, would contribute
10% of the subloan amount and would bear the credit risk. PBs would be allowed to
apply SMIs' initial repayments to such a portion, and would approve subloans up to
US$0.1 million equivalent. All other PBs' proposals would require FOPYKE
approval. BANADE's subloans with loan resources up to US$0.5 million as direct
lender would be approved by BANADE. All subloans over US$0.5 million with loan
resources and TA operations would require prior Bank approval. Under this
procedure, it is expected that about 10% of the subprojects, representing about
40% of loan resources, would be subject to prior Bank approval (Annex 4, para. 4).
PBs/BANADE would analyze the repayment capacity of the enterprises for all
subprojects. In addition, they would calculate the financial rate of return (FER)
for investment and FSWC subprojects requiring subloans with FOPYME's resources
over US$0.1 million equivalent. FOPYME would calculate the economic rate of return
(ERR) in cases of subloans using loan resources over US$1 million. FRR (after
taxes) and ERR would have to be at least 12*.
3.14     Interest rates. The project would offer to SMIs credit in local currency,
adjusted by the combined price index prepared by BCRA, with initial interest rates



-11-
of 8% real p.a. to finance fixed assets, and TA; and 12% for related working
capital and FSWC. These rates are currently higher than average deposit rates.
Taking into account the experience with foreign exchange rates during the 1980s,
SMIs would be loath to take foreign-exchange-denominated obligations. In this
regard, however, since local currency subloans would be adjusted according to the
inflation rate and subborrowers would be charged real interest rates, SMIs, in
practice, would be covering the direct foreign exchange risk, to the extent that
BCRA exchange rate policy reflects true inflationary conditions. During the last
12 months, short-term lending interest rates were unsustainably high, about 3%
real p.m. on average, mainly as a result of high reserve requirements and
distorted market deposit rates, which --in turn-- has made SMIs resort to
borrowing only in exceptional cases, maintaining a low leverage ratio. Thus, at
present, it would be impossible to tie subproject lending rates to any
representative domestic "market" rate. The Government has, however, within its
restrictive monetary program, established some limited term-credit facilities to
gradually start revitalizing the economy, e.g., through BANADE, for industrial
term financing, with rates of 8% and 12% p.a. upon indexed "Australes"-denominated
subloans. The proposed rates would be in line with such approach. As part of the
proposed onlending rates financial intermediaries would keep a spread of 3.75
percentage points. Financial intermediaries would pay to FOPYME a commitment
charge of no more than 1% upon their corresponding loan resources allocation,
which might be transferred to the subborrowers. BANADE/BCRA would present to the
Bank every six months a review of onlending rates and spreads to ensure that they
remain adequate and that rates to enterprises are not lower than deposit rates
(provided that such rates are conducive to resource mobilization and do not
represent significant distortions). They would also carry out a mid-tertn review,
in consultation with the Bank, to determine the need and possibility of adjusting
the basis of lending (i.e., subloan currency, type of adjustment to principal,
subloan repayment system), as appropriate. The Bank would be entitled to cease
subloan commitments if agreement is not reached on any of the rates with
BANADE/BCRA within 60 days of the start of each semester.
(iv) Procurement
3.15     Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
project would follow standard practice for Bank IDF-type projects. FOPYME and
its participating institutions would be responsible for ensuring the
competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured and their suitability
for the purpose intended. While international competitive bidding (ICB) would
not be required regarding SMI subprojects, items would be procured upon the
basis of at least three different quotations, which in the case of equipment
should include items produced in at least two countries. Since it might be
difficult or relatively costly to obtain quotations from several suppliers for
small orders, the three offers would be mandatory for items or single orders
exceeding US$0.3 million equivalent. For lesser values, the corresponding
institutions would assure themselves that the main sources of supply have been
canvassed and that the purchasing is from the most advantageous sources.
Consulting services financed with loan proceeds would be open to international
recruitment selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of
consultants. Procurement of goods under the TA component would be made according
to Bank Procurement Guidelines, applying ICB for purchases with value of US$0.2
million equivalent or more; and local competitive bidding (LCB), for lesser
values. In the case of ICB and LCB, prior Bank approval would be required for
bidding documents. As part of subproject approval, review would be made to assure
procurement is from eligible sources and for eligible goods and works. All



-12-
subproject appraisals and TA operations would include a discussion of procurement
procedures used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of
suppliers of goods and services.
(v) Disbursements
3.16     The final date for submission of subloan proposals would be December 31,
1990 and the closing date, June 30, 1994 according to the average disbursement
profile for IDF loans in the region, even though BANADE expects shorter periods
(Annex 7, Table 4). The Bank would finance 50% of subproject cost on average,
however, disbursement of Bank funds would be made using an accelerated scheme as
follows: (a) 60% of the cost of each subproject approved or authorized regarding
conmitments up to the equivalent of the first one-half of the loan amount; and (b)
40% for the balance; provided that, in any case, the corresponding amounts are not
higher than the FOPYME disbursement. This would reduce BANADE's/FOPYME's share of
project financing during the initial stage of project implementation to help ease
counterpart funding constraints (and would speed up loan disbursement). During
the later project-stage, project counterpart funds would be available to
BANADE/FOPYME from repayments of principal and interest on subloans previously
made. For the TA component, the Bank would disburse 100% of total expenditures
(for the purposes, and along the lines, stated in Annex 3). To facilitate project
execution, a Special Account would be established to finance the Bank's share of
operations made by the project. The account would be established and maintained
in US dollars, into which the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$8 million
equivalent, based upon four months of expected disbursements. Withdrawal
applications submitted under the project would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation requesting SOE would be maintained
by FOPYME and made available for review upon request by the Bank. Only
expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the day of recr.e.pt by the Bank of
the corresponding financing request would be eligible for reimbursements under the
proposed loan. This extension of the Bank's normal 90-day limit under IDF
projects would be justified in view of the arrangements involving participating
banks, BANADE and FOPYME.
(vi) Accounting. Auditing and Regorting
3.17     BANADE would maintain separate accounts for FOPYME and adequate records
to reflect the project's operations and financial situation, in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied. The Government (SSME) and
INTI would maintain also separate accounts and adequate results, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, to reflect their operations in respect of the
project. BANADE's accounts, FOPYME and the Project's Account, SSME/INTI's
accounts in respect of the project, and the Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report, with
scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, including opinion regarding the
supporting documentation for disbursements based upon SOE, would be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. BANADE's
audit reports for 1984 and 1985 were prepared by "Sindicatura General de
Empresas Publicas" (a Government auditing office), which expressed minor
reservations only. BANADE/FOPYME would submit to the Bank monthly reports upon
the transactions of the Special Account; semi-annual reports upon the overall
status of the project, including credit and TA matters; upon the project
financial situation and portfolio quality; and upon the operations (statistical
information) and their expected impact. BANADE would also submit to the Bank
indicators upon its flow of funds, financial situation and portfolio quality. In



-13-
addition, SSME and INTI would submit to the Bank prior to November 2 of each
year, the expected TA program for SMIs to be implemented by the RTACs and INTI,
under the project, during the following year, respectively; and semi-annually,
combined with FOPYME's report, the results of the project TA to SSME/RTACs and
INTI, and of the TA program to SMIs, during the previous six months (Annex 6).
E.      Benefits and Risks
3.18     The proposed project , in addition to assisting in the recovery of the
economy and complementing efforts with other Government/Bank operations, is
expected to provide financing for some 1,400 subprojects, many of them for
modernization, replacement of equipment and increase of productivity, generating
and helping to maintain about 12,500 jobs. Indirect employment impact is also
expected to be significant because of domestic forward and backward linkages.
Both the expected employment impact and the emphasis upon promoting investments
by small-scale entrepreneurs would contribute to poverty alleviation. The
project would also constitute a pioneering effort in Argentina to set up a
specialized SMI second-tier subloan delivery system in coordination with TA,
coordinating also public and private sector institutions. It would have strong
institution-building impact, not only upon FOPYME, but also upon BANADE, PBs,
and TA organizations, including training for about 250 professionals from such
institutions. This would result in improved and more efficient provision of
technical and financial services to SMIs, as well as in improved credit
administration.
3.19     Specially because most of the institutional arrangements would be new,
possible risks include a slower-than-expected pace of PBs' participation and
some operational soft-spots regarding the second-tier mechanism and the TA
program to SMIs. To minimize these risks, the project would provide for
appropriate conditions to financial intermediaries, and TA and PRT to
participating organizations; and it would concentrate upon five RTACs. High
frequency of Bank supervision missions during the initial stages of project
implementation should contribute to reducing such risks.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01    During negotiations, agreement was confirmed upon:
(a) the proposed project's objectives and description (paras. 3.02 to
3.04);
(b) the participating institutions and corresponding conditions and
arrangements, including agreement with BANADE to maintain debt/equity
ratios within new limits for 1987 and onwards (paras. 3.05 to 3.09).
(c) the proposed project cost and financing, loan amount, onlending
arrangements and counterpart resources (paras. 3.10 and 3.11);
(d) the terms and conditions of financing (paras. 3.12 to 3.14);
and



-14-
(e) the proposed project's procurement, disbursement, accounting,
auditing and reporting matters (paras. 3.15 to 3.17).
4.02     As conditions for the effectiveness of the loan, the following matters
should be presented in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) approval by BAUADE's Board of Directors of FOPYME's Statement of
Policy and of Operating Regulations, and approval by FOPYME of
subproject appraisal and supervision guidelines (para. 3.05);
(b) presentation to the Bank of four or more signed participation
agreements between BANADE and PBs, covering at least 250 of the
proposed loan amount (para. 3.06);
(c) compliance by BANADE with: revising loan provisions, as appropriate;
preparing a pilot plan for resource mobilization; and revising and
carrying out recommendations upon spreads for foreign currency
lending, as appropriate (para. 3.07); and
(d) signing of an agreement for transferring the loan proceeds from the
Government to BANADE through BCRA (para. 3.11).
4.03     As a condition for disbursement of INTI TA subcomponent, INTI should
present, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, approval by its Board
of Directors of CIME and MAP programs (para. 3.08).
4.04     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of
US$125 million equivalent on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapters III
and IV.



-15-
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Policy - Summarv
I. Promotion Regimes
The Law of industrial promotion of 1977 revised and set the framework
of industrial policy, which is based primarily upon the following regimes:
1.       The Sectoral Promotion Regimes (SPRs).  The essence of SPRs is to
develop specific subsectors through quantitative protection; they also grant
import tariff waivers, import licenses for goods on the restricted import lists
and incentives for investment. There are several SPRs in operation (e.g.,
paper, steel, petrochemical, shipbuilding and electronics). Some of these
regimes reduce the competitive advantages of other industrial subsectors since
they increase their cost of inputs and investments. The Government has taken
steps to prevent this problem, e.g., the program to secure supplies for
exporters at international prices. The Government is also revising downward the
existing tariffs for imported advanced technological equipment protected under
the electronics SPR and is proposing a further revision of these regimes,
including the elimination of double benefits under different SPRs and costs or
constraints that those regimes may create for exporters.
2.       The Regional Promotion Regimes (RPRs).  The purpose of RPRs is to
promote employment, investment and production outside the industrial belt formed
by Buenos Aires, Rosario and Cordoba. Most RPRs are controlled by the
Secretariat of Industry and Trade (SIT), except for the cases of Tierra del
Fuego, San Luis and La Rioja, in which the authority has been vested in the
provincial governments. These regimes exonerate firms from the difference
between the value added tax (VAT) of sales and a tax credit accrued from the
purchase of inputs subject to VAT (resulting in a net average of about 9% of
VAT). In the case of Tierra del Fuego, producers are exonerated for the whole
value added tax which amounts to 18%. RPRs also grant tariff waivers for
imported capital goods and import licenses for goods on the prohibited import
lists. The combination of the protection under the SPRs and the incentives under
the RPRs encourages the establishment of last stage assembly plants ("maquila").
Most of the value added generated by such plants is profits, aside from
employment and transportation costs. Large enterprises have apparently taken
more advantage of the benefits offered by RPRs than have other firms. Controls
of RPRs are ineffective, making it possible for firms to create quasi-factories
in the regions for the last steps of the manufacturing process . RPRs' actual
contribution to regional employment and production has been somewhat limited,
although vital for the outlying regions such as Tierra del Fuego. The fiscal
cost of RPRs has been estimated at about 2% of GDP. The Government expects to
review them, reducing the maximum fiscal exemption to 50% of the difference
between VAT sales and VAT purchases (resulting in about 4.5% on average), mainly
to compensate for higher transportation costs; keeping the RPR administration
regarding larger investment projects, and provincial governments being
responsible for the medium-size and smaller projects; and fostering the
distribution of benefits among a larger number of enterprises.



-16-
3.         The Export Promotion Programs (EPPs).  At the beginning of 1986, EPPs
included limited temporary admissions of inputs by qualified exporters; a program
to supply exporters with local inputs at international prices; pre- and
post-export credit lines (without adequate funding); some tax incentives; and an
Export Promotion Fund (with very modest operations), with an ear-marked income of
0.5% upon imports, to assist Small and Medium-Scale Industries (SMIs) and
regional producers with export promotion activities. Additionally, there was a
specific program to foster the creation of export consortia of SMIs, and export
incentives for individual firms or consortia with incremental exports of at least
US$2 million per annum, for a minimum period of two years. During the third
quarter of 1986, the Goverr1ment adopted a new set of measures called "la apertura
exportadora." It includes a tax reimbursement of 10-15% of the FOB value of
exports, the elimination of export taxes for manufactured goods (many SMIs
benefit from this decision), and a temporary admission regime to allow the
duty-free import of inputs for exporters and their suppliers (a direct benefit for
SMIs also). There is a special export promotion program known as ARGEX that grants
subscribers the automatic duty-free import of all tariff positions if they commit
themselveg to a multi-year export contract. Another incenrive is a program that
allows exporters of capital goods, with a large production lead time, to lock
their costs in the currency in which they have made their bids ("ajuste
exportador"). The Government also has sharply reduced and simplified procedures
for the temporary admission regime and for the import of goods. In this context,
the import permit for goods which enter the country automatically has been
eliminated. The already existing export promotion programs were kept alive. While
the Government has taken several steps in the right direction, there is room to
strengthen the EPR's impact and coverage, as well as for further revision of
export procedures.
B. Bank Sungort to Government's Export Strategy
4.       It is now widely recognized that a vigorous export drive is the main
available option of the resumption of industrial growth. The Government's
industrial strategy, therefore, focuses, among other things, upon the promotion
and development of non-traditional exports. The Bank intends to support
directly these efforts through a Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan
(TPL) and an Export Promotion Project --EPP. (SAR, para. 2.13).
5.       The proposed TPL would support the country's efforts to redress the
strong anti-export bias built into the present complex system of tariff and
non-tariff protection, linked to the maintenance of an adequate exchange rate.
Its underlying objective is to support the Government's adoption of an
outward-looking growth strategy directed toward improving the export
competitiveness and increasing the productive efficiency of Argentine industry.
To achieve this objective, the loan would seek to: (a) introduce automaticity and
uniformity in the temporary admission regime; (b) simplify import and export
administrative procedures; (c) rationalize the protection system through the
reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade; (d) formulate an Action Program of
trade reform for the longer term; and (e) eliminate export taxes (para. 3) . The
loan would also support an increase in imports necessary for the growth and
export orientation of the economy and, at the same time, improve the country's
capacity to service its debt. The Argentine authorities, after consultation with
the Bank, have announced and are introducing changes in key policy areas which
the loan would support.



-17-
6.       The EPP would complement TPL efforts by creating an institutional
framework to meet the financing needs of exporters. The project, would consist of
the following: (a) credit to complement the Central Bank (BCRA) existing
pre-shipment financing scheme, possibly including resources to finance limited
fixed investment requirements of exporters; (b) support to strengthen and modify
the existing lending policies and mechanism; (c) a study of the requirements of
pre-shipment financing to trading companies and indirect exporters and design of
an appropriate mechanism, including the development of a domestic letter of credit
scheme; and (d) measures to: provide appropriate technical assistance to exporters
and participating institutions under the proposed project.



-18-
Ann!tx 
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
Expected SMI Investment
1.       Estimated Small and Medium-Scale Industries (SMIs) investment during
the next three years could vary from about US$150 million to US$250 million per
year. While future SMI investment levels would depend upon the effectiveness of
current economic and monetary policies in containing inflation and stimulating
growth, and upon the prevailing level of term interest rates, at present there
are indications (two surveys, mission findings and National Development Bank's
(BANADE) SMI lending since 1985) that investment possibilities and credit demand
are high. As part of project preparation, BANADE carried out a survey among 629
SMIs (a very small fraction of the SMI universe of about 111,000 establishments,
out of which 32,000 have five or more employees), identified current investment
plans for US$160 million to be implemented over a period of one to
one-and-a-half years, and a potential credit demand of US$107 million. It is
noteworthy that the survey shows that 91% of the firms havi, concrete investment
plans. Also, that they can implement their plans only if credit on appropriate
terms is available. Only 10% of the equipment in operation of those firms was
purchased during the last five years, the balance being of older vintage and
likely to be obsolete. If these firms are representative of the universe of
SMIs, and if the economy shows even a moderate recovery, the obsolescence by
itself would be a factor stimulating demand well above the present capacity of
the financial system. Moreover, a substantial backlog of non-funded SMI
investment projects exists, mainly as a result of lack/shortage of appropriate
term credit. In addition, another survey among 16 private banks which may
participate under the project shows that they could grant some US$115 million
per year, to about 650 enterprises, under appropriate terms and conditions. The
results of the above limited surveys and the obsolescence factor, coupled with
the current low indebtedness arLd improved outlook for SMIs (SAR, pars. 2.08),
including possible additional investment needs to be produced by the expected
export expansion, support the view that SMI investment levels are likely to be
at the upper end of the range mentioned above.
2.       BANADE's lending to SMIs during the last two years also supports the
SMIs' expected investment demand, even taking into account that BANADE had been
lending basically to large firms. During 1985, BANADE granted about US$300
million equivalent in credits to industrial enterprises, including SMIs, with a
low average subloan size of US$125,000. Mainly because of limited available
resources on adequate terms, BANADE subloans in local currency to SMIs only
amounted to about US$46.0 million equivalent, on a short-to medium-term basis.
During the first seven months of 1986 BANADE's SMI lending increased
considerably. It disbursed about US$150 million equivalent, mainly to SMIs,
using local sources. The 1986 figures for SMIs mainly represent a BCRA
rediscount line to BANADE (operating both as a first- and second-tier facility)
to finance locally produced equipment and goods, with repayment terms of up to
five years, and with lending rates of 8% and 12% per annum on indexed
"australes"- denominated subloans. From March (when this lending started) to
September 1986, BANADE committed about US$90 million equivalent under such line,
which depends entirely upon uncertain availability of funds from BCRA. BANADE's



-19-
second-tier operations under that facility currently represent about 50% of total
comitments. BANADE has informed that lending under the BCRA line amounted to
about US$130 million by year-end 1986 (representing the first nine months of
operations). Aside from these resources, BANADZ's funds to provide adequate term
financing for 8KI investment subprojects are limited,



-20-
ANN"EX 3
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Assistance (TA)
A.      Background
1.       Recent studies and mission interviews revealed SMI needs for
assistance, mainly in the areas of management, marketing, finance and
accounting, product design and technological innovation, to improve productivity
and efficiency. Although basic specific technical knowledge of some of the
existing small entrepreneurs seems appropriate at their present level of
production, their managerial skills leave room for improvement. Even at the
upper end of the segment (enterprises with 50-100 employees and US$l-2 million
in investments) accounting information is often perceived more as a fiscal
obligation than as a managerial tool. Moreover, lack of appropriate financial
data has often been mentioned by banks as an important obstacle in providing
financial assistance to SMIs. Having grown in a highly protected economy
followed by a "survival" period (in the late 1970s and early 1980s) marketing,
particularly export marketing, seems to be a widespread weakness among SKI
entrepeneurs. The failure, over the past decade, to invest in product
development and innovation has also left a majority of the smaller firms far
behind in recent technological developments, such as numerically controlled
machinery and computer-aided design techniques, and in new product lines such as
medical instrumentation and microelectronics. Finally, an important problem
reported by small entrepreneurs is entrepreneurial succession. The proposed
project will assist in addressing some of the above-mentioned constraints.
Institutional Setup For Assiting SNI"
2.       Several public and private sector organizations have been providing
some TA to SMIs during the last decade. However, assistance has been too
sporadic or restricted in coverage, and results have been rather meager because
of lack of specific programs or insufficient financial resources to support
those activities. The creation, in October 1985, of the Subsecretariat for Small
and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SSME) at the Secretariat of Industry and Trade
(SIT) and recent developments during project preparation (para. 3 ) have created
the potential for a coordinated assistance to SMIs among, at least, the
organizations described in the following paragraphs.
3.       SSME - Network of Regional TA Centers (RTACsW. SSME has taken, as part
of project preparation, an active role in setting up a mechanism (RTACs) to
provide some TA services to SMIs. In June 1986, a SIT resolution created the
scheme to establish a network of RTACs in all provinces. RTACs are expected to:
(a) assist SMIs regarding the mechanics to obtain financial assistance; (b)
provide information apon investment oD>ortunities, promotional regimes, tax
benefits and requirements to establish or operate a SMI; (c) provide industrial
extension materials to SMIs in managerial and technical matters ; (d) help



-21-
entrepreneurs to identify technical assistance needs and refer them to
specialized organizations; and (e) promote organization of common-interest
groups for bulk purchasing, exporting and investment activities. RTACs would be
staffed through a joint effort by SIT, National Development Bank (BANADE),
National Institute of Industrial Technology (INTI), and the corresponding
provincial Government. Each organization would basically provide one professional,
by reallocating members of their current staff. The RTACs' activities would be
coordinated by a unit in SSME (the Central Unit--CU), assisted by an Advisory
Board already created, which includes representatives of the public and private
sectors , upon invitation from SSME. As of October 1986, ten provincial
governments had already signed, or were close to signing, an agreement with SIT,
which is required to establish the corresponding RTAC.
4.        Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial (INTI). INTI was
established in 1957, as an autonomous institution reporting to SIT, to assist
the manufacturing sector through R & D and technological services. Throughout
the years, INTI has grown into a large institution, covering areas as diverse as
meat processing, telecommunications, metallurgy, fishing, plastics and
microelectronics. Its present staff (about 1,600, of whom nearly 1,000 are
professionals) is highly qualified in different technologies. INTI's
technological centers and laboratories offer over 3,000 types of industrial and
quality control tests. However, the impact of INTI upon industries and, in
particular, upon SMIs, has been below its possibilities. INTI's activities have
become bureaucratized and are perceived, by a number of entrepreneurs, as
somewhat isolated from the every-day technical needs of enterprises. Very
little has been done in industrial extension services or in taking the
initiative to identify SMIs' problems, and/or to diffuse state-of-the-art
technologies of common use in more advanced countries. Until 1980, INTI enjoyed
a sort of financial autonomy because its financial resources were provided by a
0.25% tax upon all industrial loans by the banking system. Since that year, its
operations are financed through fiscal budgetary allocations and service fees
(18% of total needs in 1985).
5.       INTI has the equipment and facilities, as well as the staff, to offer a
meaningful technical assistance program to SMIs, provided that policy
reorientation and structural reorganization is made. Under the guidance of the
Subsecretary of SMEs who, at the time of appraisal, was simultaneously occupying
t'.le position of President of INTI, this institution is undergoing a major policy
and structure review. As a result, a working plan is currently being prepared
by INTI which, among other things, is expected to foster an opening of INTI
tc,,ard industry, to retrain some of its professionals in direct services to
6,iterprises, and to increase production-oriented technological and managerial
assistance, with particular emphasis upon SMIs. While such a plan is independent
of the proposed TA component, it would, if carried forward along the lines
currently being discussed, help project execution.
6.       Within INTI, three centers/programs are of particular interest to SMIs
and would be reinforced under the proposed project: (a) CIME (Center for
Research of Methods and Techniques for SMIs), established in 1958 as a joint
venture between INTI and the Chamber of Metalurgical SMIs. Although its results
in the past have been rather weak and its resources very limited, it has been
the "keeper of the flame" for SMIs within INTI. Its main activity, in recent
years, has been to organize a modest number of self-financed training seminars
for entrepreneurs in the areas of general management and production control.



-22-
Through an expansion of its activities, CIME could become INTI's link with the
network of RTACs, could increase Its training programs, and could prepare
extension materials in entrepreneurial training to be distributed by INTI's
centers and by RTACs; (b) CITSAFE (Technolog cal Research Center of Santa Fe).
Through this center, in Rosario, INTI has developed a methodology ("Programa de
Asistencia Tecnica Integral" - PATI), which is similar to the "cluster" approach
developed under Bank projects in other countries and which serves the dual
purpose of: (i) retraining and assisting groups of small
entrepreneurs/enterprises in solving managerial/production problems through a
program of discussions, group work and in-plant assistance throughout 18
calendar months of intermitent but sequential work; and (ii) providing
additional direct and on-the-job training to a corps of management advisory
agents to assist SMIs. The methodology has already been modestly, but
successfully, tested in Argentina. The program, properly updated and expanded,
could be the basis for a pilot Management Advisory Program (MAP) to SMIs; and
(c) CID (Research Docum,ntation Center), intended to be a technological
information facility to industrial enterprises. While it has gathered a
sizeable amount of technological information, it has, according to its users,
failed in delivering such information. A review of its procedures and
additional equipment seems necessary to help it to a^hieve its goals.
7.       Private organizations and banks assisting SMIs.  Amor.g private
institutions, assistance to SMIs has been mainly in the area of general
training, with the focus being more upon the entrepreneur than upon the
enterprise. Training for SMI entrepreneurs and managers has seen an increase
lately, following a growing demand from SMIs. Two particularly active centers
have been CEPADE ("Centro de Perfeccionamiento en Administracion de Empresas")
of the Catholic University in Cordoba and CEDE/ACDE (Centro de Desarrollo
Empresarial/Asoc. Cristiana de Empresarios") in Buenos Aires. CEPADE's training
short-term seminars cater to entrepreneurs and executives of all sizes of
enterprises; however, about one-third of the participants were SMIs in the last
ten years. Recently, in 1985, CEPADE established an advisory group integrated
by SMI entrepreneurs and a specialized Center for SMI management assistance.
CEDE/ACDE started an SMI entrepreneurial training program in 1981. The program,
built through group training and self-diagnosis of enterprises, covers mainly
areas of organization and management in small firms. CEDE delivers about 30
short-term courses each year. In the banking community, there are also
institutions providing some type of TA to SMIs: (a) BANADE, which provides
limited assistance to its SMI clients during subproject preparation and
supervision; (b) " Fundacion Banco de Boston" and "Fundacion Banco de la Ciudad
de Buenos Aires," which provide mainly some export-promotion-oriented training
and direct assistance; (c)"Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires," which has a
department specialized in financial and technical assistance for technological
innovation subprojects; and (d) "Banco Espanol del Rio de la Plata,' which
offers an integrated package of services to SNIs, inciuding enterprise
diagnosis, assistance in loan applications and specialized SMI publications. All
of these programs, which have a limited coverage, are financed either through
fees charged to the enterprises or contributions by the sponsoring institutions.
B. The Proposed Project's TA Component
8.       The main objectives of the TA component would be to: (a) support the
modernization and increase the efficiency and productivity of SMIs; (b) support
the starting of a coordinated TA program for SMIs and the strengthening of the



-23-
institutional mechanism to provide such assistance; and (c) increase the
effectiveness of BANADE (as a second- and first-tier financial supplier) and
participating banks (PBs) in providing financial assistance to SMIs. The project
would use three main TA delivering channels to SMIs: (a) SSME/RTACs; (b) INTI,
through its specialized and technological centers; and (c) BANADE/FOPYME/PBs.
Each of these institutiot,s would, in turn, receive TA and project-related
training (PRT). A summary description of the TA component's main activities, is
showed in the following paragraphs, and details are presented in Attachment 1.
9.        Assistance to SMIs through SSME/RTACs  The project would assist in the
installation and initial operation of the RTAC's network. The estimated
subcomponent total cost amounts to US$526,000 equivalent, of which the proposed
loan would provide up to US$400,000 equivalent. The subcomponent would: (a)
provide initial training for the RTACs and CU's personnel; (b) assist CU in
analyzing information and procedures required to establish SMI firms, including
the recommendations, as well as preparation of an informative manual upon the
above; (c) assist RTACs in the preparation of project-oriented studies to
identify market possibilities and potential opportunities for the establishment
or expansion of SMIs; and (d) help to provide some of the equipment required for
the initial operation of five RTACs and CU (e.g., vehicles, microcomputers and
software, and other office equipment). Part (a) would be financed entirely with
Government resources. The proposed loan would make available resources to
finance consultancy costs, equipment, and study trips abroad included in the
rest of the program. To maximize the impact of financial and human resources
available, the proposed loan would concentrate its support upon five pilot
centers selected by the Government, to represent different realities in terms of
SMIs' potential growth, subsectors, and the degree of interest by provincial
governments. The proposed regions are: Santa Fe, Rio Negro, Tucuman, Mendoza, and
Chaco. CU would monitor the results and derive experiences for the rest of the
centers.
10.      The initial training program for the staff of the five RTACs and CU
would consist of 18 days of training through successive three-day seminar-type
meetings at each of the selected locations and in Buenos Aires. The training
would focus upon areas such as: orientation to the overall SMI policies and
programs; basic elements of project preparation and appraisal; basic concepts of
enterprise management; industrial extensionism including techniques of group
work; general aspects regarding taxes, trade, technology; and study-visits to
institutions dealing with SMIs. SSME would be responsible for this training,
using as instructors senior officers from SIT and institutions dealing with
SMIs. As part of the training, four senior staff members of the initial group
would take two-weeks visits to other countries operating successful extension
services. The initial training of the five pilot centers' staff is expected to
be completed by April 1987.
11.       Assistance to SMIs through INTI.  Under the proposed project, the TA
subcomponent to be channeled through INTI would have a total cost of about US$
2.5 million, of which US$0.4 million (only for MAP) would be financed with loan
proceeds, US$1.4 million approximately by the end-users of the assistance and
the balance by INTI. INTI's program would be executed through different centers
and programs, all under the coordination of INTI's National Director of
Promotion and Development (NDPD).
12.      The content of each of the INTI programs can be summarized as follows:



-24-
CIME.   This center would carry out the entrepreneurial training subcomponent,
(which is modular and could be modified depending upon the demand from the
enterprises), which is intended to build up the managerial skills of existing
entrepeneurs. The subcomponent total cost would reach to about US$0.7 million
during three years and would not require project financing. Its cost would be
basically financed by fees paid by trainees, expected to be mainly SMIs, and by
a small INTI contribution. Training would consist of 30-40-hour seminars, at
times accessible to enterprises. Subjects to be covered would be related to the
operational areas of the enterprises and general managerial matters. Detailed
contents of some of the seminars were discussed during project appraisal and are
available in project files; others would be developed according to the
prevailing SMI needs and experience obtained from the implementation of the
previous seminars. It is expected that some 24 courses per year would be
delivered throughout three years. In addition, self-learning guides and
audio-visual training aids, covering the essentials of some of the subjects
mentioned above, would be prepared to reach entrepreneurs unable to attend
formal seminars. CIME would also prepare, assisted by other INTI centers,
extension materials dealing with basic technical and managerial topics, to be
distributed through RTACs. The execution of CIME's program includes staffing
reinforcement of some four professionals.
Management Advisory Program (MAP). This program would provide in-plant
managerial assistance, group assistance, and in-plant entrepreneurial training.
It would build up upon the CITSAFE experience, applying the PATI methodoloy. As
an outcome of the process, junior advisory agents would get trained to become
senior agents. It is expected that MAP, through the PATI methodology, would
reach about 480 enterprises in three years. The execution of the program would
start with eight senior agents and is expected to finish with a corps of 32,
ready to begin a new phase. (The training program for junior advisory agents
would consist of seminar-type meetings for a total of eight weeks and on-the-job
training for about 24 months. The whole training is provided by senior agents
and consultants, as appropriate. The seminars will cover two major aspects: (a)
managerial and technical matters related to the operational areas of SMIs; and
(b) human relations, characteristics of the SMI entrepreneurs in Argentina, and
the relationship between the technical adviser and the entrepreneurs. About 80%
of the time would be used for the first set of topics; and 20% for the other.
The case system would be applied, using, as teaching materials, cases based upon
Argentine experiences and technical notes regarding the corresponding subjects.
A limited number of lectures would also be included). In addition to the
"cluster" work, MAP would provide direct in-plant managerial assistance to about
690 SMIs during project implementation. Assistance would be limited to
managerial matters; technological requests would be referred to the appropriate
INTI specialized centers. The program would also develop, test and apply
computer models, which would facilitate SMIs' diagnosis and problem
identification. NDPD would be responsible for the execution of this
subcomponent. MAP's total cost is expected to be about US$1.8 million. INTI's
authorities have estimated that, based upon CITSAFE experience, nearly US$1.1
million would be covered by the fees paid by participating beneficiaries and
that only US$0.7 million would need to be financed by the TA component of the
proposed project, of which the proposed loan would make available up to
US$400,000. Loan resources would help to finance: (a) consultancy costs for
training the agents providing assistance to SMIs (both as group and in-plant),
and developing the computer model above-mentioned; (b) three-weeks study trips
abroad for two senior officers to visit similar successful MAP programs in other



-25-
countries; and (c) vehicles, microcomputers and software.
CID.      This subcomponent would basically address the deficiencies detected by
INTI authorities and by entrepreneurs, in the delivery system of technical
information. As part of the proposed project, rasources would be available to
finance: (a) costs to hire foreign consultants, as appropriate, with practical
in-depth experience in the operation of technological information systems; (b) a
two-week visit by one CID's staff to a successful foreign experience; and (c)
the acquisition of supplementary equipmXent. Although the CID subcomponent is
considered a part of the TA component of the project, INTI's authorities have
expressed the desire to finance this subcomponent (US$ 206,000 equivalent),
including the foreign costs, with own resources.
13.      Assistance to BANADE/FOPYME/PBs. BANADE's current management is
embarked upon a plan to increase institutional efficiency, streamline operating
procedures, and upgrade staff's managerial and technical capabilities. The
proposed project would provide support for such plan, as well as for
strengthening BANADE's second-tier SMI operations --FOPYKE system (Annexes 4 and
5), In this regard, the TA subcomponent would focus upon assistance to BANADE
to: (a) strengthen its training program regarding first and second-tier SKI
operations, including PBs'staff; (b) prepare subsectoral studies to assist with
subproject appraisal and credit decisions; and (c) complete and improve its
management information and portfolio monitoring systems, including the
processing of information at the regional branch level and the linkage between
branches and headquarters. The estimated subcomponent cost amounts to about
US$2.1 million equivalent, of which the loan would provide US$1.1 million.
Specifically, loan resources would be available to finance: (a) consultancy and
seminars costs included in the preceding activities ; (b) short study trips
abroad; and (c) computer and software costs for the information and data
processing system.
14.      BANADE/FOPYME would carry out the training program under its technical
assistance component, essentially through seminars to be implemented by BANADE's
Training Institute, which has the organization to perform the required tasks.
While most of the instructors for this program would be available locally and
even some within the institution, it was considered desirable to reinforce the
training staff by external consultants, who could contribute with an outside
view and a different operational experience. The seminars would focus upon
subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision, with special emphasis upon:
assessing market potential, analyzing the justification of the new investment,
discussing the implications of technical choices in comparison with
state-of-the-art technology, assessment of managerial capabilities, analyzing
repayment capacity, evaluating the incremental impact of new investments upon
the overall enterprise, and discussing the practical objectives of the
supervision. For each group of trainees (20-25 for each seminar), there would
be two types of training: (a) the initial six-day seminars aimed at providing
the general tools upon all aspects of subproject preparation, appraisal and
supervision, and focussing upon the above-mentioned specific matters, basically
through technical notes and case discussions; and (b) the follow up six-day
seminars, to be carried out four to six months after the initial ones. These
seminars would be implemented through the case system, reviewing the experience
of the preceding months and based upon subprojects prepared under the FOPYME
scheme, as appropriate. The last part of these seminars would be devoted to
subproject supervision, discussing, among other things, supervision objectives,
basic procedures for subproject follow up and indicators to measure subloan



-26-
impact assessment, and technical notes and real experience under FOPYME. About
200 professionals would be trained. The seminars for BANADE's staff to be
assigned to RTACs would be of a more general nature, focusing upon four major
topics: credit available SMIs, general aspects of subproject preparation and
specific requirements from BANADE/FOPYME, extension services and human relations
(the latter along the corresponding lines described for training the RTACs staff
--tara. 10 ). The training material would be the terms and conditions and
requirements established by the credit sources, complemented by conferences and
some case discussions. The overall training program would also include two-week
study visits, by three FOPYME staff and three BANADE first-tier staff, to
successful second-tier and SMI operations in other Latin American countries.
15.      SMI subsector studies would be financed to assist financial
intermediaries in the selection of viable industrial subproject proposals.
BANADE, through its Economic Studies Department, would carry out about 15 branch
studies covering, among other things: data upon subsector organization;
installed capacity; age and technological obsolescence of machinery; market
possibilities; cost competitiveness; development potential and constraints;
financial situation and investment potential. In carrying out these studies,
BANADE would need assistance from external consultants, for which the
project/loan would provide funding. An initial list of branches to be studied
includes: food processing, and in particular, those with potential for
integration with Brazil; leather garments and apparel; agricultural machinery;
and automotive parts. Other subsectors would be defined jointly and reviewed
periodically by BANADE and the Bank, depending upon the needs prevailing during
project implementation.
16.      The project would also help BANADE to complement its data processing
needs aimed at establishing a management information system. In this regard,
loan resources would be available to finance computer equipment (microcomputers,
terminals and linkage modems, as appropriate) and software for: (a) FOPYME's
operations, including statistical information and subproject analysis; (b)
BANADE's first-tier activities under FOPYME and for purposes similar to those
stated in (a); (c) the Economic Department, to monitor, among other things,
industrial subsectoral information; (d) integration of the preceding activities
to the Centra'l Processing Unit (CPU); and (e) regional offices, including their
linkage to the central system. BANADE expects to finance under ongoing loan
2063-AR the strengthening of CPU (through increasing storage capacity, upgrading
the main frame computers and purchasing additional software) to complete some of
the information sub-systems currently under implementation (Annex 5, para. 5).
Other sub-systems to be completed are: (a) portfolio, including total portfolio
and arrears, with breakdown by small, medium and large firms; age; principal and
interests; repayments and restructurings; subsectors and provinces; and amounts
corresponding to the previous and current year; and (b) comparative monthly
financial indicators.



sex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   3, Atebt1
aKL a)UD3 -    OMIT   Wr
btrted Cmts  d P1zoIzF fr '1cdcal AvsW-  Prxq
(1967-1989)
Bwk     local   Txm
It_ to be          F I          I/ <ot      iatuti1        te                 4cf
A. Pr  1
, - G tit SW /0m 3
a) Pzwli 19itai  h                     Is 18 oe trnim4  dwaoh                         Itf1 tlm1          -       40.0   40.0   S9             TMIM  20               .
fz th  taff of fi  pilvot    so-se 3-dq u-       mt* s np  af _mwi                    & aqdxtm1                                                staff             1967.
ffu  ad of 0rai u at        at .        .  82-vIaIts to               _uu.                                                                    of 5 
gmT                          imcmicm  off.dqt .winv    to EU.s.                                                                                 da five Of
1b  wads suy-tuii tDoxxtdias wth                        ftanmelo           22.0     4.0   26.0         SSW  89ima1                 Vz4 Qmt
emafm  e qM  in aU                                      tUq &                                                   trin   for         1957.
8fvlw (eg., _ pzf-au1  to                   apwi                                                                 4     f.
3Nloo, Ad o   tm   _ fm1om1s to
%win udy)-
b) Dwalop an   at               *     a so* to VU  M infinmtin                        ozltzte           24.0    24.0    4.0         gm         Ppam of            S dS
-  t,,i _,.Azmtm             ,,- re*dnmim. ad pwoc-                                                                                             i tpIad1         of 198   d
=p'-axl                                                                                                                                                     ft=  oo a tl  e  r of
ua  z I ao08d tnomiw to     irm          nfcmtiom In 1WavAr  wA kaqw                                                                         i,om&ua1            fttu t
-MM4     o u.md ES.&  It upiutof.                                                                                                          =Wal for auIN
F , &     e d c   _ to faitd"L,ad   -x 9                                                                                                                          91B
wro )Y InIm                                                                                                                                    for afIca-
Pm C .abe me for                                                                                                                               tiaIof   m
din tbtim 1e  ,,                                                                                                                               ipdn ,,,
diOttib3tiM bY OWh RW-                                                                                     proowkwm--                             -
Dini ad  tubli a artwlnd                            l                      18.0    14.0  148.0         SS          tdAs         of    Om  w.
4nImai qutm In om1 tx                                  oza1 cm-          116.0                                 tdi infa1           1988
iiaCl"ito S yd.lot gSr.                                 pew ad 5                                                 sotu  In t}i
*t  o s                                                  5 PMlot
(+  I Fe)                                                 d C. Xt.
C) Ptodde WomoAb with        3PEt.                                                    S oddineS.        140.0    2D.0  160.0         SWE       )A  S <.eentr    sa    d 
tddl   ad officle -                                                                   Tpi, ad                                                  an C. Unt          1987.
for Its Initil qmutimfal/                                                             opyfr sg~d
4sdom Ic  tiviis                                                                       wIi
d) Xdfir  aI                 1tice CI =         WOU4am                 _ataa                             80.0    24.0  104.0         SSW        d glt             Sm
OsgUDlu tot                                                                                                                               *        !       ltOf 1967 ad 1986.
uff     utm to msa                                                                                                                             fo SUm ing  
in dim atI      a                                                                                                                              food, brofza.tr
~. ft,jn- 1iawc   TA tln   SIMN                                                                   400.0   126.0  526.0
i nco dizt awtcw   -wam ad                 &JWi darn Yta.
mo_               s im inUdsm  in al, Jay 117.
y6 _,adut  f  tU ad %Wtt Scatf ttttta    ad fgiai Tsd-I AlAstm Cam, rn.RptIY.



MUS 3, Att        I
.qp 2
B-M       7ACa1  Tota1
It    t  e   pad      pw  I/ ooot  Tn=4t7ti                          W..  _.4_
3. PM U
Md t1a NLJCDWI 3/
4) _m.it DWE1n0 In           P       ad daliver dmwt (3040 kuD)                      W-   qDs.         -    144.0  154.0         CDC          I d   a 24    1987: 12 _
mII  a W sm fLa           1       dalnlq s in m  wxh W:                        PC am              -      10.0                                  P        1998: 30  _c
W      in    1   Zt  ad aNdI1t ;W. WO&ctI                               6            Smw to tral                                                             1989: 3D sadin
by deI1f  e  In                      _a a1  sl                                                                                              140 earn-
_~1a1 ad wd11                    -1 ,, awt    ,                                                      vJ                                             1s.
fta-4a1 -W*ad -0ml
UNa Of CM a In 8A, g.A1
ft _  ad padv 1m"  GE  _a                             til1 pjx _mzm    -    120.0  132.0           Cl6          Ono   the      1987: 6  _1a.
ad ad_o-,Is_l aitb bee d_9                            hdlav1.                   12.0                               bis ad
ct cmm_ dwe, to be dtun sL f-                         O*adtp .                                                   I.il far      1988: 6   _nls.
Imr   by atk a                                             k RxeIa 11.-                                        10-12 bod
IF madam.                                                     thmatt                                               mad         197-09: dIm-
abject                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~dlstribLmt tD   ftrixah  to
Pupwmat o       m  sn1.                               Pn-t*Ar4g          -      50.0   50.0        C6           Q.a 24        1987: 4 bodd.t
(-k dbve1p    ) at 1)                                peinm 6                                                   bokl.t  s-   196: 8 bo1.tm
t a d soIeael tqaIm to                        iqwt1gm of                                               hg badc tat-   1989: 12 bwMets
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      a
b) 1r  ad atry *t a                                 in                              S. _dw                   144.0   14.0        CIl         Cdi   12             p tie
tICnlq .      to u98t                u l0tIpcm                                                                                                               Ija    S1ad
_ tdn1 dmalpt.   d_ nr.1 c, af die tp  _/                                                                                                    1WS1S tt  1987.
AM1 or Intlm b*zWucmnwd&l                                                                                       OL
D_hO3n             I1gM                                                                                        radaz 360       1988:  6 _
towa1e  ad fofla'q.                                                                                            potemlal        1989:  6 eadn.
1*_ atptr4m for 2 adec                              lInMrAtI*1           -      12.0   12.0       CR6            _             -.  _er
atMf to Silat tLrip  adins                           fe1Ig ind                                                 &*iItIAu       1987.
(e  . tM ad in".                                     eaa.                                                      Infert
-AE& for
qduS441 hfatetm ! W1!!D=
C)  Stneath- -d I                       do taidde p_c Omi.                                                   156.0 2C6.0         CID                  an Sa ed a eo af
m tn&wtdA tmdwaUgLol          Opidt tLd --go   anfma -.                                                       3D.0                              i1, ad 191.
I dt_ qu_ to                      w (CID). Pnoaeds  m1                              twue.1 ad                                                delvecy
36* aidi otia-t&.Gt wt        inarAltmy Ad a cm      wm                             acctiessoies.                                            uptm of
tad-V.                       tW 11 OIINS (e.g..                                     rntim 1                   2D.0                           t1ad
UK,  )i.                                               _    almuttmInom1
_uu    ad bzt'l                                          to Ms.
1W      =/  - /Cin" CI                                                                         0.0   698.0  696.0
*A: S   _*     m    vd Mt   d   lam I mI   4tvtd              lt f a)  6fid be f2u   : n   II byfa  dId by bica.  Atvitliw   P*rt n b) amud be            by DItL  Actvit
et   C u3d 1.iua3   e f       by D=4 bt:arpet   tumd pW for the maim   -ald. Pwt UI a) ad b)   inde4in ad et,Iz1m/u ctad bwfo muldpd dldy pm th   I  d_
Lw sob SYm.
im, dimt   1 -t  -  ad -f Iq tm pu.
M.mdm 1         fagti  so mly my 1w.
m i.1 3mdf at Ia 1  bo3u  ad _a                             _wt & NA Twbudu        fo  I6., metiw1y.
Y -.  ftdm dr.
36 _ - _         D     _ _m



MU 3, AttIdut I
Po 3
fl.k      local   Toa
ltm to be           F b *     1Fmds I/ it       Im,tittoml                                    Of
0bjecaveI                                                                                             od                       (I $000T           PpmmibLty    b.fits                 umcztio
d) moist IxN in c                Tmizn4 t as ot f aaoyadv       ps an                             0utIts  ud           72.0     8D.0   152.0   lRMNlt(onal    Establis   A             S9xxd s_
so suipprting a    at            tbw*it a  t1         ad    and oa-                                     r S sW              Mize. of                                 oate a  orps  aof 197 wA 1988.
aivldzy    p cmpble of           t-job tnainix  4xvrhW   in tt                                                                                     PFt>iac and       of 32 salr
EEWidlm awfnh-_"                  mm-xalw is  -st=  top,                                                                                          Deve1npe            wscrY
anistoe to  9                    (e.g. A             accoting    ad ficsl                                                                          ND/CITSM FE 2/
U-gmn;  geoe;  P-ra
_wwm).
iort o          study-trwsB to visdt                            Xnteostignxu           -       12.0    12.0      DMNltU'D         Aitiooad           Secmi   mter
m-OfuJ. n            sivicay                                    tiaeUin and                                                       tEiniig fw         1987.
exptlxm  (e.g., F!WAe, SpOW.                                    eSmmes.                                                           2 surAi
staff.
e) ftuide Comhive                lst.bUsh 16 gswu  of aftqpwu                                     0A d                144.0    480.0   624.0       DGNf/1t'         Assit 480 S0e   1997:   W SKs
eSIt inistw  to                   aid qply iole PAT utidolM ot ivr ddtiwy Cts.                                                                       TWFE           partcipati        1988: 180 S9Is
grwm of Ms tbxugh g1ddut  Of toD   M y aWta per VWateptis                                                                                                                              1989: 240 9Ia.
iljgziatj   of PAM gpoup.                                                                                                                                           etl       the ful
(Ptqp    i de M1st iA                                                                                                                                               cycef PATI
f) Proide In-plat m-             Plant Visi"  it peqsta of it                                   04latB.              98.0    700.0   846.0       DITI/WD          I-Pit              1987: 100 MU
pria' mavistaxe to IvIoenl   utetpeis  dis .  S4pply af                                           2  ddels             28.0                                          m                 198B: 300 %,U
firms. Also blip iffiy           in-pit t  .ult.iy loeae        l                                                                                                   to to dx           1989: 300 Qfs
pmlbls t~sodboo cal battle-    problm. Id.tIfy tedwlqA1                                           0dA  e piss                    20.0                               700 SMIs.
nek-s  mfm  to qspiAllmd    1          m fu tferml to tfdcca
inz 
g) Aist II in deve_out    Am    or develp, tat and qPly                                             Calta2s.           36.0    120.0   178.0    NDI/(MP)             Proride advic      1987-9.
AM oWjc    of cc COer Xp                            to   ipd q>                                   2  M ad                                                            to m    IOD
-nlstad     ".m, to faU-    problm iy1ffest1mo prsnzus                                            softe.               22.0                                          SEEs in
tote di4mais in Mau firm         in as  Pradd swim to 3.                                                         2Introdig
aid Increase    _  1 aun Inttdocin                       in                                                                                                          (oNtoU  In
effidaxw.                        C-pow .   -vamt.                                                                                                                    MW        .
in ftpliagia
af tim diwo1i-
IUPW                                                                                                                  400.0  1,412.0  1,812.0
M  frm      bn        . 1eek8.0  10o.
pugmem, Plnwigi  SaWaLred.                                                                                            400.0    3.0 0   732.0
MmL M tIWo          mmh                                                                                               400.0  2.110.0  2,510.0
I/ Tzl  din dit cxtaptrt  mama and idg  &z    eame yu.  i  estetpart staff Is timemm staff pwroldIz  tralu mle bed"Al).
'     duwclnm  lminx& Oa    f sE B      s.



}#  O        O    q       O 0e00                  00       0 d0f
X}    O   4 i  O    $  O     a;        I le       O 4 'I~~~~, ,-.-I 
S!   00;   3  O    a         0;d   >0t~~~~~~41 1  iI
4] 01fl{|} gi{}ffl j itftltW }|"} |-|- l
11111l;  .iiiX- Iiiflififfef I    I               U



-31-
ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
Development Fund for SMIs (FOPYME)
1.        Establishment. organization and management. FOPYME has been established
within Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE)'s Financial Unit as a second-tier
financial mechanism. Such unit operates BANADE's existing discount credit lines
with the banking system. FOPYME would operate under its own Policy Statement and
Regulations as a permanent fund with its own objectives, accounts, staff and
resources, which would be kept separated from BANADE's other resources. It is
anticipated that FOPYME would ultimately operate a variety of industrial discount
lines using term credit from different sources. (Annex 7, Table 1 shows some
FOPYME expected financial indicators).
2.        FOPYME would be headed by a director responsible for managing and
promoting the operations of the fund. BANADE has appointed FOPYKE's director and
provided it with supporting full-time technical staff and logistics facilities for
appropriate project implementation. The director would initially be assisted by
two departments, with six professionals each. One department would be in charge
of subproject evaluation and supervision and coordination of the technical
assistance component of the proposed project regarding FOPYME; the other, of
administration and control of the operations, and evaluation and follow up
activities regarding participating banks (PBs). All accounting, financial resource
management and general housekeeping functions would be performed by BANADE for
FOPYME. BANADE's salary structure, which was recently improved, may still be not
enough to encourage the retention of highly qualified full-time staff at FOPYME.
This situation should be monitored closely during project implementation. The
proposed organization and staffing arrangements appear adequate to carry out the
project during the first two years. As the volume of operations grows, BANADE
would review both organization and staffing.
3.         Operating policies and grocedures. Policies and procedures that would
govern FOPYME's operations are set forth in the draft Statement of Policies and
Operating Regulations. They specify, among other things: (a) FOPYME's
objectives; (b) FOPYME's stablishment as a permanent second-tier mechanism and
its financial resources insulated from BANADE's ordinary operations; (c) type of
enterprises or subprojects that FOPYME would finance; (d) terms, conditions and
limits of financing; (e) criteria for subproject approval; (f) requirements for
banks to participate as financial intermediaries and their corresponding
responsibilities; and (g) processing of the operations. The Statement of
Policies and the Operating Regulations as presently drafted would form a
satisfactory base for FOPYME's channeling of Bank funds for industrial lending
under the proposed project.



-32-
4.       5ubpr2Jgct appraisal and supervision. Subprojects financed by FOPYME are
expected to vary in complexity and size, from small-artisan projects to medium-
size industrial subprojects. It is expected that most subprojects would be for
expansion, with about 10% constituting new investment enterprises. Thus, in line
with general appraisal guidelines, the depth and complexity of subproject
appraisals by PBs and BANADE as direct lender, as well as reviews by FOPYME,
would vary to fit the size and nature of individual subprojects (SAR, para. 3.13).
Standardized applications for rediscount, according to general appraisal
guidelines to be issued by FOPYME, which would include matters on subprojects
complying with local environmental and safety regulations, would be required.
While PBs would be responsible for preparing subproject appraisals, FOPYME would
initially assist them with such activities. Most of the commercial banks have
experience just in short-term lending, and their supervision activities are
concentrated upon investment followup during the disbursement period. BANADE as a
direct lender has enough term lending experience, but its analysis should focus
more upon the subproject than upon the enterprises' past and present situation
(Annex 5, pura. 4). In addition its supervision activities should be
systematized. FOPYME's staff is expected to have technical background and
experience for subproject appraisal and supervision. To help ensure appropriate
results , the project would include training in this area (Annex 3, para. 14).
5.        PBs and BANADE first-tier would be responsible for making periodic
supervision visits to SMIs financed under FOPYME; for maintaining credit files
and procurement and commercial invoice records adequate to show that the items
financed had been procured; for following up upon the financial and operational
progress of each subproject; and for determining the status and perspectives of
the enterprise, including the corresponding recommendations and identification
of technical assistance needs. These requirements would be in line with standard
practice for efficient development finance institutions and for commercial
banks. To simplify the banks own supervision activities, FOPYME would prepare
subproject supervision guidelines, including a standard supervision report
format, that would be used by PBs and become a part of the file for each
subproject. FOPYME would supervise the adequacy of PBs procedures and, upon a
sample basis, the adherence of PBs to their participation agreement.
6.        PBs. Any commercial, regior,al or cooperative bank (PB) may participate
under FOPYME, provided that it is accepted by FOPYME/BANADE (in consultation
with the Central Bank) based upon creditworthiness analysis, complies with
FOPYME's requirements, and signs a participation agreement, which would include,
among other things, that the PB: (a) establish a center of organizational
responsibility for managing FOPYME operations; (b) assist SNIs in preparing
subprojects and appraise and supervise them according to FOPYME's guidelines;
(c) be in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks and Central Bank ; and
(d) be responsible to repay to FOPYME regardless of receiving the corresponding
repayment from its SMI clients. To limit FOPYME exposure, PBs' access to FOPYME
resources would initially be up to 25% of their equity.



-33-
ANNEX 5
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
National Development Bank (BANADE)
Management. Organizati and Stafing
1.       BANADE's overall policy-making body is its Board of Directors. It is
composed of an Executive President, a Senior Vice-President and ten Directors,
all appointed by the Government. The Board appoints the General Manager, who is
in charge of the day-to-day operations. He is assisted by a Vice-General Manager
and six Assistant Managers. The Directors also have responsabilities to
coordinate some institutional activities, functions that overlap with some of
the line structure. This arrangement is aimed at improving the overall internal
communication and coordination. BANADE's current Executive President, who was
appointed in mid-1985 , after experience as BANADE's director and in private
banking, has strengthenied a program to modernize the institution and increase
its efficiency. The program focuses primarily upon establishing a managerial
information and data processing system, portfolio administration and control,
staff training, SMI lending and institutional efficiency, including operations
as a second-tier institution regarding SMI.
2.        BANADE operates through its headquarters and 33 provincial offices,
with about 3,600 employees, out of which about 1,400 are assigned to such
offices. In 1985, BANADE organized its provincial offices into six regions,
to increase coordination among the offices and descentralization from
headquarters. Despite these changes, BANADE is still a centralized institution.
BANADE's staff has been reduced about 10% by retirement and attrition during
the last two years, a trend which is expected to continue during 1986-1988
because BANADE's staff age curve is concentrated at ages close to retirement.
Rigid public sector regulations concerning job stability have prevented
successive managements from incroducing other types of measures. BANADE
estimates that between 1985 and 1988, about one-third of its managerial staff
would have retired and would have been replaced by qualified younger staff.
Although BANADE's salaries tend to be lower than in the industrial private
sector, the institution has been able to retain some experienced professionals
who give high value to employment stability. However, many of BANADE's staff
still maintain outside jobs, in spite of some recent salary increases. This
practice, while it affects productivity, has been common in Argentine civil
service for many years. BANADE's management is addressing this situation through
relatively better salaries and additional fringe benefits to full time staff,
within the limits established for the public sector, and through increased
training. As a result of the economic slowdown and consequent limited employment
opportunities, the institution has also been able to attract some young
qualified professionals.
3.         Regarding staff qualifications, while most of the middle and upper
level older staff are competent and knowledgeable in institutional procedures,



-34-
their training has been acquired essentially through practice within BANADE. Of
nearly 1,400 staff in banking operations, less than one-half had professional
training before joining BANADE. Similarly, only about one-half of the technical
staff in BANADE, which comprises about 240 employees in headquarters and 250 in
the branch offices, have university degrees. The other half have intermediate
degrees and have essentially acquired their training through their working
experience (15-20 years) in BANADE. While the staff's knowledge of BANADE's
procedures has given the institution a certain degree of continuity, it has, by
the same token, resulted in some institutional inflexibilities. BANADE has a
well established Training Department ("Instituto de Perfeccionamiento
Bancario-IPBn), which, during the last two years, has increased its activities
considerably. Staff is encouraged to participate in training programs by linking
promotion possibilities to training achievements.
SubDroject Appraisal and Supervision
4.        BANADE has developed acceptable subproject appraisal procedures and
capabilities, specially for existing firms, but improvements are still needed.
Large subprojects are evaluated by the department of the same name; SMI
subprojects, by professionals within the Technica'l Department (TD). SKI
subproject appraisal is conducted by teams of financial analysts, engineers, and
accountants, who devote most of the time to analyzing the past and present
situation of the enterprise. The analysis of variables such as the cost and
justification of the proposed investment, managerial and cash flow (mainly
sensitivity) aspects, as well as the marginal analysis of the new investment,
require additional upgrading. BANADE's SMI subproject supervision activities,
which are limited mainly to verification of expenditures, need strengthening,
particularly during the subproject's operational phase. The programing and scope
of these activities, the type of report and the follow up actions recommended
would follow FOPYME's requirements. The establishment by BANADE, as a direct
lender, of an initial group of some ten professionals dealing only with SKI
subproject appraisal and supervision under the project, coupled with the
training to be provided , should help to overcome the above constraints.
Information System
5.       BANADE's goal is to establish a management information system by
setting up a system capable of processing data from its different operational
areas. The execution of the corresponding plan, which started in 1984, was
entrusted to the Systems Department, under the direct supervision of BANADE's
Senior Vice President. So far, the following programs have been implemented or
are in the final stages of implementation: foreign currency operations, credit
portfolio, personnel management (payrolls, personal loans), accounting,
budgeting, general information files (e.g., client's credit record in the
banking system, list and characteristics of BANADE's correspondents), and
special programs for independent units (e.g., subproject appraisal for large
firms, liquidity analysis by the financial department). Additional work should
be done to finalize and strengthen some of the above-mentioned activities and
with regard to cash management, on-line integration of the regional offices to
the information system, portfolio monitoring and institutional financial
situation reporting. In addition, while there have been substantial advances in
the generation and processing of information, the integration element in the
form of a management information system is still missing. The proposed project
would provide financing for strengthening the system mainly regarding
information upon SMI first and second-tier operations (Annex 3, para. 16),



-35-
including support to help to integrate the information system. In addition,
BANADE, through the ongoing Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2063-AR), has
started, and expects to continue, financing additional needs regarding its
information and data processing system.
Financial Structure and Condition
6.      Financial structure. Operating in a shrinking financial market during the
1980s, BANADE has managed to somewhat maintain its asset size and the level of
its operations. In June 1986, BANADE reported total assets for US$5,2 billion
equivalent, representing the same level in US dollars, adjusted by the capital
goods price index, as in 1980 and a reduction of about 3% on average per annum
(p.a.) in constant US dollars (consumer price index) during the period (Annex 7,
Table 2). The total credit (loans and other receivables) of the institution
grew at a rate of about 6% on average p.a. in US dollars equivalent from US$3.6
billion in December 1980 to about US$4.8 billion in June 1986 (about the same
level in constant US dollars over the period). Of this total portfolio, about
62% were loans, 16% adjustments for inflation and accrued interest, and 22%
other credits and operations. Earning assets have remained a high proportion of
total assets (97.8% in December 1980 vs. 96.5% in June 1986).
7.      Reflecting the events of the Argentine economy during the 1980s, which
left few alternatives for banks seeking stability or growth, BANADE's financial
structure experienced significant changes during the last six years. In 1980,
loans in local currency represented about 50% of total assets; by June 1986,
this percentage had fallen to about 24%. These changes were closely matched by
changes in the sources of funds. In December 1980, only 35% of the total
liabilities and equity were foreign currency obligations; by June 1986, 71%.
Partly as a result of these changes and of a Central Bank (BCRA) regulation to
register the foreign currency arrears in local currency, BANADE's accounting
foreign exchange position is uncovered in a relatively small amount of US$138
million equivalent. However, this situation is compensated by higher
corresponding local currency interest rates. Domestic resource mobilization
declined sharply from one-third of total assets to 4.5% during the period (para.
11). Within this context, BCRA participation in BANADE's liabilities increased
from 2% to 12% of total assets. This change mainly represented a substantial
increase of US$400 million over the December 1985 balance of US$227 million,
resulting from refinancing of foreign currency loans. BANADE's equity also
changed during the period. It fell sharply from 15.4% of assets in December
1980 to 3.0% in December 1983 (para. 10). However, from that date on, it has
grown gradually, complying with conditions of Loan 2063-AR.
8.       Portfolio aualitX.   BANADE's overall portfolio exposure/quality is
relatively acceptable; SMI portfolio quality is good. At the end of June 1986,
large firms accounted for 76% of total outstanding loans net of accruals of
interest and inflation adjustments (net portfolio), based upon BANADE's
information. Loans to the 50 largest enterprises amounted to US$1.8 billion
equivalent (60% of the net portfolio). As of June 1986, total arrears over ten
days amounted to US$626 million (about 16% of total loan portfolio and 20% of
net portfolio), of which 91% corresponded to the 50 largest borrowers. (These
arrears are mainly the result of factors outside BANADE's control, e.g., policy
of previous Governments to establish/finance state-owned enterprises through
BANADE, the overall economic difficult situation, and the enterprises' foreign
debt). Excluding the portfolio guaranteed by the Government (which has
guaranteed about US$1.5 billion equivalent and, according to BANADE, has been



-36-
meeting its corresponding obligations ), the arrears were concentrated upon
loans of 29 firms included in the top 50, representing only about 8.2% of the
net portfolio. Arrears of those 29 firms amounted to about US$250 million
equivalent (about 40% of their corresponding portfolio), applying
proportionately to their arrears the corresponding amount of BCRA's exchange
risk insurance covering such portfolio. Since the other large firms are
guaranteed by the Government, these firms constitute the principal financial
problem of BANADE derived from its portfolio. Overall, however, because of
BANADE's responsibility as a development bank and the potential impact upon
Government finances that problems in the guaranteed portfolio might produce, it
has to manage such portfolio regardless of the existence of the above-mentioned
Government guarantee. This situation poses an operational and financial burden
upon BANADE and represents a difficult ard time-consuming institutional and
managerial activity. A senior group has been assigned to deal with these firms
and the other 29 firms without the Government's guarantee included in the
largest 50. The remaining US$56 million in arrears was distributed among other
medium-to-large borrowers and SMIs. On the average, this portion of the arrears
represents only 4.4% of the net corresponding portfolio, which, in part,
reflects BANADE's renewed efforts upon portfolio administration. Overall,
despite the difficult economic situation, arrears have been maintained at the
same level during the last two years, and within acceptable levels compared to
other similar financial institutions in Latin America. To increase its portfolio
quality and cash-flow, BANADE has initiated the preparation of an indicative
portfolio recovery plan, focussing upon the 50 largest enterprises, including
information, among other things, upon their financial condition and repayment
capacity, possible actions to be carried out (restructuring, sale,
administrative collection, legal action, other), estimated portfolio recovery
level, and estimated additional financial and TA needs of the firms, as
appropriate.
9.       As of June 30, 1986, BANADE's provisioning policies and the level of
provisions were relatively satisfactory, although financial provisions fell from
10% of total portfolio in December 1980 to 4.4% in June 1986. However, the
potential impact of total default by debtors who are showing difficulties,
without preferencial guarantees (arrears, plus non-performing portfolio, less
provisions), is just covered 1.2 times by equity. This situation provides
BANADE with relatively limited room for the absorption of eventual losses caused
by the failure of a few of the 29 large firms showing arrears. In this context,
BANADE should review its portfolio provision policy, analyzing --among other
things-- the market value of the above-mentioned enterprises' guarantees, and
determining an adequate level of provisions, as appropriate (paras. 8 and 10).
10.       Eguity. BANADE's equity started improving in 1984.  While equity
declined steadily from 1980 to December 1983, when it reached a low US$149.5
million (mainly as a result of provisions for about US$200 million), it grew
gradually to US$261.9 million in June 1986 despite additional portfolio
provisioning during the last two years (Annex 7, Table 3). BANADE's overall
equity to asset ratio was about 5% in June 1986 (4.3% in December 1985), down
from 15.4% in December 1980. However, this situation changes when excluding the
portfolio guaranteed by the Government and the corresponding portfolio decrease
resulting from the BCRA foreign exchange insurance, to an equity-to-assets ratio
of about 9% , as of June 1986. BANADE, in addition, has been complying with the
debt,/equity targets set by the Bank under the Second Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2063-AR). As of June 1986, the ratios of consolidated long-term unsecured
debt-, consolidated unsecured debt-, and consolidated long-term



-37-
debt-to-consolidated capital and surplus, were 6:1, 9:1, and 17:1 respectively,
far below the required 10:1, 15:1, and 26:1. In this regard and to contribute to
BANADE's further financial strengthening, the required maximum debt/equity
ratios by loan 2063-AR should be reduced to 8:1, 12:1 and 20:1 respectively,
from year-end 1987 and onwards. Such ratios should encourage further BANADE
capitalization to facilitate a stable future financial growth of the
institution, mainly taking into account the difficulties of mobilizing local
resources (para. 11) and the need to develop its operations independently from
the Government's budgetary or monetary constraints.
11.      Resource mobilization.  At the same time that the relative importance of
domestic deposits has decreased (para. 7), BANADE has increased its dependency
upon BCRA and foreign sources. Such a decline of deposits is in line with the
demonetization suffered by the economy during the period 1980-1986. In addition,
a rationale offered by BANADE's management was that the institution cannot
profitably handle very short term deposits (seven days average) in the current
distorted high cost market, and that such type of maturities is inappropriate
for development purposes. However, since dependency upon BCRA or foreign funds
may become increasingly difficult, BANADE's future growth potential would depend
upon its ability to mobilize medium-term resources in the local markets and upon
internal generation (para. 14). Although the present economic conditions are
not favorable to promote such mobilization aggressively in the short run, BANADE
is focussing upon deposits over 30 days, and has started to discuss possible
policies and mechanisms to mobilize medium-term resources (e.g., six-months to
one-year indexed deposits). BCRA has stated that matters of this type would be
addressed as a second stage of the financial sector reform (SAR, para. 2.11). In
the meantime, BANADE should prepare a pilot resource mobilization program,
setting realistic targets and designing mechanisms to reach those targets over a
medium term horizon.
12.      ORerating results.  The overall performance of BANADE began improving in
1984, after a 1981-1983 period of negative results (Annex 7, Table 3). Net
profits amounted to US$90.8 million equivalent in 1980 (2% of assets). They were
negative during the following years, but they have been growing since 1984 to
represent 1.6% of total assets, in annual terms, during the first half of 1986,
a level that may be considered normal for banking institutions. In 1985, the
foreign currency loans of BANADE earned an interest margin somewhat higher than
3%, a handsome margin for operations that do not involve resource mobilization
costs. In the case of local currency credit, the interest margin was 62.5%,
well above international standards even for high-inflation countries. However,
those margins were reduced abruptly to -0.84 and 33%, annualized, respectively,
during the first semester of 1986. This result, in the case of local currency
operations, was due primarily to the reduction of the inflation rate. The
negative spread of foreign currency operations, according to BANADE, is a
temporary situation that should change by the next year; it was caused by (a) a
reduction of interest rates; (b) adjustments and corrections of accrued interest
outstanding at the end of 1985 that were overestimated; (c) changes in the
accounting practices of accruing interest, to reduce taxes levied on total
revenues; and (d) the bank's negative foreign exchange position (para. 7). A
further detailed analysis of the drop of this source of revenue based upon the
1986 results, and corresponding recommendations, would be prepared by BANADE. The
overall financial margin, nevertheless, is expected to represent close to 3.8% of
total assets during 1986.



-38-
13.      Despite the drop of interest margins, the financial margin of BANADE is
still satisfactory (9% of total assets in 1985 and 3.8%, in annual terms, during
the first semester of 1986). After provisions for bad debts, the net financial
margin is also adequate, and the operating costs of BANADE (0.6% of total assets
in 1985 and 0.7% in 1986) are well below international standards, reflecting the
modest resource mobilization effort, very low salary scales, still high average
loan size, and low costs per unit of operation. Finally, operating profits (3.8%
of total assets in 1985 and 1.4% annualized in 1986) and profits before taxes
(1% and 1.7%, respectively) show reasonable levels. However, to maintain, at
least, the current profitability, adjustments might be required, as appropriate,
to restore the profitability of foreign currency operations (para. 12).
14.      Flow of funds.  During the difficult 1980s, BANADE managed to show a
positive operating net cash flow every year. Internal generation of funds was
6.3% of total assets in 1980; it fell to 1.6% in 1983 and increased again to 12%
in 1984. In the last two years, it dropped to 3.6% in 1985 and to 1.6%,
annualized, in 1936, mainly as a result of inflation rate reduction and miss-
match between interest earned and received. During the first seven months of
1986, funds from operations contributed only 2% to the total sources of funds.
The balance was covered by other internally generated funds (8%), foreign
sources (13%), local resources (19%) and BCRA (58%). The flow of funds also
shows disbursements by BANADE, for US$542 million in the first seven months of
1986 (about US$340 million in foreign currency for larger firms, including about
US$280 million of foreign debt refinancing arrangements with BCRA), with a total
of about US$700 million expected by year's end. The prospects for 1987 are
about the same to those of 1986. The internal generation of funds , however,
might be changed to help the institution to grow. The greatest potential to
BANADE for increasing internal generation lies within accrued interests from
loans. While it is very difficult to have a perfect matching between interest
earned and received, a reduction of the lending interest period should help
considerably. BANADE should analize this possibility.



Arnnex 6
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDrUM-SCALE tNDUSTRY (SMt) CREDrT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Reporting Requirements
A.   Key Indicators
For monitoring purposes the following apply:
By mid-    By mid-    By mid-    By mid-
1988       1989        1990        1991
1.   Financial input
(a) Loan commitment@*            20%         50%        80%         100%
(b) Amount of subloans
with loan resources
through commercial banks    25%          40%        50%          50%
(c) Number of SMIs financed*    280          560       1,120       1,400
2.   Results of operations:
Jobs created/maintained*  1,800        4,400      8,000       11,500**
3.   Technical assistance (TA):
(a) Number of staff trained*    100          200        250
(b) Institutional              See Activities and corresponding implementation
schedule in Annex 3, Attachment.1
Cc) TA to SMI4"
B.    Reporting Requirements
I.    BANADE/FOPYME would prepare the following minimum information:
1. Socio-economic aspects (annually):
(a) Incremental and maintained (separated) jobs and eost per job
generated (fixed assets)
(b) Indirect employment impact
(c) Total and incremental output
(d) Direct and indirect export generated
(e) Subproject location
(f) Type of subprojects: expansion, new, technological innovation,
retooling, (cumulative and by province); and
(g) Enterprise size by production capacity and sales.
2. Lending aspects (semi-annually):
(a) Number of subprojects/operations financed; total investment; and
credit/contributions from FOPYME/BANADE (witn break-down for Bank,
Central Bank counterpart and own sources), paricipating
institutions, SMIs' and otner sources.
(b) Aumber of subprojects/operations financed and total investment,
classified by investment item (machinery and equipment, construction
and civil works, related and free-standing (separated) permanent
'Cumulative        **j 2,500 jobs to be achieved in the following year.



-40-
Annex 6
(continued)
working capital, etc., indicating alao the origin of goods and
services for investment items); by participating institutions and by
size of dubloan (according to tne project's classification).
(c) Portfolio under FOPYME: total and arrears, with break-down by small
and medium scale firms; age; principal and interesta; repaymenta and
restructurings; aubsectors and province; PBo and BANADE first-tier;
amount corresponding to the previous and current year; indicating also
measures taken or to be taken, as appropriate.
3.   Operatirng aspects (semi-annually):
(a) Subprojects' status and perspectives
(b) Type of TA received and its impact at subproject level, and
(c) Experience upon subloan approvals, procurements and disbursements.
4.   TA (semi-annually):
Follow up upon the TA Program concerning timely implementation of
schedule, quality, preparation and implementation problems, results,
adjustments required, etc.
5.   General:
Comments on project implementation and adjustments recommended, as
appropriate.
6.   operations and status of the Special Account.
Note: Information stated in I and 2 preceding, should be prepared with a
break-down for small and for medium-scale enterprises.
II. BANADE would prepare:
1. Caah flow information (semi-annually), indicating:
(a) Projected and real sources and applications of funds (with break down)
for the previous six months; and
(b) Sources and applications of funds (wuth break down) for the following
six months.
2. Financial indicatirs (semi-annually), projected and real for the previous
six montns and projected for the following six months, including:
interest margin/total credit
local currency
foreign currency
provisions/total credit
net financial margin (financial income, lese financial expenses, less
provisions)/total assdets
operating costs/total assets
net profits/total assets
earning assets/total assets
foreign currency assets/foreign currency liabilities
portfolio (according to Annex 3, para. 16)
debt/equity ratio as required by loan 2063-AR.
*    other, according to SAR, paragraph 3.17
IrI. SSME and INTI would prepare information according to SAR, paragraph 3.17.



-41-
kce  7, Tble 1
STAFF APRAISAL  MR
WL AND EDIUM   A   MME   (SwI) QTEDtr PR
DewS1omit Rnd for gas (SX))
I.                          E8txFstti Portfolio (prindpal)
(In curret US$000)
June    June u           i June 
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
33,800  82,490  127,520  141,970  116,200
II.                              Projected Incm  Statmints
(Ta current US$ 000)
June       Jure       June        June       Jne
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992
Interest              1,014       3,489      6,300      8,084       7,745
Adm. EXpenses           240         252        302        317         333
Operatixg Prcfit        774       3,237      5,998      7,767       7,412
interest Exgperes       929       3,2D9      5,802       7,499      7,361
Profits Before Taxes   (155)         28        196        268          51
zuj1vatie Profits     (155)        (127)        69        337         388
III.                          Projected Souces and Uses of Frids
(In Trrent US$ 000)
Souresieb                                     J          Jbn         June
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992
Profits               (155)         128        1%          268         51
Wvbrld Bark          25,000      37,500     37,600      23,000         -
AWE/BCRA              8,800      13,200     13,2C0       8,000         -
Loan Payments           -         4,470     16,160      28,700     36,470
Total Sources         33,645     55,198     67,156      59,968     36,521
APPlCATtN OF FMD
loene to Banks       33,800      53,610     61,190      43,150     19,237
Repayment to BCRA       -         1,560      5,660      10,045     12,764
Total Applicatiom    33,800      55,170     66,850      53,195     32,001
Anukal Sbrplu          (155)         28        306       6,773      4,520
O.mlati  Surplus      (155)       (127)       179       6,952*     4,520
* To be relent the follwuing year.



-42-
kxm 7a   1
ASSLM :,
I-an disbursetmnt in fozr yers.
FOPYW 's disbirsents:
- 5C% for fixed assets and 5Y1 for related and free stadirg working
capital (FSC).
- Net r rces awilable (portfolio reowry less loan anl BQA pynents)
relent.
Averap subloen terns: 5 years, iixlihdtxg 1 yew of grac for fi a mets aid
related woridrg capital; and 2 years, IncluditW 6 muoth d grace for FWC.
-epayent to BC1A (US$43.2 million cntepart): 35t of portfolio reaowry.
Afiiinistrative costs: norml inwame  f 5X per year aept an imsre   f 201 the
tbird year.
Source: BANAE anid dssion estimtes.
IDF2, March 1987.



Amxc 7, Table 2
SF APPRISAL RU
WALL AND MDlM   SCALE INUSTRY (S4I) Crr PRJ=
National Rvelopw_nM Bank (BANAME): Balance Sheets
(In USSOO0 ecpiiva1e!t)'/
Jime
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985       1986
Asets:
Cah, Bsk Deposits
and Sacuritim                   238.6     192.2     251.2      144.8      89.9       58.0     103.3
Liquid Assets in Fgn.Cy.        296.0      95.3      58.1       40.2      13.8       40.5      51.2
Credits in Local Cy.           2399.6     644.4     430.9      665.5     503.3     500.8      846.8
Credits in Fgn. Cy.            1168.4    2099.3    2732.0    3276.3    3486.5    361607    3413.4
Accried Interest (net)            0.0     782.6     636.9      697.9     754.5     852.6      792.0
Credits Net of Provisions      3568.0    3291.5    3658.6    4423.7    4539.6    4743.7    4850.7
Other Assets                    207.3      74.9      52.7       75.7     122.3      117.9     126.2
Oher Accts. Fgn. Cy.            224.4      52.1      30.7       45.3      43.0       33.4      40.7
Net Total Assets              4534.2    3706.0    45T1.3   4729.7    408    4993.555172.2
Liabilities:
Central Bank                     88.5     188.9     387.7      263.2     126.0      227.2     627.7
Oeposits                       1508.7     704.2     281.6      222.9     202.4      172.9     243.7
Other Local Cy.                 279.0      34.2      160.8     460.8     453.8      382.6     155.8
Fgn Cy. ObLigations            1574.2    2262.4    2852.2    3398.6    3614.6    3756.3    3667.1
Fgn. Cy. Deposits                19.4      58.1      56.4       18.7      41.1        1.4       1.3
other Liabilities               365.3     245.7      141.2     216.0     208.6      238.5     214.8
Total tliabilities             3835.0    3493.5    3879.9    4580.2    4646.3    4778.9    4910.4
Capital & Paserves              591.6     331.2     297.1      419.7     136.5      150.8     190.1
Retained Earnings               107.6   -118.7    -125.6    -270.2        25.9       63.7      71.8
Total Equity                    699.2     212.5      171.4     149.5      162.3     214.5     261.Q
%.t Liabilities and Equity    4534.2    3706.0    4051.3    4729.7    4808.8    4993.5    5172.2
/  Exchange rate of the end of period.
Source: BANADE's Aidic Reports aind Mission Estlmate.
DF2, Deceiter 1986



-44-
Arnnx 7, TIable 3
AR4
SMAT APPAISAL REORT
S4ALL AD MEDIEM SCAE I            (SI)  PMrr PM      R
Natioinal Deve1osmen Bad (BANADE): Tnctme Statements
(In US0  equivalent)L/
1980      1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
Earned nterest:                        697.2     588.5     608.1   1,437.0    1237.4       259.4
other Finanial xncom                    25.1      49.1      101.5     166.5      73.0        6.7
Interest Paid:                         500.2     457.0     452.3      996.0     811.7      163.3
other Financial Exp.                    33.8      37.8       10.0      24.8      66.0       13.7
Financial Services (net)                13.6      13.0       18.4      32.3      28.2        8.4
Interest Margin                        197.0     131.6      155.7     441.0     425.7       96.1
Gross Financial Margin       391.9     202.0      155.9     265.7     615.0     460.9       97.5
Provision for Bad Debts      193.5     183.9      95.7      200.7     387.4     237.4       42.2
eit Financial Margin         198.4      18.0      60.2       64.9     227.6     223.4       55.2
Perso=-el Expenses            72.9      21.2       9.9       11.0      22.6       20.6      12.2
Other Addinistrative          33.7      17.5       6.5       11.5       7.7        9.6       5.9
Depreciation                             1.2       0.9        0.8       1.6       0.9        0.2
Total Expenses               106.6      39.8       17.2      23.3      31.9       31.1      18.4
operational Profit            91.8     -21.8      43.0       41.6     195.7      192.3      36.8
Other Incam (net)             33.5      47.3      50.9       -7.1      24.7        9.1      29.9
Monetary Adjustment                   -209.5    -134.4    -159.8    -202.0    -145.1       -21.6
Profit Before Taxes          125.3    -184.0     -40.5    -125.4       18.5       5f.4      45.4
Taxes                         34.5       0.0       0.0        0.0       8.6        7.3       2.3
N4et 'Profit                  90.8    -184.0     -40.5    -125.4        9.8       49.1      43.1
Net Operating Cash Flow      284.4     210.5      190.4      78.3     597.3      182.8      42.8
IEhag  rate of the end of periot.
Source: BANADE's A4dit Reports and tMssion Estimate.
MDF2, December 1986



-45.-                ANNEX 7, Table 4
SEAFF APPRAISAL REO
L AI mmDtm SrAE  UsY (O) cREDrr PRoECr
Eat1ited Sdaule of Dishw tsl/
(in us$ Km.iOim)
IDD Fiscal Year                                       Disburseits
andi Quarter                                By Ouarter       Qmulative
FY1988
Decuber 31, 1987                               -                -
March 31, 1988                                1.75             1.75
J*u   30, 1988                                2.00             3.75
FY1989
Septatber 30, 1988                            3.75             7.50
lc,ber 31, 1988                               5.00             12.50
March 31, 1990                                6.00             18.50
June 30, 1989                                 6.50            25.nO
PY1990
Septetiber 30, 1989                           6.50            31.50
December 31, 1989                             7.25            38.75
March 31, 1990                                7.50            46.25
June 30, 1990                                 7.50             53.75
FY1991
September 30, 1990                            7.50            61.25
December 31, 1990                             7.50            68.75
March 31, 1991                                7.00             75.75
June 30, 1991                                 6.75            82.50
FY1992
September 30, 1991                            6.50            89.00
December 31, 1991                             6.00            95.(O
March 31, 1992                                5.00            100.00
June 30, 1992                                 3.75            103.75
FY1993
September 30, 1992                            3.75           107.50
Deceuber 31, 1992                             3.75            111.25
March 31, 1993                                3.25            114.50
June 30, 1993                                 3.00            117.50
FY1994
September 30, 1993                            1.88            119.38
December 31, 1993                             1.87            121.25
March 31, 1994                                1.88            123.13
June 30, 1994                                 1.87            125.00
17 8     pon disbursement profiles for IDF operations in Latin America.
Does nt inclide initial disburAelDnt for the Special Arccmt.



-46-
tnner 8
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUN SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) CREDIT PROJECT
Documents Available in ProJect File
Sector
1.  Encuesta Pequeaa y Nediana Empresa, Resultados Finales.  A survey
among SMls. BANADE. September 1986.
2.  Situaci6n y Perspectivas de las Pequeeas Empresas de la Industria
IKanufacturera. Su capacidad de Generaci6n de Empleo. Proyecto Gobierno
Argentino/PNUD/OIT.  Rarch 1984.  An analysis of employment generation by
SMIs.
3. El rol del empresario mediano en el desarrollo Argentino. Un caso
particular: la pequeda y mediana industria.
CIELDA//Ramon Osvaldo Frediani. Buenos Aires, 1985. An analysis of the
SMIs in Argentina.
4.  Las Pequefas y Medianas Empresas y la Inserci6n Externa de los Palses
de America Latina.  BANADE/Manuel Cywin.  1986.  A brief analysis of the
SMIs in Latin America.
5.  Seminario Argentino-Italiano "Desarrollo de la Pequefta y Mediana
Empresa".  December 1985.  Gobierno de C6rdoba.  A seminar upon SMI
development.
5. Reseaa 19a85 de la Industria. Junio 1986. FIEL. Industrial Performance
Indicators during 1985.
7.  Indicadores de Coyuntura.  Septiembre 1986.  FIEL.  Economic
Indicators during 1986.
8.  Inform.e  rimestral sobre la situacion de la industria de Enert a
Junio 1986. BANADE. Report upon industrial situation during the
first six months of 1986.
10. Promoci6n de las Exportaciones Argentinas. A compendium of export
legislation . Secretariat of Industry and Trade.
11. Estructura y Evoluci6n de las Exportaciones Argentinas. (1973-1984).
Gobierno Argentino/PNUD. January 1986. An analysis of exports during
1973-1984.
12. Costos de la Promoci6n de las Exportaciones. Gobierno Argentino/PNUD.
January 1986. An analysis of export costs.



47-                            Annes 8
(continued)
InstitutiOns
1. Borrador de Politicas y Procedisientos del Fondo para la Pequena y
Modiana Industria (OPYON). Draft FOPYME'o Statement of Policies
and Procedures.
2. FOPYME (Banco Mundial). Reglasento de Operaci6n (Borrador). Proyecto de
Credito Industrial para Ia Pequelai y Mediana Industria. FOPYME's draft
Operating Regulations, SKI credit project.
3.  FOPYME/BANADE.  Aspectos do Evaluaci6n y Control de Subproyectos.
Summary guidelines for subproject processing, approval and supervision.
4.  BANADE: Technical assistance program, 1986-1989.  Support information.
5. BANADE: Audit Reports 1981 - June 1986.
6. Letter from the Subsecretary of Induatry and President of INTI, regarding
technical assistance to such institutions. Buenos Aires, October 1986.
7. Plan de Reestructuraci6n del INII.  A reestructuring plan for INT1.
Mid-1986.
Other
1. CfME: Cursos y Seminarios. 1986. CIME industrial training courses.
2. INTI/CITSAFE: Programa para el desgrrollo integral de las PYME.  A
technical assistance program for SMIs.
3. Servicios Educativos. IDEA. Argentina, 1986. A program for training
courses to entrepreneurs/enterprises during 1986.



MAP SECTION



_-__ .                                               IBRD 12432R2
B O l I V I A                                                                      OCTOBER 1984
S O U T Fl                  \&     toQQt.tesotAX,  tXPotltot kJ  P_ _I
A M E R I C A                  .Comll  , I.       tt  v          f
,'UT ','                   (              co A           . *A                  P    AGU  
*Conoiau   i                Nsl                                   s     o N         '
AME  3RICA         Z                        I    l            
PARAGUAY t
~/  , jNA\_ 
JArgentino                    '          / -                        .
34 /       > 'sJ A      t    A        R    0Et ATA
t                                                                                      ORMOSA                     BamarAAAp  do A800001 de io.gova.
40^  avvX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.                                                                      13
Etiro          4OOllO! CRINE                       SONE$
40   I  (MA ASCA  /  biJ              C~(ORRIIfN  LS
4mth,       ,                             A' -OPIOAB  R   A                                            Z   L
-      Poto d~~o los Libies
cJ)AN-                     DIA
SANTIAGO   \                                                                   URUGUAY
/   40 *  SANRAFAE  IIO                                      BUENOS AIRES
,I MAI                     i                                *MONTEVIOEO
., S A NT  ALA PLATA
L]A                                                      '   * MAR DEt PLATA
540'                                                                                                                                         4
rh P 1ws tzn > ea4w w   ltt-~L  B 1,ffi
ARGENTINA
_  VAVAI
..m W  .-hPrimary roads
F.It Roy                                         Poved or gravel roads
Earth roads
A N I A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~*                 PrinCiPaI airporis
C R LI                                       0~~~~~~~~.- rovinc'ial boundaries
MInWnotionol boundaries
so.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
?to                                    a,o he$ bid  by                                                             xr,
Io~ lVW oviw,o.  of Div
Id~o. '" Of me. DibDi18,on
&WP ,0bMw O.IFoar                            TIERRA DEI
C"diovi IS~0ivDl                                  FUEG'O                 0          200         400         60080
DOD *0dlVW bvioodaoe shoD
Civ of(i.IW~ do D Vtf. Di Mm
Of PA%ff    10ft WM  0                                                   0         ?oO     200       300       400      59
Div Wwwdoy oreNW
Do o,rn oracqO,ore Of
00(0 0DoDi~
W                           30'                                   40'                                   50'~~~~~~~70



