Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2793 AR
(Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Credit Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2793 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1987, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A and B (1) of the Project will be carried out by Banco Nacional de 
Desarrollo (BANADE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of  such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to BANADE the portion of the  proceeds of the Loan 
required for the execution of such Parts of the Project, as provided in this 
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
BANADE;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set  forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Austral" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Banco Central" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, the 
Borrower's Central Bank;
     (c)  "FOPYME" means the fund for the financing of small- and medium-scale 
industries established by BANADE by the Effective Date, and the term includes  the 
technical and administrative organization, resources, staff and facilities of BANADE 
to be used for the management and operation of such fund;
     (d)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit 
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 9 (b) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement;
     (e)  "Index" means the percentage rate of variations of the combined wholesale 
and consumer prices in the Argentine Republic during any given  month, as calculated 
and published by Banco Central during the first 15 days of each month;
     (f)  "Industrial Enterprise" means a Small or Medium Enterprise to which a 
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "INTI" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial, the  Borrower's 
National Institute of Industrial Technology;
     (h)  "Investment Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan for a Sub-project under Part A (1) of 
the Project;
     (i)  "Medium Enterprise" means any industrial enterprise with fixed assets of 
more than the equivalent of $350,000, but not exceeding the equivalent of   
$3,000,000, excluding land and buildings;
     (j)  "Operating Regulations" means the policies, rules and operating procedures 
for FOPYME, approved by BANADE's board of directors by the Effective Date;
     (k)  "Participating Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into by  BANADE 
and each Participating Bank other than BANADE, pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project 
Agreement, as each such agreement may be amended from time to time;
     (l)  "Participating Bank" means BANADE, when making Sub-loans directly to  
Industrial Enterprises, and any credit institution which: (i) has  been  approved by 
BANADE to participate in the execution of Part A of the Project on the basis of a 
creditworthiness analysis carried out pursuant to methods and
criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) has entered or proposes to enter into a 
Participating Agreement with BANADE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
     (m)  "Participating Loan" means the loan made or proposed to be made by BANADE to 
a Participating Bank, partly financed out of the proceeds of the   Loan, provided 
under a Participating Agreement;
     (n)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and BANADE of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such  term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (o)  "Small Enterprise" means any industrial enterprise with fixed assets not 
exceeding the equivalent of $350,000, excluding land and buildings;
     (p)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
Page  3
     (q)  "SSME" means Sub-Secretaria de Pequena y Mediana Empresa, the Subsecretariat 
for Small and Medium Enterprises of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of the 
Borrower;
     (r)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank 
to an Industrial Enterprise for a Sub-project pursuant to the provisions of the 
Project Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of a Participating Loan;
     (s)  "Sub-project" means a specific project carried out or to be carried out by 
an Industrial Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (t)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to BANADE under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement;
     (u)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into  between 
the Borrower, Banco Central and BANADE pursuant to Section 3.02 of  this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
     (v)  "Technical Assistance Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan for a Sub-project under 
Part A (3) of the Project; and
     (w)  "Working Capital Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan for a Sub-project under Part A 
(2) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred and twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by BANADE on account of withdrawals 
made by an Industrial Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and (ii)  for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Banco Central a special account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special  Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  4
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year. 
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
Part B (2) (ii) of the Project through SSME and cause INTI to carry out Part B (2) (i) 
of the  Project, all with due diligence and  efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Parts of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BANADE to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of  BANADE therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BANADE to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall transfer to INTI, as grant, for purposes of Part B (2) 
(i) of the Project, the amount allocated from time to time to Category  2  (b) in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under  contractual arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any 
provision of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories 1 and 2 (a) in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to BANADE, through Banco Central,  under a subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower,  Banco Central and BANADE, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall 
include, inter alia, the following:
        (i)  the transfer of such proceeds to Banco Central under the same
             terms and conditions as those applicable to the Loan pursuant to
             the provisions of this Agreement;
       (ii)  the relending of such proceeds by Banco Central to BANADE under
             the following terms and conditions: (A) the subsidiary loan shall
             be made and be repayable in Australes, adjusted for inflation on
             the basis of the Index; and (B) interest on the outstanding
             principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan as adjusted for inflation,
             shall be set at an initial rate of 7% per annum in respect of the
             portion of such subsidiary loan which will be used by BANADE for
             the purposes of Parts A (1) (ii) and (2) and B (1) of the Project,
             and an initial rate of 4% per annum in respect of the portion of
             such subsidiary loan which will be used by BANADE for the purposes
             of Part A (1) (i) and (3) of the Project, such rates to be 
             reviewed semiannually as part of the review of the interest rates
             applicable to Sub-loans pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project
             Agreement, and if necessary in the opinion of the Bank, revised
             in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and shall cause Banco Central to 
exercise its rights, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and Banco Central shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  5
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 6 of this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General  Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and  schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
(1) of the Project shall be carried out by BANADE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of SSME and  INTI in respect of 
Part B (2) of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
               this Section, including the Special Account, for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than six months after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures for Part B (2) of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after
               the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BANADE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan  
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  6
that BANADE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BANADE or for the suspension of its 
operations.
     (d)  The Operating Regulations shall have been amended, suspended,  abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of BANADE or its ability to carry out  Parts A or B (1) of the 
Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (e)  FOPYME shall have been suspended, liquidated or otherwise discontinued.
     (f)  BANADE shall have failed to revise interest rates applicable to Sub-loans 
and Participating Loans if required under Section 2.08 of the  Project Agreement, and 
such failure shall continue for a period of 60 days as  from the date on which the 
corresponding revision is due.
     (g)  The Borrower and Banco Central shall have failed to revise the interest rate 
applicable to the Subsidiary Loan, if required under Section 3.02  (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement and such failure shall have continued for a period  of 60 days as from the 
date on which the corresponding revision is due.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
Banco Central and BANADE;
     (b)  BANADE's board of directors has established FOPYME, and approved its  
Operating Regulations on terms acceptable to the Bank;
     (c)  FOPYME has approved Sub-project appraisal and supervision guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank;
     (d)  BANADE has entered into Participating Agreements with at least four 
Participating Banks, such Participating Banks to be authorized to make Sub-loans in an 
amount equivalent to at least 25% of the Loan; and
     (e)  BANADE has:
          (i)  revised in a manner satisfactory to the Bank its policies on,
               and the level of provisions for, bad debts;
         (ii)  prepared a pilot plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for improving
               its resource mobilization; and
        (iii)  revised, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the level of
               financial spreads on its foreign currency lending operations.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BANADE, 
and is legally binding upon BANADE in accordance with its terms;
Page  7
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower, Banco Central and BANADE and is legally binding upon the parties thereto 
in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that any action required on behalf of the Borrower in order to  permit the 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement has been 
taken.
     Section 6.03. The date March 22, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
                                           Telex:
                                           121952-AR
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                    THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ Jorge Sakamoto
Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                  123,100,000       60% of expendi-
                                                 tures for each
                                                 Sub-project
                                                 financed under
                                                 Sub-loans ap-
                                                 proved or
                                                 authorized by the
                                                 Bank, pursuant to
                                                 paragraph 10
                                                 of the Schedule
                                                 to the Project
                                                 Agreement, before
                                                 the date on which
                                                 the aggregate
                                                 amount of the
                                                 portion of the
                                                 Sub-loans so
                                                 approved or
                                                 authorized,
                                                 financed out of
                                                 the proceeds of
                                                 the Loan, shall
                                                 have reached the
                                                 equivalent of
                                                 $62,500,000; and
                                                 40% of expendi-
                                                 tures for each
                                                 Sub-project
                                                 financed under
                                                 Sub-loans ap-
                                                 proved or autho-
                                                 rized thereafter;
                                                 all not to exceed
                                                 the amount
                                                 disbursed by
                                                 BANADE for
                                                 each such Sub-
                                                 loan
(2)  Technical
     Assistance,
     including
     training and
     equipment for:
     (a)  Part B (1)             1,100,000 )
          of the                           )
          Project                          )
                                           )
     (b)  Part B (2) (i)           400,000 )     100%
          of the Project                   )
                                           )
     (c)  Part B (2) (ii)          400,000 )
          of the Project                   )
          TOTAL                125,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  9
made:
     (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of a Working Capital Sub-loan if the portion of such Sub-loan 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, when added to all disbursements made from 
the Loan Account for Working Capital Sub-loans exceeds the equivalent of $30,775,000; 
and
     (c)  in respect of Category 2 (b), unless the Bank shall have received evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) that the Borrower has entered into the  contractual 
arrangements with INTI referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this  Agreement; and (ii) 
that INTI's board of directors has approved plans of activities satisfactory to the 
Bank for its center for research of methods and techniques for Small- and Medium-Scale 
Enterprise and its Management Advisory
Program.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to encourage modernization and  increases 
in production and productivity of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises; (ii) to foster 
employment and help the development of Small- and  Medium-Scale Enterprises outside 
the major urban areas; and (iii) to establish a second-tier term lending mechanism to 
finance Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
     (1)  (i) Financing fixed assets; and (ii) related permanent working capital 
requirements of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises.
     (2)  Financing of permanent incremental working capital requirements of Small- 
and Medium-Scale Enterprises.
     (3)  Financing of technical assistance to Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises.
Part B:
     (1)  Strengthening BANADE's capabilities to provide financial assistance to 
Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises, including acquisition of equipment, training and 
studies.
     (2) (i)   Strengthening INTI's institutional and technical capabilities  to 
provide technical assistance to Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises,  including 
training, studies and acquisition of equipment; and (ii)  strengthening SSME's 
technical capabilities to provide technical assistance to Small- and Medium-Scale 
Enterprises, including training, studies and provision of equipment.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1990
     through   November 15, 2001                   5,210,000
On   May 15, 2002                                  5,170,000
Page  10
_______________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.O4 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years                                   1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been  justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
               in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
               or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
               eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special
               commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
               the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the  Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such  amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth 
at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following  is substituted therefor:
               "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 10 (c) of the
               Schedule to the Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect 
               of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications 
               or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph 10;
               or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the Bank
               may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the
               right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
               to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
               with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
               giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall
               be cancelled."
SCHEDULE 6
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in the Argentine Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
1.   Goods for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods and services for Sub-projects under Part A of the Project shall be  
obtained at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other factors such  as 
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and vailability of 
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of services, of their 
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, provided, however, that in 
the case of contracts estimated to cost more than  the equivalent of $300,000, such 
contracts shall be awarded on the basis of comparison of quotations solicited from a 
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and provided, further, that in the case of 
equipment, at least one  supplier shall be from a country other than the Borrower.
Part D:
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the  Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
Page  13
be furnished to the Bank prior to the  making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to  the Bank as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist in the execution of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the  Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
