Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 2793 AR 
(Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Dated December 21, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2793 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO (BANADE).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make  available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-five million 
dollars ($125,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that BANADE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
Banco Central and BANADE, the proceeds of the loan provided for  under the Loan 
Agreement for Parts A and B (1) of the Project will be made available to BANADE on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS BANADE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General  Conditions (as so 
Page  2
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) BANADE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project through FOPYME, and Part B (1) of the Project through FOPYME and 
its other departments or units, as appropriate, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative,
technical and financial practices, and in accordance with the Operating Regulations, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 6 to the Loan 
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. BANADE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to  insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Parts A and B (1) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. BANADE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BANADE shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) BANADE shall enter into Participating Agreements with 
Participating Banks for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in  the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
     (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BANADE shall not take or  concur 
in taking any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, 
waiving or failing to enforce any provision of any Participating Agreement.
     (c)  BANADE shall utilize the proceeds accrued to BANADE from the repayment of 
principal of Participating Loans and Sub-loans which are not required for purposes of 
the repayment of principal of the Subsidiary Loan, exclusively for making loans for 
the same purposes, and under similar terms  and conditions as those set forth in this 
Agreement.
     Section 2.06. (a) BANADE undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the  terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement, and the 
Operating Regulations.
     (b)  BANADE shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and  BANADE; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii)  achieve the purposes of 
the Project.
     Section 2.07. (a) BANADE shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of  its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BANADE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by BANADE of its  obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.08. BANADE shall: (i) review at least every June 30 and December 31 of 
each year the appropriateness of the interest rates on Participating  Loans and 
Sub-loans provided for in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Schedule to this  Agreement; (ii) 
exchange views with the Bank on the results of such review; and (iii) revise such 
interest rates as required to ensure that such interest rates: (A) are higher than 
prevailing average rate on deposits, if such deposit rate proves to be, in the opinion 
Page  3
of the Bank, conducive to resource mobilization and does not result from significant 
market distortions; or (B) otherwise, cover BANADE's and the Participating Bank's cost 
of funds, such  cost to be calculated in accordance with methods and under assumptions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BANADE
     Section 3.01. BANADE shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent  staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) BANADE shall maintain procedures and separate records and 
accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts A and B (1) of the 
Project, of each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from 
it) and the operations carried out under FOPYME, and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of BANADE.
     (b)  BANADE shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
               sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
               statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
               later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
               certified copies of said financial statements for such year as
               so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said
               records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures for Parts A and B (1) of the Project with respect to 
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, BANADE shall:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
                audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
                that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
                said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank and BANADE shall otherwise agree: (i) BANADE 
shall maintain at all times a ratio of consolidated long-term unsecured  debt of 
BANADE and all its subsidiaries to the consolidated capital and surplus of BANADE and 
all its subsidiaries of not more than 8 to 1 at the end of 1987
and during each year thereafter; (ii) BANADE shall maintain at all times a ratio of 
consolidated unsecured debt of BANADE and all its subsidiaries to the consolidated 
Page  4
capital and surplus of BANADE and all its subsidiaries of not more than 12 to 1 at the 
end of 1987 and during each year thereafter; and (iii) BANADE shall maintain at all 
times a ratio of consolidated long-term debt of BANADE and all its subsidiaries to the 
consolidated capital and surplus of BANADE and all its subsidiaries not  more than 20 
to 1 at the end of 1987 and during each year thereafter.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "debt" means any outstanding debt incurred by BANADE or any
               subsidiary;
         (ii)  "long-term debt" means any debt incurred by BANADE or any
               subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
               it is originally incurred;
        (iii)  "unsecured debt" means debt, as so defined, excluding from such 
               debt an amount equal to the outstanding principal of loans
               made to or guaranteed by BANADE which repayment has been
               guaranteed or otherwise secured by the Borrower;
         (iv)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred in respect of BANADE or any
               of its subsidiaries: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on
               the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
               and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and
               (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
               providing for such guarantee has been entered into;
          (v)  whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
               to value in terms of Australes debt payable in foreign currency,
               such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
               exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
               such valuation, obtainable by BANADE for the purposes of
               servicing such debt;
         (vi)  "subsidiary" means a company, if any, of which a majority of the
               outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
               or effectively controlled by BANADE and which, in the opinion of
               the Bank, is engaged in promotional, financial or technical
               activities similar or complementary to the operations of BANADE;
        (vii)  "consolidated debt of BANADE and all its subsidiaries" means
               the total amount of debt of BANADE and its subsidiaries,
               excluding any debt owed by BANADE to any of its subsidiaries or
               by any of its subsidiaries to BANADE or to any other subsidiary;
               and
       (viii)  "consolidated capital and surplus of BANADE and all its
               subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
               capital, retained earnings and reserves of BANADE and its
               subsidiaries not allocated to cover specific liabilities after
               excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent: (i) equity
               interests of BANADE in any subsidiary, or of any subsidiary in
               BANADE or in any other subisidiary; or (ii) adequate provisions,
               determined in accordance with sound practices, for probable 
               losses on the outstanding amount of all loans and investments 
               made, or guarantees given, by BANADE.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of BANADE 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify BANADE thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or  at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BANADE:
          Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
          25 de Mayo 145
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BANADE                          9179/9180/17123
               Baires
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BANADE may be 
taken or executed by the President of the Board of Directors of BANADE or such other 
person or persons as the President of the Board of Directors of BANADE shall designate 
in writing, and BANADE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Page  6
                    By /s/ Jorge Sakamoto
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions
of, Sub-loans and Participating Loans
1.   Sub-loans shall be made in Australes and principal repayments thereunder shall be 
adjusted for inflation on the basis of the variation of the Index.
2.   Sub-loans shall be repayable within a period of ten years, including a grace 
period of up to three years, provided, however, that in respect of Working Capital 
Sub-loans the repayment period shall not exceed three years,  including a grace period 
of up to six months, and in respect of a Technical Assistance Sub-loan the repayment 
period shall not exceed five years, including a grace period of up to one year.
3.   Unless BANADE and the Bank shall otherwise agree pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, interest on the principal amount of Sub-loans 
indexed for inflation pursuant to paragraph 1 above, other than Working Capital 
Sub-loans and the portion of each Investment Sub-loan   made for Part A (1) (ii) of 
the Project, shall be set at 8% per annum. Interest on the principal amount of Working 
Capital Sub-loans and the portion of each Investment Sub-loan made for Part A (1) (ii) 
of the Project, shall be set at 12% per annum.
4.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, as a result of the review provided for in 
Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, the interest rate spread   between 
Participating Loans and the corresponding Sub-loans shall be of 3.75 percentage 
points.
5.   Participating Banks shall pay to BANADE a commitment charge not exceeding  1% per 
annum on the principal amount of each Participating Loan not withdrawn   from time to 
time. The Participating Banks may charge such a commitment charge on Sub-loans.
6.   When making a Sub-loan, the following limits shall be observed by the 
Participating Bank:
     (a)  Each Sub-loan shall not exceed:
          (i)  the equivalent of 80% of the estimated cost of the Sub-project
               for which the Sub-loan is proposed to be made, except for
               Investment Sub-loans proposed to be made for a Sub-project
               consisting of the establishment of an Industrial Enterprise,
               which shall not exceed 60% of the estimated cost of the
               corresponding Sub-project; and
         (ii)  an amount financed out of the proceeds of the Loan equivalent
               to $2,000,000 in respect of an Investment Sub-loan, $1,000,000
               in respect of a Working Capital Sub-loan, and $200,000 in
               respect of a Technical Assistance Sub-loan;
     (b)  a Sub-loan shall not exceed an amount financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan equivalent to $2,000,000 when added to the principal outstanding amount of all 
Sub-loans made to the same Industrial Enterprise or any   subsidiary of such 
Industrial Enterprise; for the purpose of this sub-paragraph, the term "subsidiary" 
means any company of which a majority of  the outstanding voting stock or proprietary 
interest is owned or effectively controlled by an Industrial Enterprise; and
     (c)  the portion of an Investment Sub-loan for the financing of related permanent 
working capital shall not exceed 50% of the amount of such Sub-loan.
7.   Each Sub-project financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan in an amount financed 
out of the proceeds of a Participating Loan equivalent to $100,000 or  more shall have 
an after-tax financial rate of return of at least 12% per annum, calculated in 
accordance with methods and under assumptions satisfactory to the Bank.
8.   Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, Participating Loans shall be made 
on the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the corresponding Sub-loans.
Page  7
9.   No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days  prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 10 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to  the date on which the Bank 
shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 10 (b) of 
this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan,  other  than a Technical 
Assistance Sub-loan, for a Sub-project in  an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the loan which  shall not  exceed the sum of $500,000 equivalent, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan provided for in any outstanding loan 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, or between the Bank and BANADE, entered 
into before the  date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being 
used for financing goods and services directly and materially related to such 
Sub-project.
10.  (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, BANADE shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form  satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Industrial Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the  Sub-project, including a description of  the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions 
of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) 
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain  (i)  a summary 
description of the Industrial Enterprise and the  Sub-project,  including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 
1990.
11.  Each Participating Agreement shall include provisions enabling BANADE to carry 
out its obligations under this Agreement, and obliging the Participating  Bank which 
is a party to the Participating Agreement to obtain, when making a Sub-loan, by 
written contract with the Industrial Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank,  the Borrower, BANADE and the 
Participating Bank, including the right to:
     (a)  require the Industrial Enterprise to carry out and operate the Sub-project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound   technical, financial 
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to the 
Loan Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in carrying 
out the Sub-project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction  included 
in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the Industrial Enterprise shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Industrial  Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank or BANADE shall reasonably request 
Page  8
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and  financial 
condition of the Industrial Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right of the Industrial Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Industrial Enterprise to  perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Participating Bank.
