Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11582-HIU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIbNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 19, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         11582 HU
Type: SAP
Energy and Environment Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distibution an may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993
US$1.00 - Ft      47.0      50.4      60.8      63.9     74.7      79.5      93.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilowatthour (kWh)           -      1,000 watt hour
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)          -      1,000 kilowatt-hours (103 kWh)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)          -      1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (106 kWh)
1 Terawatt-hour (TWh)          -      . billion kilowatt-hours (109 kWh)
1 Megawatt (MW)                -      1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                -      1,000,000 kilowatts (106 kW)
1 Terawatt (TW)                -      1 billion kilowatts (109 kW)
1 Gigajoule (GJ)               -      lo' joules
1 Terajoule (TJ)               -      1012 joules
1 Petajoule (PJ)               -      1015 joules
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)        -      103 kilovolt-Amperes (103 kVA)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)           -      3,968 British Thermal Units (Iii'tJ)
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe) -       10,200,000 kilocalories = 42.7
gigajoules (GJ)
1 kilogram (kg)                -      2.2 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric ton)             -      1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
1 meter (m)                    -      3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               -      1,000 m = 3,281 ft
1 square kilometer (km2)       -      0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)           -      0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 Joule (J)                    -      1 watt-second = 2.39 x 10-4 kcal
NET HEAT VALUES OF FUELS
Hard Coal          1 kg  -   3,370 kilocalories
Brown Coal         1 kg  -   2,650 kilocalories
Lignite            1 kg  -   1,530 kilocalories
Crude Oil          1 kg  -  10,200 kilocalories
Heavy Fuel Oil    1 kg  -   9,220 kilocalories
Natural Gas        1 m3  -   7,030 kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEEF                State Authority for Energy Management and Safety
BEAD                Co-generation Section at Dunament   Rt
OC                  Degree Centigrade
CHP                 Combined Heat and Power
CIS                 Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA                Council of Mutual Economic Assistance



CO                  Carbon Monoxide                     FOR OFCAL US ONLY
CO2                 Carbon Dioxide
COD                 Chemical Oxygen Demand
dB                 Decibels
DEDASz              Southern Power Generating Co.
EA                  Environmental Assessment
EC                  European Community
EDASz              Northern Power Generating Co.
RIB                 European Investment Bank
EMP                 Environmental Master Plan
EMS                 Energy Management System
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GNP                 Gross National Product
IEA                International Energy Agency
LPG                 Liquid Petroleum Gas
MIT                 Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOL Rt              Hungarian Oil and Gas Corporation (previously OKGT)
MVMT                Magyar Villamos Muvek Troszt
MVM Rt              Hungarian Power Companies Ltd (previously MVMT)
MWe                 Megawatt (electric)
MWt                 Megawatt (thermal)
ng/m3               Nanograms per Cubic Meter
NGL                 Natural Gas Liquid
I9DC                National Dispatch Center
NO                  Nitrogen Oxide
NOX                 Nitrogen Oxides
NO2                 Nitrogen Dioxide
02                  Oxygen
OECD                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
0KGT                Predecessor of MOL Rt
pH                  Hydrogen Ion Concentration (logarithmic)
RDC                 Regional Dispatch Center
RTU                 Remote Terminal Unit
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SAMC                State Asset Management Company Ltd.
SCADA               Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
S02                 Sulfur Dioxide
SPA                 State Property Agency
TITASz              Trans-Tisza Power Generating Co.
UCPTBE              Union for Coordination of Production and Transmission
of Electricity - (Western European Power Pool)
WASP                Wien Automatic System Planning
9g            :    Micrograms
Nm3                 Normal Cubic Meter
JAM           :    Micrometer (10-6 meter)
HUNGARY - FISCAL YEAR
JTanuary 1 - December 31
Thlis document has a rstikted dtht ibution and may be used by meipionts only in the porfomanco
of their oflcia duties& Its contents naY not otheewi be dhclosed without World Bkaki authaogtin.



FOR OMFCI USE ONLY
ENOWRG AND ENVIROMMENT PROJECI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOWT
Table of Contents
Pacte No.
LOAN AMD PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................   (i)
I.   INTRODtJCTION   ................................ 
II.  THE  ENERGY  SECTOR ................................ ......... 3
A.   Resources and Status of Development.                         3
B.   Sector Institutions and Management.. 4
C.  Sector Strategy and Issues.                                   5
(i)  The Government's Energy Strategy          ..5
(ii) Environment.                                          6
(iii) Regulatory Matters.. 7
(iv)  Energy Prices ...........................            a
III. THE POWER SUBSECTOR ....................................... 10
A.     - ganization, Operational and Ownership Structure .10
B  Existing Facilities .10
C. Demand Side Management.                                       11
D. Electricity Demand .12
S. Investment Program .12
F.  Bank Activities in the Sector .13
IV.  THB BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY      ..5................... I
A.   MVM Rt ....................................... 15
B.   Dumnamenti Rt .................                             17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Hungary in November/December 1992 and October 1993. The members of the mission
were: T. Markus (Senior Financial Analyst - Task Manager), B. Barats (Principal
Environmental Specialist), R. Benmessaoud (Energy Planner), J. Cai (Economist),
W. Cao (Senior Power Engineer), R. Hamilton (Senior Energy Economist), K. Kies
(operations Officer). J. Wilberg (Senior Financial Analyst) contributed to the
report. The peer reviewer was R. Bates (Principal Economist). The report was
issued by the Energy and Environment Division (B. Montfort, Division Chief) of
the Central Europe Country Department (K. Derviq, Director).



HUNYR
ENEmRY AND /RONYMDlfPROJECT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
V.       THE  PROJECT                                                     .8......... i
A.    Project Objectives ........................................... 18
B.    Project Description .......................................... 18
(i)   Dunamenti Combined-Cycle Cogeneration Plant ............ 18
(ii)  Upgrading the Energy Management System ................. 19
(iii) Human Resource Management and Trainlng ................. 19
(iv)  Environmental Management ............................... 21
C.    Project Cost and Financing Plan .............................. 22
D.    Procurement .................................................. 25
E.    Project Preparation .......................................... 27
(i)   Dunamenti Combined-Cycle Cogeneration Plant ............ 27
(ii)  EMS Upgrading .......................................... 27
F.    Project Implementation ....................................... 28
G.    Disbursement ................................................. 31
B.    Monitoring and Reporting ..................................... 31
I.    Environmental Considerations ................................. 31
VI. FINANCIAL ASPBCTS .34
A.    The Accounting and Auditing Framework ........................ 34
B.    Past Financial Performance ................................... 34
C.    Financial Projections ........................................ 35
(i)  MVM Rt ........................................                                                36
(ii)  Dunamenti Rt ........................................   37
VII. ECONOM¢C JUSTIFICATION .39
A.    Relation to Policy Objectives ................................ 39
B.    Economic Evaluation ......................................... 39
C.    Least-Cost Power Generation Investment ....................... 39
D.    Rate of Return .........................................                                                  40
S.   Risks .........................................                                                          41
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RCOOMMTND.TION.                                                                            42



IN= AND 1MRON
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Annex 1.1         List of Materials in the Project Files
Annex 2.1         Evolution of Primary Energy Supply
Annex 2.2         Summary of Historical Energy Balances
Annax 2.3         Energy Balance 1991
Annex 2.4         Energy Demand and Supply in 1991 and 2000
Annex 2.5         Average Price and Cost Comparison for Electricity and Natural
Gas, August 1992
Annex 3.1         Power Sector - Organization and Ownership
Annex 3.2         Balance of Electricity Capacity and Demand, Interconnected
System
Annex 3.3         Main Power Stations - MVM Rt
Annex 3.4         Fuel Supply
Annex 3.5   :    Electricity Tariff (as of January 1994)
Annex 3.6   :    Past and Projected Electricity Consumption
Annex 3.7         Least-Cost Power Generation Investment Program, Forecast
Capacity Balance
Annex 4.1   :     MVM Rt Organizational Chart
Annex 4.2   :    Dunamenti Rt Organizational Chart
Annex 5.1   :    Description of the Dunamenti Combined Cycle-Cogeneration Plant
Annex 5.2         Description of Energy Management System Upgrading
Annex 5.3         Management Training - Conceptual Terms of Reference
Annex 5.4   :    Human Resource  Training  Program  - Conceptual Terms of
Reference
Annex 5.5   :    Bnvironmental Training Program
Annex 5.6         Monitoring Program
Annex 5.7   :    MVM Rt Environmental Master Plan  (EMP) - Draft Terms of
Reference
Annex 5.8   :    Project Cost Estimates
Annex 5.9         Procurement Schedule for Equipment
Annex 5.10  :    Terms of Reference for Consulting Services for Dunamenti
Combined-Cycle Cogeneration Plant
Annex S.11  :    Dunamenti   Combined-Cycle   Cogeneration   Plant   -   Key
Implementation Dates
Annex 5.12  :    Energy Management System Upgrading - Key Implementation Dates



HUNGARY
BdQY AND WNImONMWa Pro-
STAFF APPRAJSAL EPORT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANXS (cont'd)
Annex 5.13        Project Organization Chart
Annex 5.14        Dunamenti Combined Cycle Cogeneration Plant - Implementation
Schedule
Annex 5.15        Energy Management System - Implementation Schedule
Annex 5.16  :    Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5.17  :    Supervision Plan
Annex 5.18        Summary of the Environmental Assessment - Proposed Combined
Cycle, Cogenerating Plant - Dunamenti Power Station
Annex 6.1   :    Historical Financial Statements
- MVMT Income Statements, 1988-1992
- MVMT Balance Sheets, 1988-1992
- Dunamenti Income Statements, 1989-1992
- Dunamenti Balance Sheets, 1989-1992
Annex 6.2         Notes and Assumptions for Financial Projections
Annex 6.3         MYM Rt - Projected Financial Statements, 1993-2000
- MVM Rt Projected Income Statements
- ?VM Rt Projected Balance Sheets
- MVM Rt Projected Fund Flow Statements
Annex 6.4         Dunamenti Rt - Projected Financial Statements, 1993-2000
- Dunamenti Rt Projected Income Statements
- Dunamenti Rt Projected Balance Sheets
- Dunamenti Rt Projected Fund Flow Statements
Annex 7.1         Rate of Return on Dunamenti Combined-Cycle Component
W:  IBRD No:    24502R



MUNBAIt
EIN Y AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Loan and Prol Sunurmy
Bgzxorrw                RHungarian Power Companies Ltd. (WIJN Rt)
9WT&Uarant              Republic of Hungary
Loan ALmout:            US$100 million equivalent
Terms.                  15 years maturity, including 5 years of grace at the
Bank'a standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Objectives:     The Project would support Hungary's reform program by
mitigating the country's dependence on energy imports
from a single source; by increasing efficiency,
reliability and flexibility in the production of
electricity and heat; and by establishing the necessary
basis for strong interconnections with the western
European Power Pool.  In addition, the Project would
support continued environmental improvements in the
power sector, and assist in improving institutional
capabilities.
Protect Descrlption:    The Project would consist of the following components:
Ui) construction of a gas-fired combined cycle
co-generation unit of 235 MWe and 240 MWt at the
Dunamenti Power Plant site about 30 km southwest of
Budapest; (ii) upgrade of MVM Rt's existing Energy
Management System (ENS); (iii) assistance to: (a)
develop an Environmental Master Plan, (b) reinforce the
environmental management and monitoring capabilities of
MVM Rt and (c) install water pollution, ambient air and
noise level monitoring equipment at selected sites; and
(iv) assistance to upgrade the human resource
management, training and institution-building capacity
in the power sector.
Protect Benefits:       The Project would help finance the next investment in
the national least-cost power generation expansion
program. The optimum timing of the Dunamenti component
is 1996 for the combustion turbine alone and 1997 for
the full combined-cycle unit.   The economic rate of
return (ERR) of this component, representing about two-
thirds of the total Project cost, is a satisfactory 16%.
The component would improve energy efficiency and
environmental conditions at one of the most important
Hungarian power stations and would reduce dependence on
electricity imports. Benefits for EMM component would



(ii)
include, fuel savings, reduced reserve requirements and
avoided outages resulting from a better generation
scheduling,  real-time  economic  dispatch,  network
monitoring and system control.    The environmental
component would contribute to improved emission control
in the power sector, develop a least-cost approach to
pollution control and strengthen MVM Rt's institutional
capabilities to address environmental 3.ssues. The human
resource management component would establish a modern
management system, a basic prerrequisite of successful
corporate operation.
Project Rsks:           The major risk  is  related to possible delays  in
obtaining licenses for new investments. This risk is
being minimized by a satisfactory comprehensive
environmental assessment with public involvement, and by
ensuring early licensing from local authorities for the
cogeneration plant.    other risks  such as  reduced
availability of gas supply and reduced demand for
district heating will be mitigated by providing dual-
fired (natural gas and gas oil) combustijn turbine at
the cogeneration station. The new combined-cycle unit
can generate electricity even in periods of low demand
for heat ensuring its appropriate utilization.
Estimated Project Costs:11
DuOementi Combined Cycle Unit  ,860.0  10,140.0  14,000.0  38.6   101.4  140.0
Energy Management System        1,870.0  3,320.0  5,190.0  18.7   33.2   51.9
gnviroarnentat Program            20.0    470.0    490.0   0.2    4.7    4.9
Humn Resource fanagement. Training  30.0    30.0    60.0   0.3    0.3    0.6
BASE COSTS                5780.0  13,960.0  19,740.0  57.8   139.6  197.4
Physical Continaencies            660.0    930.0  1,590.0   6.6    9.3   15.9
Price Contingencies              470.0  1,070.0  1,540.0   4.7   10.7   15.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST        6,910.0  15,960.0  22,870.0  69.1   159.6  228.7
intr_t uring Construction        450.0    930.0   1 ,380.0  4.5    9.3   13.8
1,./   Customs duties and taxes of US$17.9 million equivalent are not included.



(iii)
FinaMiga P-lan:
Project Financig Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
_________________ I   *C  ;O~               r    IOIIN CXS       I  -T -TA -l.- COST...0 .:  
I______IBRD____________,____         0.0                100.0                100.0
NNM Rt                       73.6                68.9                 142.5
,.'... ... ..... . ..............''.,,0 X'.','":i--'.',S ",,
Estimated Disbursements:
-.        ,                           USt~~~~~~~~~ mittllon
_______        _ f  , 5.0           7.9         27.1        35.0        20.0        5.0
I     Cuwmlatfve        5.0          12.9        40.0         75.0       95.0       100.0
Economic Rate of Return             16% on power generating investment.
20verty Cateaorv             :     Not applicable
M2D                          :      IBRD No. 24502R



HUNGARY
ENERGV AND ENVRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOfRT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Hungary is classified as an upper-middle income country with GNP per
capita of $2,900 in 1992 for a population of 10.3 million. The country has been
experimenting with eQC-nomic reforms since 1968, earlier than other socialist
countries, but a mark4d acceleration in the pace occurred after 1985 following
a period of particularly poor economic performance and mounting indebtedness.
By 1989 the following were in place; a tax system built around income and value-
added taxes; a two-tier banking systera; and a company law and legal framework for
bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises. Foreign trade and prices had been
partially liberalized, enterprise management had become increasingly autonomous
from the ministerial bureaucracies, and private entrepreneurs had started
operating on a small scale. However, the effects of the reforms were limited
because of inadequacies in the macroeconomic frameriork. By early 1990 it became
clear that the country's Socialist Government had lost its ability to provide
critical services efficiently and to maintain an acceptable economic framework.
At the same time, the revolution that occurred through all of Central and Eastern
Burope culminated in Hungary in the free parliamentary elections of Spring 1990.
The new coalition Government had a mandate for the transformation to a market
economy, and initiated a comprehensive package of structural reforms to increase
competition, tighten financial discipline and enhance productivity.
1.02    The drastic transformation in Hungary involves both the political and
economic systems.   On the political level wit.- multi-party participation,
democratically-elected national and local authorities emerged. In th.-, economic
field the centrally-planned command economy was abandoned and the movement is
towar.s commercialization and privatization. In the energy sector new policies
have been adopted aiming to reduce the goverment's operational role, give more
autonomy to the enterprises, encourage competition, and attract private capital.
options for separating ownership, policymaking and regulatory functions are being
examined and a framework, amenable to Hungarian conditions, is being developed.
The Government intends to reduce the country's heavy dependence on the CIS for
natural gas, oil and electricity imports, and seeks more rational use of energy
with the help of cost-reflective tariffs.  Concerning the environment, the
Government intends to determine the extent to which restructuring affects
environmental problems, set priorities for investigating these problems, and
develop policy changes which are needed to bring about economically sound and
sustainable environmental improvements.
1.03    The Bank's assistance strategy for Hungary is to support policies and
investments that will encourage market-based growth and social development, in
the context of macroeconomic stability. The emphasis is on optimum resource
allocation and increased efficiency, all in conjunction with the appropriate
targeting and delivery of support systems to the population.  The pi-oposed
Project would assist in this strategy by helping to reinforce the economic supply
of electric pwer and heat with improved environmental control. Also it would
support Hungary's reform program by: helping to mitigate the country's current



dephnd.noe on energy imports: increasing energy efficiency in the production of
electricity and heat; increasing the reliability of power supply; and
establishing the basis for strong interconnections with the UCPTU grid.
1,04    The Project was prepared after a pre-appraisal in May/June 1992 and
after a_praisal miss;.n's visit to Hungary in November/December 1992 and in
October 1993.



- 3 -
II.  THE ERGY $ECTOR
A. Resources and Status of Develonment
2.01    In Hungary the economically recoverable coal reserves amount to about
142 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) compared to production of about 4.6
Mtoe (in 1991). About 70% of the reserves are lignite. All Hungarian coals have
high sulfur and ash contents (2-4% and 20%-30% respectively), and generally the
quality is low. Although conditions for open pit lignite mining are good, brown
coal and black coal are mined underground and with increasingly difficult
geological conditions. The economically recoverable oil reserves are estimated
at 20 million tons, compared to 2.46 million tons production in 1991, and natural
gas reserves were about 54 Mtoe with 3.83 Mtoe annual production. Uranium ore
reserves of about 7 million tons are sufficient to supply the Paks nuclear power
station.    Other energy resources,  comprising hydropower,  low temperature
geothermal water, firewood and agricultural crop residue are quantitatively
insignificant.
2.02    In the past, the energy sector was shaped by centrally planned programs
which did not reflect rational economic decisions. The sector provided vital
input to the industrial sector which was dominated by heavy industry, and
characterized by energy inefficient technology.   The major reason for the
inefficiency was that with the heavily subsidized energy prices there was hardly
any incentive to economize. Energy intens3.ty has been high; for example, in
1990, the total primary energy consumption (about 28 Mtoe) was below the 1980
level and energy intensity fell by 11% from 1978; but energy intensity in 1990
was still some 1.15 kilogram oil equivalent/US$ of GNP compared to 0.18 in
Austria, 0.78 in former Yugoslavia and 0.26 average in OECD, although lower than
Czechoslovakia's 1.62, and Poland's 2.02.   Per capita energy consumption in
Hungary (3.2 toe in 1990) is still below the level of Western Europe.
2.03    Data on primary energy supply and energy balance from 1973 to 1991 are
presented in Annexes 2.1 and 2.2. Coal production declined steadily from 1973
while oil and gas production diminished after 1985. The commissioning of the
Paks nuclear power station in 1984 introduced a new source of energy supply
(treated as domestic production although fuel processing is done abroad). The
share of net imports in total supply increased from 37.9% in 1973 to 48.8% in
1990 b-at fell back to 45.8% in 1991.    In 1991 Hungary depended on imports,
nearly all from the former Soviet Union, for 32* of coal supply, 61% of oil, 56%
of natural gas, and 21% of electricity (Annex 2.3).
2.04    For the next eight years, the Government estimates an average annual
growth of GDP of 3% and a 28% fall of energy intensity. Based on this, energy
consumption in the year 2000 is expected to be at about the same level as in
1991. However, significant shifts are expected to occur in the fuel composition
of energy demand (see Annex 2.4). The share of coal is likely to fall from 22%
in 1991 to 14% in 2000, while the shares of oil and gas increase from 24% to 36%
and 31% to 34% respectively. Coal demand would fall as a result of replacement
of old coal power stations by gas-fired units and due to the substitution of gas
for coal in household use. Falling demand for gas by large energy-intensive
industries affected by restructuring is projected to be more than offset by
increased demand for gas in power generation, households, and new industrial and



- 4 -
commercial uses. The substantial increase shown in oil demand is due to growing
transportation use as well as additional use for power generation and in
industry, commerce and households, to the extent that gas is not available.
Indigenous production of coal, oil and gas is projected to fall by 42%, 21* and
9g respectively between 1991 and 2000. As a result, the share of the net energy
import would increase from 45.8% in 1991 to 60% in 2000.
B. Sector Institutions and Management
2.05    Under the command economy of the past 40 years, a rigid institutional
structure was maintained in the energy sector. Development plans were controlled
by central authorities with the primary objective of meeting pre-established
performance and production targets, and economic criteria were considered only
in the context of the overall plans. As Hungary moves towards a market economy,
the institutional structures in the sector have started to be transformed and
new, commercially-oriented entities are now emerging.
2.06    Presently  the Ministry of  Industry  and Trade  (MIT)  has  overall
responsibility for the sector's activities and for energy policy in the country.
MIT's functions are currently under review and are already changing to reflect
its decl.ining direct role following the recent restructuring of sector
institutions. Other ministries concerned with the sector include the Ministry
of Finance, International Economic Relations (responsible for energy imports and
exports), and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The local governments
bave an increasing role in ensuring public participation in investment
decision-making. The State Property Agency (SPA) is managing the privatization
in all sectors including the energy sector, and it is also a part owner of the
electric distribution companies. The State Asset Management Company Ltd. (SAMC)
is the major shareholder in the energy sector companies as well as in other
State-owned companies where only partial (or no) privatization is expected. The
SAMC, established in October 1992, is directly accountable to a Minister without
portfolio who is responsible, inter alia, for privatization.
2.07    In 1990, the Atomic Energy Commission was reorganized by the Government
and became an independent regulatory body taking over the role previously assumed
by MIT for nuclear power plant safety, and more specifically to oversee the Paks
nuclear plant's operation.   The Commission is responsible for licensing of
nuclear plants, policy, safety, and other related matters and is headed by a
Minister without portfolio, who in consultation with the Government appoints 12
commissioners.
2.08    Until its restructuring in June 1991, OKGT, through 22 affiliated
companies, was responsible for the exploration, development, refining and
marketing of petroleum, supply and distribution of gas, and related manufacturing
and technical development.   Effective July 1991, about one-half of OKGT's
subsidiaries, including the regional gas distribution affiliates, were separated
and restructured as joint stock companies, with the objective to eventually be
privatized. The remaining companies were restructured as the MOL Rt, responsible
for all the upstream oil and gas activities formerly undertaken by OKGT as well
as some downstream activities, including refining.



- 5 -
2.09    The coal companies are controlled by MIT. As the companies have serious
financial problems and filed for bankruptcy, their operations are being managed
by a Coal Mining Restructuring Center. A joint stock company, Mininvest, owned
by the coal companies, arranges contracts with large users, coordinates policy,
undertakes research, and provides advice to the collieries.   Recently three
mines were amalgamated with three power stations. Also a number of restructuring
efforts aimed to restore the financial viability of the industry, were made with
the Bank's assistance.  Between 1990 and 1992 an estimated 40% of the mine
workers left the industry due to phasing out uneconomic operations.
Implementation of future programs is dependent on the development of alternative
employment opportunities and of a social safety net, as phasing out of uneconomic
mines would result in considerable unemployment.   Currently evolving Bank
operations with projects such as the Health Services and Management and Pensions
Administration and Health Insurance would provide substantial support to develop
the needed social safety net and mitigate the problems.
C. Sector Strategy and Issues
(i)    The Government's Energy Strategy
2.10    The government's energy strategy comprises:
(a)   reduction of one-sided energy import dependence;
(b)   improvement of energy efficiency;
(c)  price liberalization allowing them to reflect economic costs;
(d)  adoption of least-cost solutions and flexible energy systems
adaptable to demand;
(e)   assertion of environmental priorities in the energy sector;
(f)  involvement of the public in energy investment decisions;
(g)  development of organizational and control formulae corresponding
to the market economy and controlling monopoly interests; and
(h)  limitation of government intervention to a justified and necessary
level.
The Government has initiated a wide variety of actions to implement this
strategy. The most important of these are discussed in the following paragraphs.
2.11    Among the planned measures to achieve import diversification are actions
(including strengthening MVM Rt' s dispatching facilities, which would be financed
under the proposed Project) to interconnect with the UCPTH, simultaneously with
the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland in about 1997-98. In addition a new gas
pipeline is planned to Austria, providing potential access to supply sources
other than the ex-Soviet Union. Actions are underway to increase crude oil
stocks from the existing 40 days of consumption to 90 days, in line with BC and
IEA norms and MOL Rt is in the process to develop additional oil and gas storage
facilities. In the power subsector a number of gas-fired combustion turbines
will be constructed before 2000, to be operated in a flexible manner, in
combined-cycle and/or cogeneration with district heat capability. These units
can be constructed quickly, are relatively small, can use either gas or gasoil,
and can match the demand through readily varying the production of heat and
electricity. They have low capital costs and high energy efficiency.



6-
(ii)    Environment
2.12    As in the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, environmental
concerns in Hungary have been neglected over the last 40 years. Environmental
laws and regulations, many of them stricter than in Western countries, were
introduced, but rarely enforced. Institutions dealing with environmental matters
were weak.   More than in other Central and Eastern European countries,
environmental problems played an important role in Hungary,s peaceful revolution.
After the profound political changes in 1990, however, environmental problems
became a second priority. Although a number of significant structural changes
in environmental institutions have been carried out, those are still not in a
position to carry out their tasks as envisaged in the laws and regulations. (For
more detail on this topic, see the recently prepared World Bank document Hungary
- Environmental Strategy Study.)
2.13    Presently the Ministry for Environment and Regional Policy (KTM) has
overall responsibility for environmental matters in the country. The Ministry
consists of 400 staff and its primary responsibilities include formulation of
environmental legislation and policy, coordination of environmental roles with
other ministries, and overseeing the implementation and enforcement of
environmental measures. Enforcement is primarily carried out by 12 regional
directorates. The Ministry also cooperates with an Institute for Environmental
Protection which is also engaged in research. The Ministry' s functions are
currently under review; it is likely that the regional directorates will play an
increasing role in enforcement in the near future (also see para 5.10).
2.14    In Hungary, among the most important air polluters are coal/lignite
fired power  (and heating)  plants.    Primary pollutants  are particulates
(representing the greatest health hazard) and sulfur dioxide. Nitrogen oxides,
although emitted from power stations, are not the chief source of pollution.
Nitrogen oxide pollution arises primarily from the transport sector. Coal mining
adversely affects the quality of groundwater and soil. Most Hungarian coal is
strip mined and evacuated areas should be restored. Discharges of mine waters,
high in salt and heavy metals, are a major source of groundwater pollution.
2.15    The government's approach to address these issues in the medium term is
to improve energy efficiency and increase the share of natural gas in the energy
sector.   Where coal or oil is replaced with gas, dust and sulfur dioxide
emissions are eliminated. Introduction of dust collection systems (electrostatic
precipitators) at existing coal-fired power stations over the past several years
has also reduced considerably particulate emissions, but the power sector is
still estimated to be responsible for 30 percent of all dust emissions in
Hungary.   In the future, any new coal-fired units, if installed, would be
required to meet stricter standards on dust emissions.
2.16    To make all efforts to reach social consensus, the Government
increasingly includes the involvement of the public in decisions concerning
development of the national energy system. The energy strategy recognizes a need
for the energy institutions and local governments to improve their capabilities
in environmental monitoring and management. It is only with these improved
capabilities that the necessary basis can be developed so that the government's
energy strategies may be implemented in an environmentally sound manner.



- 7 -
2.17    The main basis for current legislation i. i environmental matters is the
Act II of 1976 on the Protection of the Human Environment. Included in this
legislation are references to soil, water, wildlife, landscape and settlements.
As recently as 1986-1990 (7th Five Year Plan) all new projects and imported
machinery had to comply with environmental regulations. Standards exist for
water purity, emission levels of air pollutants (according to area use in which
emitter is located) and permissible levels of noise and vibrations. At present
Hungary is a party to several international environmental agreements.   In
particular, the Geneva Convention on long range transboundary air pollution --
including the Helsinki protocol to achieve a 30 percent reduction in sulfur
dioxide emissions, over the 1980 values by 1993 and the Memorandum of Sofia --
requiring Nox emissions to be maintained at the 1987 level by 1994. Already in
1989 Hungary had achieved a 25.4 percent reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions
and projections for the power sector indicate an overall reduction of 29 percent
by 1993 (39 percent in the power sector alone) if emissions from non-power
sectors maintain 1989 levels.   For nitrogen oxides, Hungary had actually
experienced a 6.5 percent reduction in emission from 1987 to 1989; five years
ahead of the compliance schedule. The power sector is taking additional measures
to further reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by over 32 percent by 1994.
(iii) Remulatorv Matters
2.18    As part of the changes from centralized government control to a free
market economy, the energy sector entities are being restructured. In the power
sector, the monopolistic nature of the operations necessitates a regulatory
framework to ensure appropriate resource allocations and cost recovery and to
ensure that the public's interest and safety are well served. In addition, an
appropriate regulatory framework is needed to facilitate the entry of private
interests in the energy sector.
2.19    The power sector presently operates on the basis of the 1962 Electricity
Act, supplemented with other more current laws and regulations establishing,
inter alia, the tariff setting authority of MIT and the corporate framework for
the power companies. Although an up-to-date regulatory framework is desirable
to optimize the sector's operation in a market economy, the present legal and
administrative arrangements at least during the transitory period permit the
sector to operate in a generally acceptable manner. However, under the direction
of MIT, work has commenced to develop an upgraded legal, institutional and
regulatory framework.  The work, with bllateral assistance from France, the UK
and the US, and also with Bank support commenced in 1991 and focused on:
developing a new Electricity Act as the legal basis for the new regulatory
framework;  and developing alternatives  for the  "modus operandi"   of the
regulatory mechanism. The main areas covered are: (a) work specifically related
to the drafting of the new Act; (b) matters related to regulatory decrees; (c)
licenses; (d) the establishment of a regulatory body; (e) financial and
structural alternatives; and (f) commercial matters. The MIT solicited comments
worldwide, from utilities, regulatory bodies, and from the Bank; MIT after
reviewing the draft Act in the light of the comments solicited, submitted it to
the Parliament where it is expected to be finalized in early 1994.   The
development of the regulatory framework in addition to improving operational
efficiencies,  would  also  improve  the  environment  for  private  sector
participation. In response to the government's request, the Bank indicated its
willingness to continue accompanying the work related to the regulatory matters.



(iv)    Ener&X Prices
2.20    The Government has recognized the need to reform prices to reflect
economic costs necessary to encourage end-use efficiency and energy conservation
and particularly the more rational use of electricity through the introduction
of cost reflective tariffs. Hungary began adjusting its energy prices towsrds
cost recovery levels well before being forced to pay world market prices for
imported energy. In 1990 most prices to consumers covered economic costs, but
prices to households lagged behind. In January 1991, petroleum product prices
and imports were freed from government control and import duties and other import
charges on refined petroleum products were removed in 1992. However large sales
taxes are applied to gasoline and diesel oil but not to other energy carriers.
During 1991 household energy prices were raised by a weighted average of 91% and
government budget subsidies on energy used by households were almost comp`.etely
eliminated. At the beginning of 1992 LPG, fuelwood and coal prices were freed,
and control over prices of district heat sold by local distributors was
transferred to local authorities.
2.21    The prices now remaining under government control are for electricity,
natural gas and district heat sold by power stations to distributors and large
industrial users. In August 1992, the price of natural gas for households was
increased by 15%, prices of electricity for households were increased by 43% for
annual consumption in excess of 600 kWh by day and 2400 kWh by night (lifeline
block), and prices of district heat sold by MVM Rt were raised by an average of
40% for industrial use and 15% for residential use. As a result, outside of the
"lifeline block", household electricity and gas prices are currently about 70%
and 80% respectively of their corresponding economic costs.
2.22    Under SAL 2, the Government agreed to implement, before the third
tranche release, tariff structures and formulae for maintaining electricity and
natural gas prices at economic cost levels (price and cost comparisons for
electricity and natural gas are in Annex 2.5).  In early 1992, the Government
indicated that, for general socio-economic reasons, it would not be able to
comply ful'.y during 1992 with its earlier undertaking. In September 1992, the
Government informed the Bank that its new objective is to meet the SAL 2 targets
by end of 1995 in accordance with the following specific time schedules:
(i)     on November  1,  1993,  introducing a third tariff block for
household customers using more than 300 kWh per month during
daytime and 1000 kWh per month for nighttime water heating with
prices of 7.50 forints per kilowatt hour and 3.50 forints for
daytime  and nighttime  respectively.    (The third block was
introduced on schedule.);
(ii)     by August 1994, increase average residential tariffs by 20% in
real terms, plus further adjustments would be introduced as
necesssary to cover real cost increases during the preceding 12
months; and
(iii)     by mid-1995, increase average residential tariffs by a further 20%
in real terms, plus introduce adjustments to cover real cost
increases.



- 9 -
These increases would raise household prices to the economic cost level. After
1995 electricity prices are to be adjusted as warranted to ensure that their
level remains on par with the economic cost of supply. A similar program covers
the natural gas tariffs.
2.23    Durina loan neaotiations aareement was reached with the Government to
exchanae views, at the reguest of the Bank or the Government, rea-rdi         m he
covernment's electricity vricinc policy and its  imnLementation.   Also the
Government aareed that as lonq as it exercises control over settina electricity
prices. it will enable MVM Rt to fulfill its obliga&ions under the Loan Aureemont
covenants includina compliances with the financial covenants. This will permit
the monitoring of the electricity tariff program as per SAL 2.



- 10 -
III. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Qrganization. 0perational and ownership Structure
3.01    Prior to January 1992, MVMT controlled all aspects of electricity supply
and distribution in Hungary, in addition to supplying steam and hot water to
local district heating distributors and to some large industrial plants. The
organization comprised 11 power and heat generating companies, a transmission
company, six regional distribution companies, and four service companies dealing
with construction, maintenance and installation. MVMT was operating under strict
State control as part of the central planning process; investment funding was
provided from the State budget; annual plans and targets were set and monitored
by the Government.
3.02    Effective from January 1992, the MVMT entities were rearranged into a
group of corporations. MVM Rt was established as the holding company with 15
subsidiaries; eight for power generation, six for distribution and one as the
National Transmission Company. Originally, the share capital of MVM Rt was held
by the State Property Agency (SPA); recently it has been taken over by the newly
established SAMC (State Assets Management Company). SAMC, a wholly state-owned
Joint-stock company, was established in November 1992 with a portfolio of 163
State Enterprises (SB) to manage the ownership interests of the Government in the
SE's including MVM Rt. The MVM At owns 50* of the subsidiary companies; the
State Property Agency (SPA) owns about 49W and the Mhnicipalities about 1i. The
transfer of shares from SPA to SAMC as well as integration of some coal mines
with power plants is in progress. The current organization of the power sector
and the enterprises are shown in Annex 3.1.
3.03    The objective of the restructuring and corporatization was to decen-
tralize the operational decision making process, to replace the central planning
mechanism by contractual relationships between the generation and distribution
subsidiaries and to improve efficiency of operations. For example, commercial
arrangements for the purchase and sale between the generating companies, MVM Rt
and the distribution companies are formalized in annual contracts, replacing the
previous system of largely arbitrary internal pricing.
3.04    The new organization and management structure of MVM Rt has been defined
in its Articles of Association which have been approved by the SPA as a founder
of MVM Rt. Accordingly, MVM Rt has a Board of directors, presenting a broad
cross section of interests; four from Government (the owner), one from MVM Rt
(the CEO), two representatives from outside companies, and one each for banks,
academic institutions and a member of the Parliament.   There is also a
Supervisory Board with three members.
B. Existing Facilities
3.05    installed power generating capacity in the MVM group is 7187 MW (Annex
3.2) with the gross available capacity of 6700 MW.  The gross installed and
available capacity of autoproducers are 212 MW and 203 MW respectively. Taking



- 11 -
into account imports, the total available capacity is 8166 MW providing a
satisfactory reserve margin of about 31* over the maximum demand.
3.06    The installed capacity includes: nuclear (1760 MW); oil and gas steam
plants (2730 MW); coal power plants, some of which can use gas or oil (2233 MW);
combustion turbines (202 MW); and hydro (48 MW) (Annex 3.3). The availability
(load) factors of the 4x440 MW nuclear units, which were brought into service
from 1983-1987, have varied between 81.2% and 85.3%; the. results are comparable
to some of the best OECD stations.  Most of the oil and gas steam capacity was
commissioned in the mid-1970s and has satisfactory net efficiency and low outage
rates. Most of the coal plants were built in the 1950s-1960s, and have high
operating costs and high level of pollution. With the exception of Matra, an 800
MW coal fired plant which was rehabilitated in the late 1980s with assistance
under the Bank's First Power Project and has a satisfactory operating
performance, nearly all other coal fired plant will be retired during the 1990s.
MVM Rt's existing combustion turbines were built in the early 1970s and are
nearing the end of their useful lives.   Power station uses and losses of
electricity for whole MVM Rt generating system are equal to about 8% of gross
generation and, given the type and age of the equipment, are considered
acceptable. MVM's practices to minimize fuel costs are generally satisfactory
(Annex 3.4). However, MVM Rt is obliged by an agreement between the Government
and the minersI unions to use more coal than would be financially or economically
optimal. The finances of MVM Rt can tolerate this interim arrangement which is
dictated by the social reasons associated with the gradual closing of uneconomic
mines.
3.07    The transmission system totals about 5530 km including: 268 km of 750
kV line, 1477 km of 400 kV lines, 1250 km of 220 kV lines and 2535 km of 120 kV
lines.   The distribution network is about 140000 km.   Transmission and
distribution losses of less than 12% of net electricity supply are considered
satisfactory.
C. Demand Side ManaRement
3.08    In Hungary the most significant program for electricity Demand Side
Management (DSM) focuses on the tariff structure. The current structure has been
in existence for sometime and it differentiates between demand and energy charges
and within the energy charges between peak, day -nd night periods (Annex 3.5).
For most consumer categories the peak charge is <bout double the night charge.
While the tariff structure will be reformed, it is not likely that significant
changes in the relationship between peak and off-peak charges will be necessary.
3.09    There is a second significant DSM program, a ripple control system
financed by BIB, which is designed to use electronic signals to interrupt
consumers possessing heat storage equipment during peak periods. During 1992 MVM
Rt temporarily stopped work on this project due to fund shortgages and on the
grounds that at that time its power system was not short of capacity; MVM Rt
plans to resume work on this program in 1994. The reduction in peak demand
resulting from this project, when it is completed, for the entire system could
be between 100-300 MM annually.



- 12 -
3.10    In early 1991, a consultant started to work with MVMT to identify and
develop further DSM programs, such as the promotion of locally manufactured
compact fluorescent lamps and to recommend appropriate organizational structure
to implement and monitor in the future DSM. The recommended program(s) are being
considered by MVM Rt; the implementation would require financial incentives to
customers, offering a range of choices by means of audits, optional off-peak
measures, possibly free installation of equipment, testing new technologies,
promoting conservation through an aggressive public relations campaign and
influencing the market environment through government measures such as new
appliance standards and amended building codes.
D.  Electricity Demand
3.11    Past Consumntion.  Const:mption of electricity in Hungary grew by 3.7%
per year between 1975 and 1989. Following declines in GDP of 5.9% in 1990 and
10.2% in 1991, consumption reduced to 37.4 TWh in 1991. The composition of demand
also changed. The share of industry fell from 57% of the total in 1975 to 38%
in 1991, while that of the households grew from 15% to 32%. These changes were
due to lack of competitiveness in some energy-intensive industries, to energy
conservation programs in the industrial sector during the 1980s, and due to
holding household electricity prices below the non-residential prices. Due to
this distortion of prices in favor of the household consumer, their consumption
grew by 6% in 1990 and 6.5% in 1991. Apparently many small new businesses, which
sprung up during this period, were taking advantage of the low household rates.
3.12    Future Electricity Demand.   The future growth of demand will be
influenced by the rate at which the economy pulls out of the current recession
and the combined effects of the macro-economic reforms and industrial
restructuring on increasing efficiency of electricity use.   For planning
purposes, projections ranging from a low 37 TWh in 2000 to a high 46 TWh have
been developed by MVM Rt.  The low projection takes into account the sharp
consumption drop in 1991 and early 1992. It also assumes that GDP will continue
to fall until 1994 and parallel with these, total electricity consumption would
decline and bottom out at 33 TWh in 1994. Demand is expected to grow after 1994
by about 1.4% p.a. to reach 37 TWh in 2000. In order to be on the conservative
side this projection was chosen for evaluation of the proposed Project. Detailed
estimates are shown in Annex 3.6.
S.   Investment Program
3.13    Generation. Retirement and Import.  Although according to the demand
projections total consumption does not return to the 1989 level of 40.7 TWh until
after the year 2000, new generating capacity will be needed to replace units
scheduled for retirement and to compensate for the expected loss of imports. MWM
Rt will retire (or put temporarily in cold reserve) 500 MW of coal-fired capacity
by 1996 and 1150 MW by 2000. The retirement program is justified on cost-savings
grounds alone since these units have per unit operating (including fuel) costs
greater than the levelized cost of new combined-cycle plants using natural gas.
In addition, the replacement of the old units would mitigate environmental
problems. The problem of imports stems from the uncertainties associated with



- 13 -
purchasing electricity (and generally fuel) from the CIS. MVM Rt is currently
planning its power generating investments on the assumption of having annual
imports of about 0.7 TWh from 1995 onwards (currently less than 3 Twh).  By the
year 2000 the loss in capacity from retirements and lost import would be about
2290 MW, equal to 28* of total available capacity in 1991. Therefore, despite
low projected demand, new generating capacity will still be needed.
3.14    Generation Technolovy Ontions.  MVM Rt's investment strategy up to the
year 2000 centers on: (i) the conversion of existing heat-producing and
conventional cogeneration plants to combined-cycle cogenerating units with gas-
fired combustion turbines, the result would be increased electricity generation
while maintaining existing heat supplies, with much improved energy efficiency;
and (ii) open-cycle combustion turbines to replace imports during peak periods,
and new combined-cycle plants, including units located at gas fields using low
pressure gas. Possibilities of installing new fluidized-bed generating units at
sites of retired coal plants, are also being investigated. For the period after
2000, several large base load options, all over 1000 MW, including new nuclear,
indigenous lignite and/or imported coal based power stations are being
considered. A decision regarding the type of the facilities and the time for
implementation is expected late 1994. Projected capacity and energy balances and
the least-cost power generation investment program are in Annex 3.7.
3.15    Site Selection.  A number of studies were carried out by MVM Rt to
determine the optimum way to meet the needs for capacity and to replace some
aging district heating boilers and cogeneration plants. The studies demonstrated
that considering the present trend of electricity demand, and the scarcity of
financial resources, a new large base load power plant to be put into operation
before the turn of the century is neither necessary nor economically feasible.
Capacity requirements until about year 2000 can be best met by gas-fired combined
cycle cogeneration plants. These would provide both electricity and heat with
high fuel efficiency and would require relatively modest capital investment,
while mitigating adverse environmental impacts. Based on the initial screenings
of 12 plant sites and followed by the evaluation of the most likely gas-fired
generation candidates, and taking into account site conditions, land
availability, space constraints, access roads and other infrastructure
requirements, the assessment of the district heating network served by these
plants, the availability of cooling water, fuel supply facilities, existing plant
characteristics, public acceptability, plant economy, heat and power demand,
feasibility of integration with existing power and heating facilities, and the
status of project preparation, the Dunamenti combined cycle cogeneration plant
was found to be the highest priority investment.
F.  Bank Activities in the Sector
3.16    Bank lending to the energy sector started in 1983 and so far the
portfolio includes six loans. There are also energy-related agreements under the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 2, Loan 3347-HU).
3.17    The  Petrochemical  Prolect  (Loan No.  2398-HU)  with US$93 million
supported hydrocarbon developments and the Industrial Enercrv Diversification and
Conservation Prolect (Loan No. 2317-HU) supported, with US$109 million, energy
diversification  and  conservation  programs,   institutional  building  and



- 14 -
technological development. Both projects are completed and the loans are closed.
A successful feature of the loan was a line of credit to industrial enterprises
to finance energy conservation and diversification projects. The project also
financed the distribution of gas to 15 towns and 58 settlements, and the
installation of a pilot fluidized bed boiler. The loan was followed up by two
further lines of credit (Loan Nos. 2709 and 3055-HU) for energy conservation by
industries.   While the second line of credit has been largely committed,
disbursements have been slow under the third, mainly because of uncertainties in
the industrial sector during Hungary's transition to market economy.
3.18   2Th  First Power Prolect (Loan No. 2697-HU, Jur2 1986) was to assist the
Government with US$64 million to increase utilization of domestic coal in power
generation through rehabilitating coal-fired plants and improving MVMT's
management and operations. In 1991 the Loan Agreement was amended to permit $26
million of the loan amount to be used towards financing investments at the gas-
fired Kelenfold Power Station to increase electricity generation by about 600 GWh
per year while ensuring the continuation of the existing supply of district
heating. With the exception of this component, wnere procurement was delayed
because of the change in project scope, implementation of the project has been
satisfactory and MVMT (predecessor of MVM Rt) has complied with all loan
covenants.
3.19    The Energy Development (Oil and Gas) Proiect (Loan No. 3056-HU, US$100
million, 1989) supports improvements in the policy and institutional framework
of the energy sector, and financing of high priority investments in oil and gas
field development, upgrading and enhanced recovery, underground gas storage and
pipeline network improvements, and specialized exploration and production
equipment. The Borrower's reorganization into MOL Rt proceeded well; however,
utilization of the loan funds has been slower than expected, partly because of
downward revisions in estimated requirements and partly because MOL Rt now has
access to other than Bank sources for foreign currency funds which were not
available earlier.
3.20    Recent sector work  included the preparation of draft  report on
"Environmental Stratecw" in Hungary and an Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) report on "Natural gas Imnort Options".
3.21    In preparing this project, the lessons learned in past power projects,
both in Hungary and the Region as recorded by the Operations Evaluation
Department, were applied.   Particular effort was made to ensure that all
preparatory work necessary for the project's successful implementation will be
done prior to loan effectiveness. Series of agreements and monitoring measures
would assist in maintaining the power companies financial viabilities. Various
technical and institutional implementation aspects have been taken care of by
training arrangements, involvement of consultants and by well defined supervision
program. The project fits well within the Bank's assistance strategy for Hungary
(para 1.03) and supports the government's policy objectives for the energy sector
(para 2.10).



- 15 -
IV. THE BORROWER AN THE BENEFICIARY
4.01    The Hungarian Power Companies Ltd, MMV Rt, will be the Borrower for the
proposed Bank Loan and will be responsible for the impleme-tation of the entire
Project. MVM Rt has the responsibility as well as the capacity for planning,
organizing and implementing all the facilities which have system-wide importance
(Also see paras 5.26 and 5.27).   For the major project components  the
cogenerating plant and the environmental facilities situated at Dunamenti Power
Plant site, which represent about two-thirds of the project cost, Dunamenti Rt
will be the beneficiary. On completion, Dunamenti Rt will own and operate these
facilities.  MNM Rt and Dunamenti Rt will. as a condition of Loan effectiveness,
enter into an Onerational Aareement satisfactory to the Bank which will, inter
alia, include the following:
(i)     Proiect Implementation; while the Borrower will be responsible for
the overall implementation of the project, implementation tasks
related to the facilities to be situated at Dunamenti will be
allocated between MVM Rt and Dunamenti Rt.
(ii)     ownership and Operations; Dunamenti will be the owner of the
facilities and on completion will operate these facilities.
(iii)     Fund Flows and Financial Performance; fund flows associated with
the implementation, commissioning and operation of the Project
facilities at Dunamenti and Dunamenti Rt's financial performance
targets will be specified. (For the targets see para 6.13.)
(iv)     Various obliqations; resulting from the Borrower's agreements with
the World Bank on procurement, project accounting, reporting
requirements, etc.
For the other smaller components, the beneficiaries will be the various
subsidiary companies at which the investments will take place. For the EMS, the
beneficiary will be the entire Hungarian power syatem. For these, contractual
arrangements similar to those of Dunamenti would riot be necessary.
A. KM Rt
4.02    Subsequent to the government's decision to decentralize the energy
sector, MVMT was restructured as a joint stock company with groups of power
generating and distribution subsidiaries. The organizational structure of MVM
Rt is in Annex 4.1. The objective of the restructuring was to loosen up the
previously rigid central control, delegate decision mAking authority to the
various companies, establish a basis for commercial operation, and introduce
efficiency-based competition. In addition the restructuring is preparing the
ground for private capital investment at a later stage.   According to the
arrangements the holding company (MVM Rt) will, on an annual comnercial contract
basis, purchase power from the generating subsidiaries and sell the power, again
on a commercial contract basis, to the distribution companies (also see para
4.08)  While the companies are distinct commercial entities, with their own
corporate plans, operational and financial targets, MVM Rt's role, particularly



- 16 -
in areas such as strategic planning and developing operational, environmental and
financial policies, would remain dominant. Being the largest shareholder and
having substantial representation on the various companies' Boards, MVM Rt is in
the position to ensure the implementation of sector-wide policies. For these
reasons the Environmental and the Human Resource Development components of the
p-oposed project are primarily directed to MvM Rt.
4.03    The MVM group of companies presently have about 39,000 employees, 58W
in the distribution, 40% in power generation and 2% in administrative areas.
About 30% of the employees are in the skilled category and 70% in semi or
unskilled category. The present technical skill mix served the predecessor of
MVM Rt well; however, now it is not suitable for an increasingly commercially
oriented operation. Engineers and technicians represent about 70% of the skilled
staff, while only about 30% of the skilled employees are trained in the areas of
financing,  marketing  and  corporate  management.       With  the  increasing
commercialization of the company, the relative weight of these categories will
have to change considerably, supported by proper human resource management
practices.
4.04    Human resource management does not have a long history in Hungary, and
in a newly constituted company, such as MVM Rt, it is in an embryonic stage.
Improvement in this area, supported by appropriate training, is among the most
important tasks to facilitate the introduction of modern power utility management
practices, and to transform the "government department" type of operation to that
of a commercial company.  Considerable skill acquisition and highly focused
training programs are needed; and the project, through the Human Resource
Development component, will provide assistance for this (paras 5.08 and S.09).
4.05    Until recently in the power subsector, financial information was neither
kept nor disclosed on the basis of generally accepted accounting standards. In
Hungary, a conceptually different accounting system has been in existence for
decades. Substantial information was collected to satisfy municipal and State
regulations, however, hardly any emphasis was on developing an economic base for
management decisions, on analyzing cost and profit centers, and budgetary
performance. Managers and staff were neither trained nor were adequately
experienced in generally accepted accounting methods and in financial management.
Also internal auditing was more of a verification process, restricted to checking
the use of the approved budgets and the compliances with regulations. Financial
and management audits by outside independent auditors, which is found in most of
the market economies, generally was not practised in Hungary. However, MVMT did
have satisfactory external audits, as it was required under a World Bank loan
(2697-HU).
4.06    Recognizing the need to strengthen and upgrade the modern accounting
system based financial management, MVM Rt has started a program partly with
bilateral assistance (from the UK and the US) to introduce improvements. The
work targets at selected high priority areas of general and cost accounting;
capital and operating budgets; budget analysis; development of cost and profit
centers; short- and medium-term financial planning; revenue and expenditure
forecasting; working capital management; budget evaluation; fixed asset
management; and internal audit and control. The proposed project, through its
training component, will provide assistance to MVM Rt for improvements in areas
such as cashflow management and treasury functions.



- 17 -
B. Dunamenti Rt
4.07    The Dunamenti Heat/Power Plant as a State Enterprise was established in
the 19605. It is situated about 30 km southwest from Budapest at the outskirts
of the town of Szazhalombatta. The plant was developed in two stages reaching
its present production capacity of 1290 MWe in 1976. The Dunamenti Plant was
transformed into a joint stock company at the end of 1991 and became Dunamenti
Power Plant Company Limited (Dunamenti Rt). The major shareholder of Dunamenti
Rt is MVM Rt owning 50% of the shares; about 48% of the shares is owned by SPA
and the remainder is owned by the local government. Dunamenti Rt is organized
in a conventional corporate pattern (see Annex 4.2).
4.08    nunamenti Rt's two products are sold to three customers: electricity
energy to MVM Rt and heat energy partly to Dunamenti Refinery of MOL Rt and
partly to the city of Szazhalombatta.   The operation of Dunamenti Rt is
determined by a Master Contract between MVM Rt and its subsidiaries which
provides for: (a) operations; (b) commercial; (c) financial; and (d) investment
contracts which are reviewed annually.
4.09    The present operation contract stipulates methods, objectives, technical
criteria and parameters, e.g., fuel consumption per unit output, fixed costs,
investment resources, etc.  The commercial contract stipulates the electric
energy production and sales, determines available capacity for the system and the
price to be paid for electricity by MVM Rt. The financing contract stipulates
the financial rules and methods governing resource transfers, monthly payments
for electricity and general payment conditions. The investment contract (when
applicable) covers investment project related matters if they are to be
undertaken on behalf of a subsidiary (in this case Dunamenti Rt) and for which
MV'?M Rt provides resources. This contract also includes internal accounting
arrangements for the investments.



- 18 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
5.01    The proposed Project aims to reduce Hungary'a dependence on energy
imports from a single source, to increase the efficiency, reliability and
flexibility in the production of electricity and heat, and to provide a basis for
strong interconnection with the UCPTE grid.   In addition the Project would
support continued environmental and institutional improvements in the power
sector.
B. Prolect Description
5.02    The proposed Project includes:  (i) construction of a gas-fired combined
cycle cogeneration plant of 235 MWe and 240 MWt at Dunamenti Power Plant site
about 30 km southwest of Budapest; (ii) the upgrading of MVM RtIs existing Energy
Management System (EMS); (iii) assistance to: (a) develop an Environmental Master
Plan, (b) reinforce the environmental management and monitoring capabilities, and
(c) install water pollution, ambient air and noise level monitoring equipment at
selected sites; and (iv) assistance to upgrade the human resource management,
training and institution building capacity in the power sector.
(i)     Dunamenti Combined Cycle CoRgeneration Plant
5.03    MVM Rt is in the process of constructing a combined cycle cogeneration
section at Dunamenti site. The section will consist of two gas fired combined
cycle modules, operating in cogeneration mode for producing both electricity and
heat, to be implemented in two stages. The first stage development (Gl module)
is being implemented, and it involves the installation of a V94.2 Siemens gas
turbine of 145 MWe with a 300 ton/hour heat recovery steam generator supplying
steam for the nearby oil refinery. The second stage development (G2 module, part
of this project) is required to meet the balance of the heat demand, and will
provide additional power generation capacity for the system.
5.04    The G2 module is designed to maximize integration with the existing
facility and it can be accommodated without the need to acquire additional land.
The module would include a combined cycle unit consisting of a 145 MW gas
turbine, a 300 ton/hour heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), a 25 MW back-
pressure steam turbine, a 65 MWe condensing steam turbine, electrical and
mechanical auxiliary equipments, and the provision for associated civil works and
ancillary facilities at the plant site. The gas turbine and generator will be
installed next to the GI module. To maximize economies in construction and in
operation, at the request of MVM Rt, it was agreed that the gas turbine of the
G2 .aiodule be identical to the gas turbine of the G1 module. To ensure this,
since Siemens of Germany supplied the turbine for the G1 module, the turbine for
the G2 module would also be directly procured from Siemens (also see para 5.17).
The heat recovery generator will be unfired, dual-pressure designed to accept the
maximum exhaust temperature and gas flow of the connected gas turbine. Bypass
exhaust between the gas turbine and the HRSG will be provided to enable the gas
turbine to maintain full load in the event of a condensing steam turbine trip or



- 19 -
shutdown. This arrangement will also provide the possibility to commission the
gas turbine about one year earlier than the HRSG with the steam turbines. The
-ditional power generating capacity of the G2 module would be 235 MWe, and the
heat generating capacity about 240 MWt.  The use of waste heat from the gas
turbine to supply processing steam for the nearby oil refinery and the hot water
supply for district heating in the nearby town of Szazhalombatta, and at the same
time produce additional electric power through the attached steam turbines,
increases the overall thermal efficiency of the plant to 81.4 % compared to the
70% of the existing cogenerating units to be replaced. (For details see Annex
5.1).
(ii)    Un_radinR the Energy Nanagement System (EMS)
5.05    The existing national and regional dispatch centers are of inflexible
design, based on obsolete technology. Taking into account the development of the
Hungarian power system, the expansion of international power interchange and the
upcoming interconnection with UCPTE, the existing control systems fall short of
meeting the flexibility and rapid response time required for effective
cooperation with the neighboring countries and, in particular, with UCPTE. As
they cannot be expanded cost-effectively to meet even the current needs, the
upgrading of the existing National Dispatch Center and Regional Dispatch Centers
should be undertaken without delay. (Annex 5.2.)
5.06    National Disnatch Center (NDC) Ubaradina will cover replacement of the
EMS master station at the NDC located in Budapest, with associated remote
facilities at major substations and power plants, and the expansion and upgrading
of the data communication network that will be required to support the national
EMS facilities. After upgrading, about 40 remote terminal units (RTUs) will be
monitored directly by the NDC. The upgraded system will achieve: (a) basic
supervisory control and data acquisition functions (real time); (b) dispatch
functions (near real time); (c) forecasting and scheduling functions; and (d)
operations analysis functions (post-dispatch); it will also include online
dispatcher's training simulator.
5.07    Reaional Dispatch Centers (RDCs) Uncradincr.  Two of the existing RDCs
are already automated to varying degrees, and their upgrading is already
underway.   The presentl, non-automated RDCs of four regional distribution
companies (in Debrecen, in Pecs, in Gyor, and in Budapest) will be equipped with
modern EMS. Computerization of these four RDCs will bring the country,s six RDCs
to the same level of automation to perform the supervisory control and data
acquisition functions for the network within their jurisdictionis and to
communicate with the )DC. About 70 new RTUs will be monitored by the four new
RDCs through 17 data concentrators which will be located in the selected District
Dispatch Centers of each of the respective regional distribution companies. The
upgrading will achieve: (a) secure and safe operation of the distribution
network; (b) monitoring and control of distribution equipment; (c) handling of
local district emergencies; (d) supervision and control of switching operations
at the substations; and (e) interaction with the NDC.
(iii) Human Resource hanagement and Training
5.08    A program identifying priority areas where skill acquisition, technical
assistance and training is needed, has been defined taking into account the
composition of MVM Rt's manpower skills. The program is sufficiently flexible



- 20 -
to permit the introduction of additional focal points and/or reorientation
towards high priority areas emerging in the future.
5.09    The following major areas are included in the program:
(a) Consultancy assistance for short-term intensive training, in two
groups of six people, deputy manager level, primarily from the
Development, Economic and Operation Departments in: finance for
management, including cost control, budgeting, contracting,
management reporting; people management, meeting and negotiation
skills,   personal  organization   and  planning;   and  trade
organizations, human resource and conflict management (Conceptual
Terms of Reference is in Annex 5.3.)
(b) Training of up to five officials from the Human Resources
Department of MVM Rt, in policies and methods for: job design and
description including roles and responsibilities; job evaluation;
rotation policies; career and succession at various company
levels; competency and skill analysis; remuneration policy, salary
scale and linkage with the job evaluation system; personal
performance follow up; and manpower planning (Conceptual Terms of
Reference is in Annex 5.4.)
Cc)  Consultancy assistance to the Human Resource Department of MVM Rt
to implement the tasks mentioned in (b) above.  The Terms of
Reference for the work will be prepared after completion of the
tasks described in (b) above.
(d)   Consultancy assistance and appropriate training to support the:
development and extension of management training at the subsidiary
companies of MVM Rt; Human Resources Department of MVM Rt in
coordinating the development of policies and methods in the
subsidiary companies; complementary training for technology
transfers including language training; participation in selected
conferences and technical study visits abroad; training (with
consultancy assistance) to improve MVM Rt group of companies'
capacity on a wider basis in modern procurement methodologies
(including evaluation techniques) aiming to reach and maintain
internationally accepted standarda; training in cash-flow
management and treasury functions; and other trainings in programs
relevant to human resource development to be agreed from time to
time with the Bank.
Durina neaotiaticns it was aareed that the detailed nroqrams and TORs
for this comnonent will be reviewed on a reaular basis. but at least
once a year: by October 31 before the becinninq of each calendar vear
MVM Rt will submit to the Bank the list of reauirements. annroved by the
manaGement of the Company. for comments and for final mutual aareement.



- 21 -
(iv)    8nvironmental Mfnagement
5.10    Although the Ministry for Environment and Regional Policy has overall
responsibility for environmental matters and in particular for air pollution
control strategies in the country, it has so far not come up with a coherent
approach. Given the modest capabilities of the Ministry in this area, in a
practical sense it is crucial to strengthen the competence and abilities of the
Borrower in order to effectively address environmental issues of the power
sector.   At present within MVM Rt, the Environmental Protection Section is
responsible for: developing strategies concerning environmental issues for the
Power sector as a whole, providing expert views to company personnel regarding
environmental matters, and liaising with government officials and environmental
groups.    Responsibilities  for  other  environmental  activities  such  as
environmental assessment preparation, environmental data collection/review
analysis, air quality modelling, specification of monitoring equipment needs,
etc., are performed by various other MVM Rt divisions and subsidiary companies.
It is considered important that all environmental activities performed at MVM Rt
be consolidated in the Environmental Section and that this Section would be the
focal point to develop comprehensive policies and methodologies for the entire
power sector. However, existing staff capabilities to meet their professional
commitments are limited. Few employees have received any formal training in
areas of their responsibilities and their involvement in key project decisions
or overall company strategies is limited. To remedy the problems, this project
component will include: an environmental training program (Annex 5.5); a
monitoring program (Annex 5.6); technical assistance to develop an environmental
master plan; and a mitigation program for Dunamenti Rt to deal with the problems
identified in the Environmental Assessment (EA).
5.11    Environmental Traininca Procaram will be provided for MVM Rt staff, in
areas of environmental management, pollution control technology for power plants,
environmental assessment (EA), modelling (energy/environment planning) and
international cooperation.   The training for the staff of the subsidiary
companies will focus on monitoring procedures and maintenance of monitoring
equipment.  During negotiations. it was acrreed that each Year MVM Rt will obtain
the Bank's concurrence to the details of the next year's Droposed trainina
Program by October 31 Prior to the beginning of the next calendar year.
5.12    The monitorinc nrocram includes continuous flue gas emission monitoring
at two power plants (Dunamentil and Tisza), water pollution monitoring at three
power plants (Dunamenti, Matra and Tisza), ambient air monitoring at Dunamenti,
and noise monitoring at eight heat/power generation facilities. The equipment
which will be purchased under this component will supplement the monitoring
equipment currently in operation or being installed by MVM Rt., and will complete
all the environmental monitoring needs.
5.13    An Environmental Master Plan (EMP) for the power sector (see Annex 5.7
for Terms of Reference) will be carried at by MVM Rt with the assistance of
consultants.   The EMP will consist of three phases:   Phase I - Diagnostic
(determination of existing environmental conditions and environmental performance
of MVM Rt's power system, assessing existing regulatory framework, review the
2/ Continuous flue gas monitoring at G1 module is under construction, and
similar monitoring at G2 module is included in project design.



- 22 -
planned future power generation program in terms of its environmental
implications); Phase II - Identification of High Priority Needs/Actions (critical
environmental issues, issues affecting future planning decisions, technical
and/or economic measures to resolve these issues); Phase III - Implementation
(start of the remediation plan on a priority basis).
5.14    Mitigating measures will deal with problems identified in the EA, which
are noise and nitrogen oxides emissions. Consequently noise mitigation measures
have been included in the project design, consisting of equipment silencers and
noise absorbing walls. Nitrogen oxides (NO,) emission limits for the combined
cycle cogeneration component at Dunamenti (the "G2" module) will be within the
current Hungarian technical emission standards and World Bank Guidelines. The
bid documents for the cogeneration component will specify these limits (both for
oil and gas firing) and the bidders will be notified that their proposals should
include design estimates for this emission control as these will be included in
the bid evaluation.
C. Project Cost and Financint Plan
5.15    The estimated project cost,including physical and price contingencies
and interest during construction but excluding duties and taxes, is about
US$242.5 million equivalent, of which about US$168.9 million equivalent in
foreign exchange and about US$73.6 million equivalent in local cost. The cost
estimates reflect 1993 year end prices and are based on the latest tendering
information available for similar works in Hungary. The foreign exchange cost
of the project (excluding interest during construction) is estimated at US$159.6
million. Physical contingencies on civil works and other local costs were
estimated at 10, on plant equipment for Dunamenti at 5%, and 15* on both
equipment and local cost for EMS. These are in line with similar projects and
are considered adequate. Price contingencies for costs expresaed in terms of
foreign exchange (US dollars) and local costs are calculated according to
anticipated international price movements: 3.8% for 1993, 1.9% for 1994, 2.7* for
1995, 3.4* for 1996 and 3.6% for 1997. Costs including base cost, contingencies
and interest during construction are summarized in Table 5.1, and detailed cost
estimates are in Annex 5.8.



- 23 -
Table 5.1: SuMa  of Project CQota A/
-F_REIGN .  :1 ,-                                       I               FORETGA
LOCAL               O              TOTAL          LOCAL          fCREt6N                  COST AS X
I          I      f                  I _______ I                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF TOTAL
-          FT MILLION                                -S 4  ILLOtN  -
1.  OUNAMENTI COMBINED CYCLE UNIT                                           _
Sfte preparation                 50.0            0.0            50.0          O.S            0.0           0.5         0.0
Civit works                   1,450.0            0.0         1,450.0         14.5             0.0         14.5         0.0
Gas cycle                       190.0        4,550.0         4,740.0          1.9           45.5          47.4        96.0
Steafn cycte                    e50.0        3,980.0         4,630.0          6.5           39.8          46.3        86.0
Auxiliary elect./
mech. equipment                 410.0          530.0           940.0          4.1            5.3           9.4        56.1
Transmission                     90.0          580.0          670.0           0.9            5.8           6.7        86.6
Engineering                     400.0          500.0           900.0          4.0            5.0           9.0        55.6
Construction management         620.0            0.0           620.0          6.2            0.0           6.2         0.0
Subtotal               3.860.0       10,140.0       14,000.0         38.6           101.4         140.0        72.4
2. ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Energy Management System
for National Dispatch           430.0        1,190.0         1,620.0          4.3           11.9          16.2        73.5
Center 
Energy Management System
for Regioal Dispatch            870.0        1,650.0         2,520.0          8.7            16.5         25.2        65.5
Centers__                                    _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  _ _   __ _ _  _ _ _
Associated
telecommunica:ion               330.0          350.0           680.0          3.3            3.5           6.8        51.5
Dispatch training                40.0            30.0           70.0          0.4             0.3          0.7        42.9
_Engineerfng                    130.0           80.0           210.0          1.3             0.8          2.1        38.1
Construction management          70.0           20.0            90.0          0.7            0.2           0.9        22.2
Subtotal               1.870.0        3 320.0        5,190.0          18.?           33.2          51.9        64.0
3. ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM             20.0          470.0           490.0          0.2             4.7          4.9        9.9
4.  INSTITUTIONAL TRAINING           30.0           30.0   j        60.0          0.3     |       0.3          0.6   |   50.0
TOTAL BASE COST                   54780.0 a       3,96.o        19               57.8     |       9          197.4
Contingencies
physical .                      660.0          930.0         1,590.0          6.6     |      9.3          15.9        58.5
Price e                         470.0         1,070.0        1,540.0          4.7     1      10.7         15.4        69.7
TcCAL~~~~~~ T sZsv                                                                                          -7 iL6sAW.  i|1i+   
TOTAL   PROJECT    COS`t                      I              _  _  __  _ _    __  _  __  _ __  _  __  __.    t  &          6 .
durin constcton            450.0          430.0         1 380:0          4.5            9.3          13.8        67.4
InTer s--                         7 IL  t -                           69i.|
A/    Custom duties and taxes of USS17.9 million equivalent are not included.



- 24 -
5.16    The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would finance about 41% of the
total project cost, or about 59% of the foreign exchange requirements through the
following components:
(a)  supply and installation of major electrical,  mechanical and
auxiliary equipments for the Dunamenti combined cycle cogeneration
plant (US$51.8 million);
(b)   supply and installation of major equipment for EMS upgrading
(US$35.2 million);
(c)  technical assistance and supply of equipment for the environmental
program (US$5.0 million);
(d)   engineering consulting services  (US$7.3 million) and training
(US$0.7 million);
5.17    The tentative financing plan for the project is shown in Table 5.2:
Table 5.2: Financing Plan for the Proiect
(US$ million equivalent)
__________FOREI ACOST JfO3EoCOST] YOTAL CO
., 18RD   |    0.0   | 100,0   | 1QQ.Q
'IM Rt      , 73.6   T 68.9           142.5
"TOTAL1   73.6          1 _tsQ _.9S"1
MVM Rt intends to obtain Supplier's Credit financing for the gas cycle equipment
at Dunamenti plant to be procured directly from Siemens of Germany (see para
5.04). If successful, MVM RtIs foreign exchange contribution to project financing
will be reduced accordingly. To ensure the Project's integrity and satisfactory
execution in terms of cost, financing, quality and completion time, MVM Rt is
assisted by internationally experienced consultants who are employed both for the
preparatory and implementation phases of this component (see para 5.23).
Further, to ensure appropriate interfacing of the gas cycle and steam cycle
components, during loan negotiations. acreement was reached that MVM Rt's sicmina
of the contract for the cras cycle eauioment  (possibly with Siemens under
cofinancing arrangements) would be a condition for issuing the bidding documents
(through ICB procedures) for the steam cycle component.
5.18    The loan would be made directly to MVM Rt for 15 years including a grace
period of five years. The loan would be guaranteed by the Government of Hungary
and MVM Rt would bear the foreign exchange risks.



- 25 -
D. Procurement
5.19    The combined cycle major plant equipment would be divided into two
single responsibility  contracts:    one for the gas  cycle  (including gas
turbine/generator of 145 MW, its auxiliaries and bypass exhaust), to be financed
by Supplier' s Credit or by MVM Rt; and the other one for the steam cycle
(including heat recovery steam generator of 300 ton/hour, a 25 MW back pressure
steam turbine/generator, a 65 MW condensing steam turbine/generator, their
auxiliaries, plant electrical equipment, and instrumentation and control),
financed by the proposed Bank loan. Both single responsibility contracts would
include design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and commissioning.
Equipment for the EMS upgrading, financed by the proposed Bank loan, would be
grouped into two supply and installation contracts: one turn-key contract for
major EMS equipment, including the dispatch center's master stations, remote
terminal units and power plant/substation interface equipment; and the other for
associated telecommunication.   Each contract   includes all cost elements
necessary to supply a complete system, i.e., detailed design, hardware, software,
system integration and testing, installation and commissioning, and training.
5.20    All equipment and materials financed -.nder the proposed Bank loan will
be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement of Goods (May
1992). Main equipment for plant and EMS (about 46% of the total project cost)
will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) using Bank's
standard bidding documents , with bidder prequalification. Under ICE, goods
manufactured in Hungary may be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15
percent of the c.i.f. price or the import duty, whichever is lower. It is not
expected to have any Hungarian bids for main components of the project, since the
local manufacturing industry is not capable of supplying major equipment. Other
specialized equipment, such as environmental monitoring, measuring and testing
equipment, estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount of $3.0 million, will be procured by limited international bidding (LIB)
or international shopping (IS) both in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.   The site preparation,  civil works construction and auxiliary
electro-mechanical equipment are well within the capability of the local
contractors and manufacturers. These will be financed by MVM Rt and procured
following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.21    The consultants for engineerinig and construction management (paras 5.23
and 5.24), for the environmental program (paras 5.10 to 5.14) and for the
training components (paras 5.08 and 5.09) will be obtained following the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The project elements and their estimated
cost, and the procurement arrangements to be financed by the Bank are summarized
in Table 5.3. Local and foreign costs financed by MVM Rt and the (possible)
Supplier's credit are shown under N.B.F. (non-Bank financed). Details on the
procurement schedule are presented in Annex. 5.9.



- 26 -
Table 5.3: Procurement Arrangement
(US$ million equivalent)
_________________I                      ~~~~~PR0CUREIIENT ETH0D   |...    i_ _ _
ICe          OTHER                               C  ..F      OST
1. WJORKS                                           - '              -'  t:
1.1  Site preparation             |                                       0.6              0.6
1.2  Civil works                  |                                      20.9             20.9
2. GOWDS 
2.1  Gas cycle equipent                                                  52.4             52.4
2.2  Steam cycle equipment              53.1                                              53.1
(45.2)                                           (45.2)
2.3  Auxit fary electrical/
mechanical equipment                                                 10.9             10.9
2.4 Transmission equipment               7.6                                               7.6
(6.6)                                            (6.6)
2.5  Energy Management System for        18.7                                             18.7
National Dispatch Center           (15.1)                                           (15.1)
2.6  Energy Management System for       28.9                                              28.9
Regional Dispatch Centers          (17.1)                                           (17.1)
2.7 Associated telecwcnication           3.1                              3.8              6.9
(2.8)                                            (2.8)
2.8 Envirorment Equipment                                3.0                               3.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____   (3.0)     (3.0)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Engineering                                          7.3              6.2             13.5
(7.3)                            (7.3)
3.2 Construction management                              0.2              8.3              8.5
(0.2)                            (0.2)
3.3 Envirorwental program                                2.0              0.2              2.2
(2.0)                            (2.0)
3.4  Training                                            0.7              0.8              1.5
TOTAL  -   -   -  : --  I- --141A                 13.2     I      104.1            228.7
-   ----.2(86.8)  -_13.2 _ -                    - _100.0 _
I   lncLudes LIS and IS of about US  milion.
W  Non-Bank-Financed.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
5.22      All  procurement  documents  pertaining  to  bidding  packages  for  goods
financed by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $1.0 million equivalent will
be subject to the Bank's prior review; this covers the procurement of all major
procurement packages to be financed out of the Bank loan, representing 84 percent
of the Bank loan.



- 27 -
E. Project Prep%aration
ti)    Dunamenti Combined Cycle Coqeieration Plant
5.23    To ensure the procurement and  construction of the sub-project to be
implemented in an efficient manner and within the targeted schedule, MVM Rt will
retain the local consultants, ERBE and EROTERV, to be assisted by an
internationally experienced consultant firm, for the reflnement of conceptual
design, preparation of bidding documents, and evaluation of bids for the combined
cycle  cogeneration  plant.    According  to  the  agreed  concept  of  single
responsibility contract, the detailed design, equipment supply and execution of
erection, start-up, testing and commissioning will be the responsibility of the
contractor (manufacturer). However, as this plant would include two separate
single responsibility contracts, careful monitoring of their execution to ensure
proper interfacing is required by MVM Rt. It is considered that for this type
of project and particularly in the procurement area, local consulting capacity
needs strengthening. Therefore, besides assistance in the preparation of bidding
documents and bid evaluations, the internationally experienced consultant firm's
services will also focus on monitoring the interfacing of engineering and design
components of gas cycle, steam cycle and instrumentation and control, and
monitoring  the performance  testing and  commissioning the equipment.   To
facilitate interfacing, two stage procurement procedurel' will be introduced and
already during the first stage it is imperative to ensure consistency in
technical parameters and standards, coordination and interfacing of the two
cycles. Kennedy & Donkin Power Ltd. of UK has been appointed as the Consulting
Engineer, in accordance with Bank Guidelines (Terms of reference for these
services are included in Annex 5.10) and retroactive financing in an amount of
US$2.7 million has been requested by MVM Rt for these services which incurred
after April 1, 1993. With Bank's concurrence procurement actions are taken in
advance; the refinement of conceptual design and preparation of draft tender
documents for gas cycle has been completed and final agreement for gas cycle
contract is expected to be reached by Pebruary 1994.  Preparation of tender
documents for steam cycle is underway, and the bidding documents are expected to
be issued in April 1994. Key implementation dates are shown in Annex 5.11.
(ii)    EMS Uaaradinc
5.24    MVM Rt has retained Macro Corporation of USA to assist in design,
preparation of prequalification documents, tender documents, evaluating bids, and
in monitoring the testing and commissioning of equipment.-' Due to the complex
nature of the EMS contract and to ensure sound procurement practice, a two-stage
bidding procedure will be followed. The compatibility of master stations , RTUs
J The first stage involves technical bid only, without any reference to prices.
The second stage consists of (a) a revised technical bid incorporating all
changes required by MVM Rt to bring the technical bid up to an acceptable level;
and (b) the commercial bid.
A/ For project preparation, an amount of $.49 million has been provided under
technical assistance from Loan No. 2692-HU.   To complete the services an
additional amount of 0.75 million will be included under the proposed project.



- 28 -
and associated telecommunication must be ensured during procurement process,
without causing interfacing or communication problems. The prequalification of
bidders for major equipment has been completed, and the technical bid opening is
scheduled in March 1994. Key implementation dates are shown in Annex 5.12.
F. Project Imulementation
5.25    The overall management of the construction of the Dunamenti combined
cycle cogeneration plant, EMS upgrading, environmental program and training will
be carried out by MVM Rt who will be responsible for its execution, supervision,
management, coordination, and disbursement of funds. MVM Rt will be responsible
for submitting periodical progress reports on project implementation to the Bank.
Within MVM Rt, the Director for Development will be responsible for the overall
management, coordination and administration. For the operational direction of
the various components, team leaders, responsible to the Director, are already
being appointed.
5.26    Particular attention is given to proper staffing at the project site and
for this purpose MVM Rt is creating a site unit (Dunamenti Project Implementation
Team) which will manage the   construction of the Dunamenti combined cycle
cogeneration plant. The Team, with the support from MVM Rt and assistance from
international and local consultants, will be properly staffed to manage the
project.   During loan negotiations. aareement was reached on the Proiect
Manacrement Team's structure and its resoonibilities -for the v_arious tasks
elated to the Proiect's imlementation.  Given the complexity of the total
Project and each of its components, the Borrower adopted a matrix type of
organization to ensure that the various Project-related activities and
independent functions within the Borrower's organization are integrated
effectively. While the Project Management Team will exercise overall control of
the Project related activities (engineering, construction, and commissioning),
it will receive cross support from other departments of MNM Rt in selected areas,
including technical, legal, environmental, budget, accounting and cost control,
scheduling, manpower allocation, and general administration.   Purina loan
nectotiations. assurance has been obtained from the Borrower that it will
desianate key personnel to the Proiect Team in a timely manmer and that. durina
implementation. it will maintain the Prolect Manaaement Team with adeauate
authority.  responsibilities, resources and aualified staff.   The Project
organization Chart is in Annex 5.13. The detailed implementation schedule o;f the
Dunamenti component is presented in Annex 5.14. The target commissioning date
of the gas cycle would be December 31, 1995, and for the combined cycle
cogeneration plant, March 31, 1997.
5.27    Due  to  the complex nature of the EMS upgrading,  close overall
coordination and management is also essential for successful implementation. A
project management team has already been assigned to coordinate all EMS upgrading
activities at the national and regional dispatch centers. The project management
team leader (representing MVM Rt's management) is responsible for supervising
all the project activities during the specification, procurement, and
installation of the system.  The team leader chairs the major coordinating
meetings with all parties involved and is responsible for reaching agreement on
all aspects of the projects, execution. The team leader will be supported by a
standing (coordinating) committee, headed by the Director of NDC with all



- 29 -
participating regional power companies represented. He will also be supported
in the daily project management work by a project management group, headed by
NDC's technical manager, and by experts and local and foreign con.sultants. To
ensure the efficient implementation and subsequent utilization of the EMS, the
manufacturer of the system and the users (NDC and RDCs) would have to cooperate
closely. The detailed implementation schedule of the EMS component is presented
in Annex 5.15. The upgrading of NDC is scheduled to be completed by March 31,
1998; the construction and upgrading of all new RDCs are scheduled to be
completed by June 30, 1998 and the NDC/RDCs system integration will be completed
on December 31, 1998. An estimated schedule of annual contractual and other
payments is provided in Table 5.4.



- 30 -
Table 5.4: Im2lementation Schedule: Estimated Annual Contractual
and Other Payment
(US$ million equivalent)
RPROJECT YEAR t
POJEC ELBER9                    -     1        i              T   -         I   -  -         -
S=  ~~~~~~~~~WK
Site Preparation          -       - I-            0.3  I0.3   I-                      -0.6
Civil works                   J                  6.5       8.4      6.0     _ _               20.9
GOODS
Gas-cycle equipnent                               7.4     39.6      5.4                       52.4
Steam-cycle equipnent                             6.6     19.1     27.4                       53.1
_____________________     -       -        -      (6.6)   (18.0)   (20.6)                     (45.2)
Aux. Elect./mech.                                 1.2      7.1      2.6                       10.9
equipment
Transmission                                      1.0      1.7      4.9                       7.6
equipment                         -              (1.0)    (1.6)    (4.0)                     (6.6)
Energy Management                0.1     0.2      2.3      4.6      5.9      4.2     1.4      18.7
System for National                              (1.4)    (3.8)    (5.0)   (3.9)   (1.0)    (15.1)
Dispatch Center                                                              -
Energy Management                0.1     0.2     3.5       8.4      9.8      5.0     1.9      28.9
System for Regional                              (1.5)    (4.7)    (5.7)   (4.0)   (1.2)    (17.1)
Dispatch Centers
Associated                       0.1     0.2      2.0      2.6      2.0                       6.9
telecomnunication        -                       (0.9)    (1.1)    (0.8)     -P (2.8
Enviroiwnental                           2.0      1.0                                         3.0
equipment                               (2.0)   (1.0)                                     1  (3.0)
CONSULTANCIES
Engineering              0.2     4.4     3.0      2.8      2.2      0.8      0.1              13.5
(2.7)   (1.4)   (1.8)    (1.1)    (0.3)      -       -       (7.3)
Construction                     1.1     1.2      2.6      2.9      0.5      0.2              8.5
management               -(0.1)    (1)                               -(0.2)
Etvirorantal Program                     0.6      0.6      1.0                                2.2
(0.5)   (0.5)    (1.0)               -       -       (2.0)
Training                                 0.3      0.4      0.4      0.4                       1.5
_   (0.1)   (0.2)    (0.2)    (0.2)                      (0.7)
TOTAL                   1 0.2  | 5.8  I 7.7      38.21    98.3     65.7      9.5       3.3  1  228.7
MBankc-financed) /      |t(0.0)   (2.7)   (4.0)   (15.0)   (31.6)   (36.6) | (7.9)   (2.2) |(100.0
/ Based on calendar year.
2/ Figures in parenthesis represent Bank financing



- 31 -
G. Disbursea=n
5.28    The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a c.i.f.
basis; (b) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured
items; (c) 75 percent of the cost of other items procured locally; and (d) 100
percent for consulting services and for training. To facilitate disbursements
under this project, a Special Account will be established with an authorized
allocation of US$5 million, representing approximately four months of average
project expenditures. For expenditures pertaining to training and contracts for
goods and services valued at less than US$300,000 equivalent, reimbursement will
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Documentation supporting
such expenditures would be retained in the MVM Rt office and made available for
review by the Bank's supervision mission. Applications for Special Account
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdraw on equal 50
percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.29    Annex 5.16 presents the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as a standard profile of disbursements for the energy sector in Europe
and Central Asia Region.  The disbursement for the proposed project is close to
the regional standard disbursement profile. The Bank loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1999. The loan closing date is December 31, 1999.
H. Monitoring and Reportint
5.30    MVW Rt will furnish to the Bank regular half yearly project progress
reports by July 31 and January 31 of each year supplemented by brief reports to
be submitted by April 30 and October 31 each year, covering technical progress,
financial and other relevant matters. As part of overall reporting requirements,
a section on retail tariffs including comparisons of levels and structures with
the economic cost of supply, will be included. Additionally, brief summaries for
the environmental status of each power station included in the monitoring program
are to be provided.   Durinc loan necotiations acareement has been reached
regardinQ the timina and the content of the Procgress Reports.   The timely
implementation of the Project critically depends on adequate financial resources
being made available -rhen needed. To monitor this. annual financincr vlans for
the Proiect will be furnished to the Bank by October 31 of each calendar Year.
Details of Supervision Plan are in Annex 5.17.
I. Environmental Considerations
5.31    The proposed project was placed in Category A, and an Environmental
Assessment (EA) was submitted to the Bank prior to appraisal mission departure.
The EA was considered acceptable and of good quality. As required by OD 4.01,
Annex D, an English language summary of the EA (Annex 5.18) has been distributed
to the Executive Directors on November 16, 1992. After reviewing the EA, the
Bank provided MVM Rt comments regarding some issues. Most of the significant
issues raised were satisfactorily addressed during appraisal and filed with the
EA document, with the exception of the following:



- 32 -
5.32    Air quality and atmospheric emission estimates presented in the EA were
based on an assumed mix of oil and gas use and on assumed capacity utilization
for all generation units. Furthermore, estimates were only based upon the steam
generation component and therefore did not present the full range of
possibilities. To fully reflect this range, MVM Rt prepared additional series
of estimates prior to Loan Negotiations for the comprehensive presentation of the
project's environmental aspects. The results were reviewed by the Bank and it
was concluded that the area did not present any issue. The information was of
significant value in expediting environmental approval by local authorities.
5.33    The EA correctly identified the critical issues of both air and r...ise
pollution. For air pollution, both sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions
will be within the current Hungarian technical emission standards and World Bank
Guidelines for either gas or oil firing. Additionally, air quality standards for
sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides will meet Hungarian requirements and World
Bank Guidelines.   Currently, annual average levels for sulfur dioxide and
nitro%Jen oxides in the Dunamenti area (1990-1991 statistical data for
Szazhalombatta) are 5.6 Ag/NM3 and 7.3 ug/MM3 respectively, whereas Hungarian
standards and World Bank Guidelines are 70 pgINM3 and 100 Jg/NM3 respectively for
both pollutants. Maximum daily values (as required by both World Bank Guidelines
and Hungarian standards) and 30 minute maximum (as required by Hungarian
standards) are also indicated in the BA to be in compliance with all standards.
5.34    At Dunamenti, noise was identified as a potential issue requiring
mitigation. Generally, chief noise sources are the gas turbine, air intakes and
gas exhaust systems. A mitigation plan was included in the project design and
it is estimated that these measures would ensure acceptable noise levels; for
4dditional assurances, instrumentation for noise measurement is included in the
project to monitor the adequacy of the mitigating measures taken.
5.35    Hungary is signatory to both the Helsinki Protocol and Sofia Agreement
regarding reduction of tranaboundary pollution from sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
oxides respectively (see para 2.17). While MVM Rt is only one of several sectors
responsible for these emissions, it is doing more than its share to assure
compliance. A summary of both agreed upon reductions and MVM Rt projections for
emissions is presented below in Table 5.5.
Table S.5: Pollutant Emissions (kilotons/year)
Base                         Coapliance         W Rt
Description   Year    INN Rt     lational     Year                          i
Sulfur Dfoxide  1980       654.7     1632.8     1993         458.0      400.0
Nitrogen Oxides    1987    59.1       2i6.0     1994          59.1      40.0
Sulfur dioxide emission reductions have been achieved by the phase-out of older,
less efficient fossil-fueled boilers and increased utilization of the Paks
nuclear power station. Consistent with this policy, the Operational Aareement
between MVM Rt and Dunamenti Rt will include suitable irovision to initially
outtina in "cold storage" and subseauentlv decommissionina the old and oollutincr



- 33 -
DMAD DlAnt-at _Dunamenti when G2 plant start to onerate.  Additionally, some
smaller steam units have been retrofitted with fluidized bed boilers, resulting
in both sulfur dioxide emission reductions (60-80%) and nitrogen oxides emission
reduction (30-40%). Further nitrogen oxides emission reductions (about 50%) are
to be achieved by an overall MVM Rt low NO, burner replacement program which
began last year with the Dunamenti F module.



- 34 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. The Accounting and Auditing Framework
6.01    In recognition that international standards in accounting and audit
legislation, institutions, and practices are vital for achieving the objectives
of economic reform, improvements are being introduced in Hungary. There is a new
Company Act with compulsory disclosure/audit requirements based on generally
accepted accounting principles, and the Balance Sheets, Income Statements and
other financial reports of growing numbers of companies are prepared and
published on these basis. Financial information is increasingly being adapted
to international practices with the aim to improve commercial control,
performance, and usefulness for outside investors as well as internal management.
There is a growing number of accounting firms of international repute with
offices in Hungary,  and have trained accountants who are instrumental in
introducing internationally acceptable accounting systems and providing 'on the
job' training to local professionals. The changes and improvements during the
last two years were also considerable within MVM Rt and its subsidiaries. The
accounting system has been moved to international standards, costing and
budgeting is being upgraded and increasingly used as management tool and proper
internal audit work has started. To support these improvements the project's
human resource development and training component will be instrumental. Durinci
loan necrotiations acrreement was reached that MVM Rt will forward to the Bank each
year. not later than July 15 after the end of the financial year. annual
financial statements audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
tocrether with the auditor's report on. inter alia. (a) the financial statements;
(b) oleration of all accounts includina those related to the Prolect such as the
Proiect Account. the SDecial Account and Statements of ExDenditures (SOBs): and
(c) the eligibility of the resource made on the basis of SOE's for reimbursements
by the Bank. Also acreement was reached that MVM Rt will forward to the Bank
every Year by March 31 its investment Rrocrram tocaether with the financincr Dlan
coverinca the next three years. The Operational Agreement between MVM Rt and
Dunamenti Rt (see para 4.01) extends these obligations to Dunamenti Rt as well.
B. Past Financial Performance
6.02    An overview of the pre-1993 financial situation is presented below,
details are in Annex 6.1. However it should be noted that during the last two
years there were drastic organizational changes in the power sector, including
regrouping the generation, transmission and distribution functions and changing
considerably the relations between the various entities. One of the effects of
the changes was that some of the activity profiles of the companies were altered,
largely destroying the possibility of historical comparisons of physical,
institutional or financial performances. This, combined with the changes in the
evolution in the accounting practices, with the recent corporatization and the
concurrent asset revaluation, makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible,
to reconstruct historical financial statements for meaningful comparisons or as
a basis for projections.
6.03    MXV   Rt  (previously MVMT):    During  tht  five years  before  1993,
electricity sales were between 30, 000 to 32,000 GWh per annum, providing over 83%
of MVMT's total operating revenues. From 1988 to 1992 the company's operating



- 35 -
revenues increased by 60% to 160 billion Ft;  in the same period operating
expenses increased by 116% to 149 billion Ft. Between 1988 and 1991 the annual
net operating incomes varied between 28 billion Ft to 31 billion Ft, in 1992 it
dropped to 11 billion Ft and NVMT's annual profits (after income tax) were in its
best year (1991) 11 billion Ft, representing about 6.7% of the total revenues.
The lower operating income of 1992 was basically caused by substantially
increased depreciation, resulting from the first fixed asset revaluation in about
30 years. Working ratios from 1988 to 1990 stayed at about 63%, and increased
to 75% in 1991 and 1992, mainly due to increases in fuel cost and the cost of
importing electricity from the former USSR. Historically MVMT's borrowings were
modest, and the successor MvM Rt and its subsidiaries, did not inherit any
substantial long-term financial debts. The debt equity ratios between 1988 and
1992 were around 4%. Investment programs were largely financed from internally
generated funds and contributions from the government budget.
6.04    DMumentL Rt:  Between 1989 and 1992, revenues from electricity sale
(exclusively to MVMT) represented more than 75% of total revenues, and the
remaining was from heat sales to a nearby refinery and to the local community.
During the same period, both total ol.erating revenues and total operating costs
increased by almost 100%. Fuel represented the major cost item; the share of
fuel in total operating costs was 73% in 1992. In the past, Dunamenti had very
low debt service burdens because almost all of its investments were financed
through funds allocated by MVMT. During the last three years, net income was
almost zero; however, this cannot be used to judge the profitability of
Dunamenti.   It was mainly due to the low levels of the transfer price,
arbitrarily established by MVMT, taking advantage of the fact that Dunamenti was
among the most efficient plants in the power system, and therefore could afford
to indirectly support other, less efficient plants.
6.05    The reported past operating results for both MVMT and Dunamenti are
somewhat misleading. For example, since early 1960s, the fixed assets have not
been revalued on an appropriate techno/commercial basis. Consequently the asset
values in the Balance Sheets were non-representative, and the annual depreciation
costs charged against the revenues were too low to permit sufficient fund
accumulation for replacing assets at the end of their useful life. An asset
revaluation took place in December 1991 and with a more than threefold increase,
established a realistic asset value basis, which will have an impact on the
future financial results.  To ensure appropriate cost recovery, durinc loan
neuotiations acTreement was reached with MVM Rt to maintain the aopropriate values
of the fixed assets in the books in accordance with methodolocrv satisfactory to
the Bank, The Operational Agreement (para 4.01) will extend this obligation to
Dunamenti Rt as well.
C. Financial Projections
6.06    One of the objectives of the Project is to safeguard the financial
stability of MNM Rt and Dunamenti Rt while assuring appropriate power generating,
transmission and distribution capacities for the country. In the past, the cost
of investment programs, cost increases were not necessarily concurrent with
appropriate adjustments in retail and bulk tariffs. The lack of cost recovery
often lead to undesirable reliance on government funds in tLe form of operational
subsidies or non-economical investment support or in the form of subsidizing



- 36 -
group(s) of customers. In the future, the undesirable reliance on government
funds should be avoided; assuring adequate operating margins and cash generating
capacity for the sector companies. The financial targets (paras 6.10 and 6.13)
aim to ensure this.
6.07    Based on the projected power generation, transmission and distribution
levels for the years between 1993 and 2000, financial forecasts were prepared in
constant values.   The projections reflect future operations including those
associated with the proposed project as well as with other plans, investment
programs and renewals, all aiming at capacity and efficiency improvements and
accepted as feasible programs for the forecasted period. Sensitivity of the
forecast performance to changes in costs and revenues have been tested (para
6.11). A summary of the forecast assumptions is in Annex 6.2.
(i)     m    Rt
6.08    Between 1993 and 2000, the total operating revenues of MVM Rt are
expected to grow by some 41% in real term from 160 billion 1993 Pt to 225 billion
Ft. Bulk of the revenues, about 80%, would derive from supplying electricity;
heat sales account for about 11% and the remaining revenues would come from other
activities such as construction. Electricity sales to residential consumers are
projected to have an increasing share from total electricity sales, 28% in 1993
and 45* in 2000. The government's plan is to adjust electricity tariff toward
economic levels gradually by 1996 (see para 2.22). The average heat price is
also expected to increase gradually.
6.09    Total operating expenses are expected to increase by 24% or 36 billion
between 1993 and 2000.   The largest single cost item remains to be fuel,
representing about 40t of cash operating costs. Depreciation would represent an
increasing part of total operating costs, 19% in 1993 and 27% in 2000. Annual
interest payments will remain at a relatively stable level of about 2 billion Ft
between 1993 and 1998, and expected to increase to over 4 billion Ft in 1999 and
almost 8 billion Ft in year 2000. This is due to increased borrowings to finance
the investment program including a new base load plant. Since the estimated 41t
increase of operating revenues will outpace the increase in operating costs by
16%, operating income will grow from about 14 billion in 1993 to more than 40
billion in 1997 and thereafter. However, the increased operating income would
have to be appropriated, at an increasing rate, to (a) create reserves for Paks
nuclear power plant's decommissioning (1.6 billion Ft in 1993, 9 billion in
2000); and (b) dividend payments (1.5 billion in 1994, 7 billion in 2000).
During the period between 1996 and 2000, the annual retained earnings will always
be over 4 billion. Details are in Annex 6.3.
6.10    To ensure the timely availability of funds and continued financial
stability, durina loan neqotiations aareement was reached with MVM Rt that it
will take all steDs necessary to maintain: (i) annual ratios, where total
revenues related to the sum of total onerating expenses and the amount by which
debt service recuirements exceed the nrovision for depreciation (break-even
ratio), not less than 0.98 in 1994, 0.99 in 1995 and 1.1 in 1996 and thereafter:
(ii) the internally aenerated annual cash surnluses from 1994 will not be less
than SS* of the three years moving averaae canital exyenditure: and (iii) debt
service coveraaes (internally aenerated cash surnluses in relation to servicinA
lona-term debts) will not be lower than 1.9 in 1994 and 2.5 in each year
thereafter.  The nroaress towards achievina the annual targets mentioned above



- 37 -
will be monitored on a semi-annual basis and if it anieared that. usina a
combination of actual and iroiected data, the achievement of the annual tarrets
would lag. MVM Rt immediately would take all necessary actions to ensure
achievement of the targets.
6.11    The major risks that could affect MVM Rt's capability to support the
proposed project and maintain its financial viability could be adverse
macroeconomic conditions. For example, financial strengths of the MVM group of
companies would erode if: (i) due to economic recessions the distribution
companies could not collect revenues from the customers on time and, therefore,
in turn would not be able to pay for the electricity purchased from MVM Rt; and
(ii) due to inflation, the real values of the contractual tariffs between the
generating companies and MNM Rt (and in turn between the distribution companies
and MVM Rt) would erode or adjustments to maintain the revenue levels in real
terms would be delayed and/or be insufficient to cover cost increases. For
example, if only 50t of the proposed tariff program (para 2.22) would be
realized, the accumulated net income from 1994 to 2000 would be 64 billion (about
66% less than projected) but still sufficient to cover the decommissioning
provisions although short to meet the dividend obligations. Also, if MVM Rt. Is
annual cash operating costs between 1994 and 2000 were to be 10% higher than
projected, without corresponding tariff adjustments, while MVM Rt. would not have
liquidity problems, the annual net operating incomes would be 70% lower than
expected. In this case, interests and taxes would be still covered, but the net
income would not be sufficient to pay dividends and providing reserves for the
decommissioning of the nuclear plant.
(ii)    Dunamenti Rt
6.12    As one of the most efficient power plants in Hungary, Dunamenti Rt is
expected to continue its solid performance and remain profitable in the future.
Total electricity sales are expected to grow by 42% between 1993 and 2000,
resulting in an increase of about 68% of total operating revenues from 18 billion
Ft in 1993 to 30 billion Ft in 2000. During the same period, total operating
expenses are expected to grow by about 46% from 16 billion Ft to 24 billion Ft.
Fuel cost will account for about 74* to 76%, by far the largest portion of the
total operating costs. Dunamenti Rt is expected to generate profits of about 1.6
to 2.6 billion Ft per year between 1994 and 2000 and this would be equivalent to
7% to 9* of the annual revenues.   The debt coverage ratios and ratios of
internally generated cash to capital expenditures remain at comfortable levels
during the forecasted period. Detailed projections are in Annex 6.4.
6.13    To ensure its continued financial stability and integrity and its
ability to fulfill ro-lect related financial obligations, durincr Negotiations
aFreement was reached that the Onerational Acareement between MVM Rt and Dunamenti
Rt (see Para 4.01). as a condition of loan effectiveness  will oblige Dunamenti
Rt to take all steps necessary to maintain (i) annual ratios of cash ooeratina
costs to oneratina revenues (working ratio) not more than 0.8 in 1994 and
thereafter: and lii) annual ratios where total revenues related to the sum of its
total oneratinc expenses and the amount by which debt service reouirements exceed
the Drovision for depreciation (break even ratio) not less than 1.1 in 1994 and
1.2 in 1995 and thereafter.  The pro_ress towards achievinc the annual targets
mentioned above will be monitored on a semi-annual basig and if it anneared that.
usinci a combination of actual and orolected data. the achievement of the annual



- 38 -
targets would lag. Dunamenti Rt immediately would take all necessary actions to
ensure achievement of the targets. Dunamenti Rt.' s financial viability largely
rests on the prices for electricity sales to MVM Rt. and on its own operational
efficiency. For example, if only 50% of the projected increases of electricity
transfer price for the period of 1994 to 2000 would be realized, then Dunamenti
Rt. would have its accumulated net profits reduced by 63% and would fail to meet
the financial targets specified above.  Also if the annual cash operating costs
were to be 10% higher in the period, then without corresponding price increases
the accumulated net profits would ba 64% lower and again the financial targets
would not be met. It should be noted however that Dunamenti at., in both cases,
would still have about 0.85 working ratios and 1.1 break even ratios, in each
year during the forecasted period.



- 39 -
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.  Relation to Policy Obiectives
7.01    The Project would contribute to the government's policy objectives in
the enerfy sector (para 2.10), which are supported by the Bank.   The power
ceneratin- component would: (i) increase electricity generation thereby reducing
dependence on possibly unreliable electricity imports from the former Soviet
Union and permitting retirement of old, costly and highly polluting coal power
stations; (ii) increase greatly energy efficiency through the use of cogeneration
and combined-cycle operation; (iii) extend the lifetime of heat supply
facilities; and (iv) provide the above benefits at low capital cost and with
short lead times. The EMS component would: (i) improve power system reliability,
(ii) increase efficiency in operations thereby reducing fuel costs; and (iii)
facilitate the subsequent interconnection of the Hungarian electricity grid with
the UCPTE thereby diversifying Hungary's sources of electricity supply. The
environmental comonent would: (i) contribute to improved emission measurement,
monitoring and control with resultant air quality improvement; (ii) develop a
least-cost approach to pollution control in the sector; and (iii) strengthen MVM
Rt's institutional capability to address and incorporate environmental issues
into project analysis. The human resource manacrement comoonent would contribute
to the establishment of a modernized management system, a basic prerequisite for
successful corporate operation.
B. Economic Evaluation
7.02    Dunamenti (Cocreneratincr Plant) Comvonent. A two-fold approach was taken
to evaluate this component.   First,  an updated national least-cost power
generation investment program was calculated in order to determine the economic
merits of Dunamenti G2 plant and its optimum timing. Second, an economic rate
of return was calculated for the component. Other Comoonents. Calculation of
a separate economic rate of return for the EMS would be highly artificial and
impractical given the many imponderables concerning the behavior of operators of
the dispatching system under a large variety of possible configurations of
electricity demand and supply at different times of the day and year. However,
benefits would include, inter alia, fuel savings, reduced spinning reserve
requirements, better generation scheduling, and avoided outages. Similarly,
calculation of economic rate of return for the human resource management and
environment components would not be warranted.
C. Least-Cost Power Generation Investment
7.03    Assumotions.  The least-cost investment program for Hungary was carried
out using the WASP III model. The demand projection used was the low version
discussed in para 3.12 yielding a total electricity consumption of 37 TWh by year
2000. This is a conservative projection. MVM Rt's planned plant retirement
program involving 1150 MW of capacity by 2000 was assumed, along with a reduction
of import capacity to 123 MW in 1995. Fuels and imported electricity were priced



- 40 -
at economic cost (c. i. f. import prices in most cases).   Foreign costs were
converted to Forints using the 1992 exchange rate. A real discount rate of 12*
was assumed. An acceptable list of candidates was considered. They include:
Dunamenti G2, three other combined-cycle cogeneration plants, open-cycle
combustion turbines (160 MW), large combined-cycle plants (450 MW); dual-fired
(gas, heavy fuel oil) steam turbines (150 MW); an independent combined-cycle
power station location at a gas field using low-pressure gas (125 MW), two
fluidized bed plants (that would be constructed at existing coal power stations
(70 MW and 150 MW respectively), a coal power station using imported coal (550
MW), and a lignite power station using indigenous lignite (600 MW). Ripple
control was neither included in the existing system nor explicitly treated as a
candidate. Detailed assumptions for the WASP III are in the Project File.
7.04    Two separate optimizations were calculated: an unconstrained version in
which reserve margins were allowed to be determined by the cost of unserved
energy (fixed at US$0.6/kWh); and a version in which reserve margins were allowed
to be determined by constraining the maximum loss-of-load probability to 2% in
the years 1996-7 and 1% for subsequent years (the it was chosen on the
expectation that such a level would be acceptable for connection to UCPTE). In
both cases Dunamenti 62 entered the least-cost solution at the earliest possible
time allowed (1996 for the combustion turbine alone and 1997 for the full
combined-cycle unit, see Annex 3.7).  To test the robustness of Dunamenti's
choice, a calculation was made of the effects of postponing Dunamenti G2 by two
years while simultaneously postponing the retirement of a coal power station
(Tiszapalkonya, the one in least need of retirement), and allowing for additional
electricity imports. The present value of the additional operations, maintenance
and electricity import costs is estimated to be 2.8 times as large as the
reduction in present value of the capital cost attributable to delaying Dunamenti
G2 plant.
D. Rate of Return
7.05    Assumntions.  For purposes of the calculation of the economic rate of
return for Dunamenti G2, the unit was assumed to operate for 6500 hours per year
and produce annually 3120 GWh of electricity and 2555 TJ of heat. The benefits
based on willingness to pay consist of electricity sales, valued at the 1992
average revenue of MVM Rt of 5.3 US cents/Kwh (the highest annual average
achieved up to now), and heat sales to the Refinery, valued at the 1993 price of
US$3.67/GJ. The costs consist of: investment expenditures in Dunamenti G2;
allowance for investments to replace old transmission and distribution
facilities; fuel costs; losses in transmission and distribution at the 1990 level
of 10.9* of net generation; operating and maintenance costs for Dunamenti G2, and
in transmission and distribution. Annual depreciation, measured as a constant
percentage of assets, which were newly revalued in 1992, was used in place of
average incremental cost as a measure of the investment cost in transmission and
distribution since the system will have surplus capacity for many years to come.
Fuel was valued at the economic cost of gas to MVM power stations, equal to
US$2.71/GJ. Foreign costs were converted at the corresponding year's rate. A
summary of the calculations is in Annex 7.1.
7.06    The internal rate of return was calculated to be 16%. Sensitivity tests
were carried out with respect to the investment cost, the price of fuel and



- 41 -
revenues. The changes in the values of those parameters needed to reduce the
rate of return to 12% (equal to the estimated social discount rate) are as
follows:
26% increase in investment costs; or
22% increase in fuel costs; or
9% reduction in revenue, which could be caused by lower demand or
reduced hours of availability of the unit.
E. Risks
7.07    The main risks related to Dunamenti G2 include: possible delays in
obtaining licenses; natural gas shortage or higher import price; reduced demand
for heat by the refinery; and reduced availability of the plant. These risks are
being minimized by: completion of satisfactory comprehensive environmental
assessments with public involvement and securing the necessary licenses for
construction; providing for dual-firing (natural gas and gas oil) capability at
Dunamenti G2 to cope with short-term emergency gas supply shortfalls (however
this solution would carry with it minor incremental operating and environmental
costs); and supporting actions to improve access to foreign gas such as the
contemplated pipeline connection to the Western European network. In addition,
since there exists substantial dual-firing (gas/heavy fuel oil) steam turbine
capacity at the Dunamenti and Tisza power stations, MVM Rt has considerable scope
for diverting gas from other units to Dunamenti G2 in times of shortage. A
reduction in electricity demand is unlikely since the high efficiency of
Dunamenti G2 would ensure that this unit is given preference in the plant loading
order. A reduction in heat demand would have little adverse effect since heat
revenues are forecasted to be only lt of total benefits and provision is being
made to permit the unit to produce electricity even in the absence of heat
demand. The Dunamenti Power Station Company will follow careful procedures
during commissioning and operation of the new unit to ensure that its
availability conforms to expectations.



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
S.01    During loan neaotiations the following agreements were reached:
(A)   With the Governmient to exchange views, at the request of the Bank
or the Government, regarding the governmentIs electricity pricing
policy and its implementation. Also the Government agreed that
as long as it exercises control over setting electricity prices,
it will enable MVM Rt to fulfill its obligations under the Loan
Agreement including compliances with the financial covenants (para
2.23).
(B)   With MM Rt:
(i)    not later than October 31st of each calendar year, submit
for Bank concurrence the next year's detailed programs and
TORs for management training, technology transfer, and for
training in procurement and other functions (para 5.09);
(ii)   not later than October 31st of each calendar year obtain
Bank  concurrence  for  the  details  of  the  yearly
environmental training program (para 5.11);
(iii)  to sign the contract for the gas-cycle equipment as a
condition for issuing the bidding documents for the steam
cycle equipment (para 5.17);
(iv)   on the structure composition of the Project Management
Team and to maintain, during the Project implementation
period, the Project Management Team with adequate
authority, resources and qualified staff (para 5.26);
(v)    to furnish detailed progress reports to the Bank by July
31 and January 31 each year, supplemented by brief reports
by April 30 and October 31 each year covering technical,
financial and other Project implementation related matters
(para 5.30);
(vi)   not later than October 31st of each calendar year, to
submit to the Bank for review annual financing plans for
the Project (para 5.30);
(vii)  not later than July 15 after the end of each financial
year, to submit annual audit reports covering financial
statements, accounts and other relevant data related both
to the Project and the MVM Rt (para 6.01);
(viii) each year by March 31, to submit a three-year (rolling)
investment program together with the relevant financing
plan (para 6.01);



- 43 -
(ix)   to maintain the values of the fixed assets in the accounts
in accordance with methodologies satisfactory to the Bank
(para 6.05); and
(x)    to take all steps necessary to maintain: (a) annual ratios
of total revenues related to total operating expenses plus
the excess of debt service over depreciation not less than
0.98 in 1994, 0.99 in 1995 and 1.1 in 1996 and thereafter;
(b) internally-generated annual cash surpluses not less
than 55% of (three years moving average) capital
expenditure; and (c) internally-generated cash surpluses
in relation to servicing long-term debts not lower than
1.9 in 1994, 2.5 in 1995 and thereafter. These targets
would be monitored on a semi-annual basis and MVM Rt would
take immediate remedial actions as necessary to keep its
performance in line with the targets (para 6.10).
(C)   With Dunamenti Rt:
(i)    to initially place the BEAD plant at Dunamenti in cold
storage and subsequently decommissioning it when the G2
plant starts to operate (para 5.35);
(ii)   not later than July 15 after the end of each financial
year to submit annual audit reports covering financial
statements, accounts and other relevant data related both
to the Project and Dunamenti Rt (para 6.01);
(iii)  to maintain the appropriate values of the fixed assets in
the accounts in accordance with methodologies satisfactory
to the Bank (para 6.05); and
(iv)   to take all necessary steps to maintain: (a) annual ratios
of cash operating costs to operating revenues of not more
than 0.8; and (b) annual ratios of total revenues related
to total operating expenses plus the excess of debt
service over depreciation not less than 1.1 in 1994 and
1.2 in 1995 and thereafter.   These targets would be
monitored on a semi-annual basis and Dunamenti Rt will
take immediate remedial actions as necessary to keep its
performance in line with the targets (para 6.13).
8.02    As a Condition of Loan Effectiveness MVM Rt and Dunamenti Rt will enter
into contractual arrangements (Operational Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank
for the implementation, ownership, financial and other responsibilities relevant
to the project (para 4.01). The agreements reached with Dunamenti Rt (para
8.01, C above) will be incorporated in the Operational Agreement.



- 44 -
8.03    With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent, to be
repaid over a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace at the Bank standard
variable interest rates to the Hungarian Power Companies Ltd (MYM Rt), with the
guarantee of the Republic of Hungary.



- 45 -                            ANNEX 1.
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
List of Materials In the Project Files
1.    Hierarchical EMS/SCADA System, Feasibility Study Report, Macro
Corporation, October 1991
2.    Dunamenti Combined Cycle Cogeneration Plant, Feasibility Study, ERBE &
EROTEV, September 1992
3.    Environmental Assessment Report, MVM Rt, June 1992
4.    Least-Cost Investment Program, MVM Rt, September 1992
5.    MVM Rt Business Plan, 1993-1995, MVM Rt, October 1992
6.    Financial Statements, 1988-1992, MVM Rt
(f)   Income Statements, MVMT
(1i)   Balance Sheets, MVMT
(1ii)   Fund Flow Statements, MVMT
(iv)  Income Statements, 1989-1992, Dunamenti Company
(v)   Balance Sheets, 1989-1992, Dunamenti Company
(vi)  Fund Flow Statemnents, 1989-1992, Dunamenti Company
(vii)  Auditor's Reports. 1988-1992, MVMT
7.    Summary of Generation Expansion Plan, November 1992
8.    Summary of Environmental Assessment, November 1992
9.    Supplementary Air Quality Impact Analysis, February 1993
10.   District Heating Master Plan Study and Assessment, Szazhalombatta - DEC
November 1992
11.   Draft BiD on Amendment of Act XVIII/1 991 on Accounting - 1993
12.   Draft BPil (No. 12537) - Gas Supply 1993 (in Hungarian)
13.   Draft BiD (No. 12538) - Electricity 1993 (n Hungarian)
14.   MVM Rt Consolidated Business Plan for 1992 - April 1992 (in Hungarian)
15.   MVM Rt Rnandal Model - May 1992 (in Hungarian)
16.   Study on Restructuing Regulation and Privatization of MVMT - C & L
November 1991
17.   Restructuring (Corporadzatadn) Model of MVMT - December 1990 in
Hungarian)
18. Hungarian Energy Policy - Ministry of Industry and Trade - 1991



- 46 -
ANNE( 2.1
KURAY
Epkm f P         _RM Sr
Pnduedn        17456   17           5.90  14.64   14.50
Cod             7.98  7.34  6.94   6.30   4.4B    4.62
__ _ _ON  1_ .99   2.00   2.03   1.96   1.88    2.46
Naaural Oa      4.03  4.31   5.09   5.00   3.81    3.83
Nuclerw                              1.40   3.57    3.57
0O1w Ibnd. NGU    0.56   0.62   1.06   1.24   0.92    0.02
Imports          9.62  11.68  15.36  15.90  15.49   13.63
Exports          0.72  0.57   1.30   2.30   1.69    1.17
Stock buildbi    0.04  -0.44  -0.45  40.30  40.15   40.26
Tota supply     23.50 2.   28.73  29.10 [28.29   27.22
Imirm:    AEEF for 1973-1990, MfT for 1991. The caude o estInma
for 1991 indudes NGL and the estma for other excludes
NOL
January 1993



- 47 -
ANNE 2.2
HU.Rf
ENERGY AND ENVOONM    POl
(Mtoe)
15.9    16.6    16.2    16.7   16.8
coal                   6.3      6        8     6.7    5.2
oR                     2.8     2.8    2L       2.7    3.2
Gas                    2.3      5      4.9     4.9    4.7
_ud__w                 1.4    1.7      LS      3.6    3.
Hydto                    i    Q.0  .05    0.04    0.011 OAI
himom           ~~15.9   16.6    16.6    16.2   15.9
Coal                  L8       88        2     2.3    7.
on                    1.1      9.3      10     8.4    7.1
uas                    2.4    3.7      3.5     4.3    4.6
Ionite                 1.1     16       .1     1.2    1.1
Ebart                 -2.93    2.6    -2.3    -2.3    -2
Stock Chanes       _0.3    -0.2        0.6    0.01     0.2
Totrl Enwy            29.1    29.3    31.1    30.7   30.3
| Cod             ~~~~~8.6  8.4   8A       8.3    7.2
tON                   1Q.      9.6    10.9    8.7    2.1
an                     7.9     8.4     8.4 7.2 4.4
Nuowe                  1.4    1.7      2.      1 3.5    3.6
Hydro                 Q.6    2.0 5     2.54   0.02    0.01
EoEnry                90.      0.9    Q0.9       1       1
Total Fi    I a       b    A 22.2     21.9     22.4    22.2   21.8
ndusJu 8a1                     8.9     8.9     8.4    8.9
kmo wul 1t             1.6    1.6      1.6     1.9    1.6
Chwn o- Pobdm.         2.9      3      2.9     2.4    2.9
lot wc fedtocs)       *.8    1.8      1.8     1.5    1.9
Nontou MoW           0.2   0Q3       0.1     0.5    0.6
NnLUtel LMh0*          0.7   0Q7       0.7       1     09
Ohw Indus              3.5    3.3      3.6     Ls      L7
Trapwt                  2      2.1     2.2     3.2    2.8
lot whic od)        1.5     1.6     1.7     L7      2.3
A_uw                   1.6    1.6      1.7      1.4    1.3
COMlolll                                       1.C    1.6
R_dS             @~~~~~.3  6     6.4     6.8    6.4
Urpe_t                 2.6     2.6     2.5    0.6      0.8
Non_so Vz            0.7    0.7      0.7     0.3    0.2
MudndEmn Agon s d BakMkso
Jwww 1993



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.3
ENER13Y AND FNylllOl|    OJW
I~ n
5a9genoPCs          .423
Imports              2.02      6.01       4.97                          0.63         13.63
Exports             4.002     -1.15                                                  -1.17
Stock Changes        40.34     0.57       0.03                                       0.26
Total Primary Energy  6.25     7.89       8.83      3.57      u.02      0.63    0    27.22
ElectIcty Generion   -2.1      4.49       4.084     -3.57     40.02     2.33         4.69
District Heating    -0.67     40.43       -1.5                                2L04   4.56
CHIP Plants          0.15     40.19       -0.21                         0.25  0.16  40.14
Petoeum eFbdnerbs             40.03                                                 40.03
Own Use and Losse    0.09     40.44       40.45                         -0.7  40.64  -2.32
TotP FI  pnsuntlon   3.27      5.31        5.83       0         0       2.51   1.57  19.49
Total bInury         0.68      1.42        2.84       0         0       O.9    0.4   6.3
Iron and Sted         0.6      0.08       0.34                          0.13  0.08   1.13
Non-Ferrous Metals   0.06      0.09       0.08                          0.14  0.01   0.38
Petrochemicals and             0.76        0.69                         0.21   0.23   1.89
Chem.
(of which Petrochemn           0.53       0.35                                       0.88
Feed)
Other Industies      0.11      0.49        1.73                         0.48  0.07   2.88
Tnsport                        229                                      0.08         2.37
of which Road                  2.2                                                    2.2
Total Other Sectos   2.57      2.26       2L99                          1.47   1.17  10.46
of which Resideal    2.29      1.11        1.77                         0.84  0.87   6.88
Non-Energy Use       0.02      0.34                                                  0.36
Memo ham
Ele. Grdh)             .4      2.8         4.9      13.7       0.2                    30
sm:  Mrr mid ikm MIons
January 1993



- 49 -
D.W~~~~~~~~~~.
ENRG AND ENV OWNAME     RJECIr
In. _ D     8nad aid Su&lv In 1991 AND
(Mtoe)
.....   .    r  ~~ ~~~~~~~. . ......
ICod          I4.22  12.4r
03 _          _ 1.82       1.43
aural Oan        3.83       3.
Nucled           3.51       3.2
Othor            1.06       0.1
Net lmporw      12.46      16.86
03 _ 4.868 8.67_
Nt    Gan        4.97       6.21
*E0ctr*           0.63       0.58
am-     n        0.2
Total
u   TheGvwmnmentof e Hugaan Repubic. b,fourdnfor h Paimun    n Te
Hngrn Energ PWcy". Judy 1. 1992.
Januar June 1993



- 50 -
~~hILHWG^.R
E^DR%RNMf El'_
Avama Flm. mi GMs conowmai  far Bacdtimv ed Niatua Gs. August 19
| Hlh voltogo                  3.91 ji           3.53 a/             1.11
Modium voltae                 4.89 1             4.68 2/             1.07
Low voltgo                    6.52*1            6.451                1.01
Households                    4.63 I             6.45               0.72_
Dbuton compani                 226               22641               1.00
MVM                            236               2261 /              1.04
____ 1_m hndu_M b             312 hi             27911               1.12
anord purpose       _          356               283 4               1.26
_      _h_k_s_ _265                              327t1               0.81
at    Depends on load factt  of ndnvidual customers: weighted aveages. The household prie
Is for the second block.
ki    Weghted vera.
jI    Wihtd avae logn marginad cost.
d1    Imp  price plus averg Uaport and Wsora  cost.
a            Prieo dastrbuton compan  plus mrgins desin  by MIT to ens  that the ditbudon
companie oan % of revadued cpta h 1992. The MT estimaed mrgins for 1995 wer
conveted to 1902 lvdl by removigt cumaeWd Inflation ftrom 1992-5 of 27%.
:ws         MIT. MIM Rt and Bank Mision
January 1993



- 51 -
AM 3. 1
HUNGARY
EwNEREGY AND ENVIRONMEN PROJECT
Power Sector - Organiation and Ownership
State AsSet
lunit1ipa                           S'to  rvperty
COapfY Ltd.                                                                    AIdeY
(SWIC)                               SoVeoCents                               (SPA)
9oz ~~~~~~~~~~~1491
a,
generat Wn               ishtrfbultt
taksyl E Rtt           litu Rt
u" AT                                       Elda_tf E at           Ohdsa St
Mitral E At            Otqtt Rt
50S            Pakst I At             "das at
Prcsf E At             bust at
Tissal E Rt            Vitats Rt
Total Asset Value                                 Vertes E at            evit Rt
302 Bll Ft.
Cwonvntfi E t
Total Asset Value 524 Bill Ft.
Note: Percentages represent the extent of ownership.
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
January, 1993



EAD mum
_ ~~~~~I
d_Hwhi*r Cm  _._.. dIUAs
f1W                                                   IS) _               ____5__6_             m       ___I___               1"      111)-£9.l10)1I0
logo      GM4           in@             692           GM          193           6221           1222            1F4U            1617          go
19918     elSe          19S             S91           4993        tSl           6184           Ina-            64tZ          51i73            U4
1997    G672            212             6424          6600        203           6620           148             Om             Nu
t#lS G62                212             GM            6640 m                    674      3 t    461            7t98          GM              22 U
1984      6508          212             7166          6942        203           7075            1650          m6             son             36
19 810                 212             G                         203           nel            1tUt            7709           s              31
199 #      468          212             Sos80        8Sul         203           8S9             1482           8076           0240           2 
t987      e7t2          2t2             62GM203                                  _0             t708           Om8            _313
1988      am6           212             7172          sOm         203           7133            1780           8913          6523            37
1989      am212                         7108       6B72           20S            "75           la_w             92           Om              3.
1990      6972          212             7184          G66         203           7071            1609      _    880   _       634             33
1991      t5718   '     212             73.9 670                  203           0903       1 1263              6866es2S2                     31
at    Avdahh oapadt~ h mmxhwAnm gmra  grs outpu *om a powwr  d,4m  nahi 6-  no, poeedmm aftv aflshq for osnsubma or obmomw  haow4 h ospeely.
#i    hispornad MW ISow          ford  kh  da" h DooswA_.
Sm:^    NYU



C~    | X S B  X I    -    - -     - --  - -  E --- - -
- r                             - - - -              >
|-|--------- ----_ - _ r I-
X-   XII                       iIt[3133i f_3       _3c
iSU~~~~  - - - - -



- 54-
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
ENBRGY AND ENViRONMiENT ROJECT
1.    Nudear. The uranium for the PAKS nucear power station is produced from a mine near Pecs.
Production, however, is costly and it may be more economical to close the mine and obtain the required
uranium from abroad. This issue is being investigated by the Government. Up to now the uranium has
been processed in the former Soviet Union and this arrangement is expected to continue. There Is an
issue concerning spent fuel repositories which needs to be resolved. Whether reprocessing is retained
as the preferred option or a once through fuel cycle Is adopted, a permanent spent fuel disposal site
will be required. According to Hungarian and foreign experts there is a suitable location near the
Mecsek uranium mfine. A research program covering this site has been prepared and submitted to the
National Boad of Technical Development, and If it Is approved, It could be part of a National Committee
of Nuclear Energy program aimed at the treatment of nuclear wastes. In September 19S2 a contract
was signed for the construction of additional interim storage capacity at Paks suffident to
accommodate the spent fuel from five years of nuclear power generation.
2.    Coal. Following negotiations between the Government and the miners' trade unions, a contract
was signed stipulating the amount of coal that would be used at each power station during 1992. The
total contracted usage Is about 117 Pj (2.7 Mtoe) at an average price of 226 forints/GJ. A similar
agreement was reachod for 1993. The quantities and prices agreed for 1992 and for 1993 are greater
than MVM Rt considers economical. Coal power station enterprises (e.g., Pecs) are Incurring losses
since the transfer price they receive for electricity does not cover their fuel and operating costs. The
last problem can in princple be solved by readjusting the transfer prices. The other problems are more
intractable. On the one hand, MVM Rt incurs greater fuel cost than H it had completely free choice to
decide on the amount of coal to use. On the other hand, there is a natural need to phase out the use
of high-cost, indigenous coal in a rational way with minimum adverse social Impact. The Government
wishes to economize on indigenous coal usage by MVM Rt and at the sarne time avoid excessive
dependence on fuel imported from the former Soviet Union. Under these circumstances, the short term
agreements are satisfactory, but it will also be necessary to reach a medium term agreement that will
pernit precise planning of mine closures and retirement of uneconomic coal power stations.
Preparations are being made for such an agreement by the Goverment, MVM and the miners' trade
unions In close laison with the Coal Mining Restructuring Center.
3.    Natural Gas and Oil. In 1990 the power stations consumed 1.8 Mtoe of natural gas and 0.4
Mtoe of oil, mostly in dual-fired (gas/heavy fuel oil) steam turbine units. MVM Rt has a contract with
MOL Rt for purchase of hydrocarbons, under which MOL Rt has the right to supply either gas or oil.
In practice MOL Rt supplies heavy fuel oUi (sometimes very high in sulfur content) in place of gas during
peak periods to a number of power staions. While this arrangement is acceptable to the power
stations unti the prices of gas and heavy fuel oil are not far apart, it carries an environmental cost due
to Increased air poilution. From MOL's point of view it has the advantage of permitting flexibility to
deal with surpluses and shortages of fuel oil and gas and therefore allows for reduced storage
requirements for both oil and gas. From the country's point of view the existence of lage dual-fired
capacity In power stations provides scope to respond to possible interruptions in imports of gas.
However, as mentioned earlier large use of high sulfur fuel oil would cause environmental problems and
be damaging to MVM's equlpment.



- 55 -
Page 2 of 2
4.    Whiio heavy fuel oii can substitute for natural gas In steam turbines, a better qualTy, more
expensive fuel Is needed as a substitute for gas In combustion turbines. The gas turbine oil used In
MVM power stations Is not only higher In economic cost than heavy fuel ol1 but it I also subject to a
large sales tax. At the present tine thi Is not a serious problem because MVM has only 202 MW of
combustion turbines which are used for "peak shaving". The problem could become more serious In
the future when MVM installs new combustion turbines to be used at high capacity factors In
combined-cyde cogeneration mode.
5.    Long term contracts for gas imports cover only a portion of forecast gas Import requirements
and the presently contracted gas will be supplied from Russia. A planned gas pipeline connection to
Austria wil- allow gas to be Imported from other countries, providing supplies become available. and
potential foreign buyers of shares In Hungarian gas distribution companies are expected to be
encouraged to bring new gas supplies to Hungary. However, even If I proves difficult to find new
supplies, an Important source of flexibility Uis In the possibility of being able to divert gas from MVM's
steam turbines to the combustion turbines. Therefore, MVM Is In a strong position to secure a full and
relable supply of gas for the Dunamenti combuston turbines throughout their lifetimes.
Source:     Bank Mission
January 1993



-56-                                     ANNEX 3.5
ENERGY AND EBMRONMENT PRQJECT
Ebidet  Taffl lam of Janu   1994)
Demad Charge                   Energ Chage
FtAkW/Year                      FUtkWh
_ _   _    _     _ _     __a                                       __                _
TaIff Category                        Bask |   Peak            Peak   |      Da          Night
Very high voltage _                   2040        4440        4.60         3.00         2.25
High voltage kl                       2160        4560        4.60         3.10         2.30
Medium voltage 3 zores £/             2220        4620        4.70         3.20         2.35
Medium voitge I £/                    2340        4800        3.60         3.60         2.50
Medium voltage n g£                   1260        2S20        S.50         5.50         2.60
Low voltage 1 4/                      2460        4980        3.70         3.70         2.70
Low voltage i Al                      1320        2640        5.70         5.70         2.80
Purhaes from industr"                                          450         2.70         2.00
Railway (above 120 kV                                     |   3.15         3.15         3.15
Trams (above 10 kV_                                           3.80         3.80         3.80
General:                                                                _
up to 2.S kVA n/                      1440                    6.20         6.20         3.00
up to 3.5 kVA ^1                      2280                    6.20         6.20         3.00
up to 5.0 kVA e/                      3540                    6.20         6.20         3.00
greter tha 5 kVA (per kVA)            720    |                6.20         6.20         3.00
Street lighting                       m600                    4.20         4.20         4.20
More intensIve lights                 1 14400                 4.20         4.20         4.20
Households:                                                _            _
day 10-600 kWhWy,y night (0.2400)                             3.70         3.70         1.90
day (over 600 kWhlyr). night (over 2400)                      5.30         6.30         2.70
day (over 3600 kWh/hr, night (over                             7.50         7.50        3.50
12,000)
Al     For sates at 225 k or above.
OW     For sales from main substations.
£/     35 kV, 20 kV and 10  .
4/     0.4 kV
£/     Total demand charge per- year, not charge per kwD.
Source: WMY Rt
Janury 1994



an Pite_t Boc_ Ca _upa
(GWh)
.isa             u          c'-    I   prt         Avaft        Lesse.                   (8)                   (10) .  _u.--
r_   1)>   Z          2-"       t____                                                                            _ .A__a_t.   ____6)_    0___6 __. )    (W 12I44)
87s         11a       21912        7386        292#          2831       26167     142         2183        5061     S          31261
1981       20          ¶91       22317        796        30301          2949      2e352W 492                0                 S2        322
1982      217m5        2836      22739        8741       31480          3182       28        14347   _20            5646      S8W9      33516
1983      25790        2162      23128        90s6       324            33.        293       1459D       2509       58        639 _  3W6
1961      210          2229      24074       10269       34343          3460       30383     15310       273        582       7050      36572
t915      269            43     2US84553     10807       35360          3589      31t77      1S947       2744       5.        79        37603
-                                 -           -_                                                                               -         
198"      28064        244       257Z0       10516         6            3836      32400      16226       221        58        7549      38580
198s7     2874         2535      26219       10613       3682           3996       3286      16615       M7         5SO       8134      39367
19      29           2571      2           192         3 4            4219       3735      1631?      _94         624       G227      405.
198       298          29        268         11084       38066          4143       33923     16t         2m          0          m4 
1990      28436        2537      258         11128       327            4036       329       14S29       2838         55      9169      394
199       30129    2Z729         27400        7m         34855          39001      30874     12291       2621       6120      9768      37408
_________    _________  -  - -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _  ____   __  _____  ___   F RC ST_ _ _ _ __- _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _-_ _ _ _ _
.992 .k      31100       270        230         2900        31230          3481      290                                        10677      34000
1993      31560        2420      29140        1940       31080          3440       27590                                       980      33500
1994      31810        2360      29450        1190       30640          3467       27360  |                      _|  ?10200             33000
1995      32300        26        29940         '00       30640          3529      2z7                                         10650     33000
1996      32900        2470      30430         m         31130          3609       27740                                      11050     33600
1997      33600        25        31080         ?0        31780          3691       28                                        11478      343
1998      3"00         2580      318Z0         7D1       32St2          3776       28980             __ __| 11900                       35100
199       35300        2650      32650         100       33350          3861       2mo               ____. _                 12350      360
2000r-  -363-          2F20      33580         710 3128                 3930350   ____, ,                       _            12820      37100
p'      Imlre-s obut SSO l musm_d by transisfn wd dIstrlaiten c dm.e cursaptfan by 1i p1   t pruieds. Atso, "at  to esuvptlan by                         X
ta6stries; ta), Agr,1. siter (9), SarvIces; 10) ard   sdme4ds (11).
W       Patly atul.                                                                                                                                      o
bw          Itt ad _u* Minton
irnwv 199



ANNEX 3.7
HUNA
NERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PRO,iT
Lem-CM  Powe  ator              Invem t nP
Fhoecst Camdtv ftlaMce (MW Net AvaRable
1993        1994        1996        1996       1997        S998     1999          2000
EXISTING: 
Nueaw r                   1708        1708        1708        1708        1708       1708        1708        1708
Coad                      1514        1440        1375        1327        1213       l166        1085        a005
onhian Steam              2486        2486        2486        2486        2486       2486        2486       2344
Gas Turiwne                198         t98         198         198         198        198        198         198
I Hyfe                     48          48          40          48          48         48          48          48
other E_                   438         438         438         433        403         403        390         375
TotalExleting             6392       f6318        62a93       6200        6S6        6W08        5915        5678
NEW PLANT:
Kelafdld                                                       145         145        145        145         145
Dnmemntd 02                                                                217        217        217         217
DOebrmn                                                                    100        100         100        100
_Lp-t  157                                                                                       '157        157
Klpst                                                                                            t48         148
Alm_           _1 _                                                                               122        122
Peeh ca__                                                      160        320         480        480         480
Combinedcye                         _                                                                        450
Total New   -   '    --0. > O          MO                      305         782        1099       1369        I81S
Tota CaPacky              6392        6318        6253         505        6838        7107       7284        7497
Epvort k                                                       -172       -172        -172       -172        n172
kmpos (nwe                 341         209         123       123           123        123         123        123
ToailAvalae               6733            2.-   6376          6456   . 789            7068       7235        7448
uaionen emnd            ' 5163         6090  -'90             5171        5279        5402      5540.       5694.1
GOswn Rewei         _      30          28          25          25          29          31         31          31
LOUP 1%) o                0.253       0.625       O.9971      1I88        1.442      0.928       0.806       0.74
.              . .     -             . .           ..  _.
El     C   _ogera  npeacity andilidpelnmlt produoa.
kI     Co _nmnt resltim csncelation of Boa Negywm   p omen
sY     Incpenlentat pow station low rssme gas el
jl     Combustion aurbines.' Iniot or lIpple con-rml.
Efl    Loe of load pobabiliy.
NW Rt
Jamay 1993



- 59 -
ANNEX 4.1
I~~~~I
X X is 111 iii!



I                                   I
11  ~I    I I  uII               Ii        II II
Il'I ' Il   'I 
111I         I          I Tll --I
I
Z-, X3NNY                    -09-
!    I.1- 09 I-



- 61 -
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJt
Descaiotion of the Dunamenti Combined-Cycle Coaeneon Plant
The Existing Dunamenti Power Station
1.    The existing Dunamenti Station, which is located at Szazhalombatta, about 30 km southwest
of Budapest and on the banks of the Danube River, Is the lagest thermal power plant in Hungary. At
present the power station consists of 13 generation units with a nominal site rating of 1870 MW. The
oldest part of the Dunamenti power station Is the Cogeneration Section "BEAD" (with two units of 20
MW, one of 40 MW and another of 50 MW; consuming natural gas for the most part), which produces
electricity and steam for the nearby oil refinery and hot water for the town of Szazhalombatta.
Dunamenti's additional nine condensing units of 3 x 150 MW (section 'C', consuming heavy oil or gas)
and 6 x 215 MW (section "F", consuming gas or heavy oil) produce electricity In the first place and
only during peak heat demand period take part in the heat supply. The cogeneration section was built
In the early 1960's and required replacement due to serious wear.
Reolacement of the Coaeneration Section
2.    With a view to Increase energy efficiency and hence the environmental acceptability, Instead
of reconstructing the BEAD cogeneration section in Its original form, MVM Rt Is in the process of
replacing it with a combined-cycie cogeneration section. The section Is to consist of two gas-fired
combined cycle modules, operating in cogeneration mode for producing both electricity and heat, to
be Implemented in two stages. The location of the new combined cycie cogeneration section presents
no difficulties and does not disturb operation of the existing units. The first stage development (Gl
module), financed by a barter trade agreement with Germany, is being installed and is dose to
completion; It Involves lnstailation of a V94.2 Siemens gas turbine with a 300 tlh Babcock-Borsig heat
recovery steam generator supplying steam at 17 bar pressure and 310 degree C temperature for the
oil refinery. Exhaust gas from the open-cycle gas turbine of 145 MW rated output heats the single
pressure heat recovery steam generator. The total heat demand to be met by the Dunamenti Power
Station is about 440 MWt. The G1 module can produce 240 MWt of heat and meets only 55 percent
of the heat demand. The second stage development (B2 module) Is required to meet the balance of
the heat demand, and provide additional power generation capacity for the power system. After
Implementation of the G2 module, the existing aging Cogeneratlon Section WBEAD" will be totally shut
down. The existing condensing units, which were not designed for cogeneration, will be relieved of
thelr heat supply commitment, and would benefit from more effcient power generation ("F" Section
wHi Increase output by about 36 MWe) and environmental improvement ("C" Section will operate as
standby power generation unit, reducing heavy oil consumption). Since wF" Section will not be
bounded anymore by heat supply comnitment, it will provide necessary flexibility for frequency control
required by Interconnection with UCPTE. The prerequisite for this Is that sufficient rapidly deployable
reserve capacity be available.
Combined-Cycle Coaeneration Plant Under the Pronosed Prolet
3.    The Dunamenti site Is strategically located with respect to present and future load growth.
Taking into account Dunamenti's site conditions, land availabity, existing access roads and other
Infrastructure, availability of cooling water, pubilc acceptability, heat and power demand, proximity to
existing high-voltage electric transmission lines, locaton adjacent to a major switchyard, plant



- 62 -
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
economy, and the feasibility of Integration with existing power and heating facilities, the G2 module
was selected under the proposed Project as the appropriate site for further expansion. The G2 module
together with the GI module are capable of meeting the steam demand for the oil refinery and the hot
water supply for district heating In Szazhalombatta.
4.    The Dunamenti site Is presently being developed for the installation of two combined-cycle
units. The site is flat and level. Access to the site Is provided both by highway and railroad. The
combined-cycle gas and steam turbine cogeneration plant, G2 module, under the proposed Project can
be accommodated within the available site boundaries without the necessity of acquiring additional
land. The expansion will include a combined-cycle module consisting of a 145 MW gas turbine, a 300
t/h heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), a 25 MW back-pressure steam turbine and a 65 MW
condensing steam turbine. For ease of construction and operation the gas turbine of the G2 module
will be identical to the gas turbine of the G1 module and directly procured from Seimens and coupled
with matching generator. The gas turbine and heat recovery steam generator wUi be installed next to
the GI module. The two gas turbines will share a machine hail and cranes already Instalied. The gas
turbo-generator which will normally operate on natural gas would be capable of operating on distillate
fuel oil at periods of gas shortages. Exhaust gas from the gas turbine flows through the HRSG and
then through the stack. Bypass exhaust between the gas turbine and the HRSG will be provided to
enable the gas turbine to maintain full load in the event of a condensing steam turbine trip or
shutdown. This arrangement will also provide the possibility to commission the gas turbine earlier
(about two years lead time) followed one year later by HRSG with the steam turbines (three years
total). HRSG will be unfired, dual pressure, designed to accept the maximum exhaust temperature and
gas flow of the connected gas turbine.
S.    The G2 module is designed to maximize Integration with the existing facilities. The HRSG
produces low (17 bar) and high pressure (76 bar) steam. The high pressure steam flows through a 25
MW back-pressure steam turbo-generator to generate power. After conversion of the high pressure
steam into electricity, the low pressure steam (17 bar) exhausting from the back-pressure steam turbine
flows to the existing 17 bar steam system for export to meet the steam demands for oil refinery during
peak demand period, and during off-peak period flows along with the low pressure steam directly from
the HRSG to the condensing turbine to generate additional power. The plant will also be
Interconnected through a heat exchanger supplying hot water to the existing district heating system
of Szazhalombatta. Steam pipelines of 5 km length from the Dunamenti power station to the oil
refinery and pipelines to local district heating networks are existing. The total installed capacities of
the G2 module are 235 MWe and 240 MWt. The use of waste heat to produce thermal energy and
additional electric power in the combined-cycle cogeneration mode Increases the overall efficiency of
the plant. The thermal efficiency of the G2 module is expected to be 81.4% compared to 70% of the
existing cogeneration units to be replaced.
6.    The power produced by the gas turbo-generator and steam turbo-generators Is sent to the
Interconnected power system through a step-up transformer to the existing 220-kV and 120-kV
switchyard. The switchyard will be extended with one cell of one-and-a-half switchgear. The
switchyard Is connected to the interconnected system by 220J120-kV double circuit transmission iines
to Martonvasar and Kobanya substations. No new network connection is required. The existing power
system Is able to deliver the electricity produced.
7.    Natural gas for the gas turbines fuel Is delivered to the site by an existing pipeline from the
national gas pipeline offtake point (Szazhalombatta, 1.8 km northwest of the site) at a pressure of 64
bars and reduced in the existing gas pressure reduction stion, designed for two units, to about 18
bars. Al necessary connections have been provided. For G2 an additional operating pump wiil be
instded. The calorific value of the gas Is 43.34 MJIkg 18300 Kccalm3). The 02 module would
produce about 1,500 Gwh of electricity requiring about 325 million m3 of natural gaslyear. The
capacity of the gas delivery pipeline between the gas pressure reduction station and the combined-
cycle plant is  1 0,000 Nm3Jh, which Is sufficient for two gas turbines at maximum consumption. The
fuel oil supply system has been constructed. A common distillate oil storage tank of 20.000 m3



- 63 -
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 3
capacity has been constructed at the nearby oil refinery. At maximum fuel oil consumption the tank
has sufficient capacity to supply two gas turbines for one week. The daily oil tank of 1,000 m3
capacity located near the gas turbines is capable of storing fuel oiN sufficient for an eight-hour
operation. The two tanks are interconnected. An additonal booster pump will be installed in the
existing pumphouse located next to the 1,000 m3 oil tank. The system is adequate for the additional
02 module.
8.    The condensing turbine of the G2 module has been designed based on a once-through
condenser cooling water system, drawing water from the Danube River and discharging back to the
river at the surface further away from the Intake. The cooling water requirement is modest (about 3.6
cubic meters per second) and available. The cooling water system is existing. The Intake structure
and circulating pumphouse are located on the banks of the Danube river. The addition of the G2
module will be accommodated by adding a pump in the existing pumphouse. Other common facilities
such as water pro-treatment, wastewater treatment, demineralized water facilities, and fire extinguisher
water network are designed to incorporate the needs of the G2 module.
9.    The following are the main Performance Data of the G2 Combined-Cyde CogeneratTon Plant:
Maximum                 Mximm
Electrical Output         Heat Output
Fuel                               Natural gas             Natural gas
Air temperature (Degree C)               15.0                   -3
Gas turbine power output (MWe)          146.3                  163.1
Back pressure steam turbine
power output (NWe)                     23.4                   22.7
Condensing steam turbine
poer output (Wle)                      57.4                   12.3
Station service power (Wge)               2.4                    2.1
Total net power output (NWe)            224.7                  196.0
Net electrical yield (X)                 50.2                   40.5
Stem
for process export (Wt)                  6.0                  155.1
for hot water heating (Wt)               8.0                   48.0
Total heat output (1W11t)                14.0                  203.1
Nakeup water (Wt)                         0.2                    4.7
Net thermal output (Mgt)                 13.8                  198.4
Total power and thermal output (N11)   238.5                   394.4
Total power and thermal heat rate
(KJ/KVh)                             6754.0                  4420.0
Total power and thermal efficiency       53.3                   81.4
Surn:       MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 64 -
Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 3
ENW AND EN\"RNMEl T PRQO- :T
Dobf of *0 Enera NM tB Sebm UnrA
Existna Structure of MVM Rt's neray Manacemen System (EMS)
1.    The opwration of the Hungatrin power sysm Ii managed in a hierarchical fashion: the
National Dspatch Center (NDC), located In Budapest six Regional Dispatch Centers IRDC); and 39
Distributin Dispatch Centers (DC). This is an accepted method of opraion internationally. The NDC
monitors and directs intemadonal energy exchange, oporaton of the maJor generating plants, and the
bulk power transmission system at the 750 kW. 400 kV, and 220 kV voltage levels, as wel as the
meshed portions of the 120 kV subtransmission sysem. It also coordinates operation of the regional
dipatch cont,rs.  Six RDCs monitor and control the 120 kV (in some areas also 35 kVi
Sbu    mi    network, each RDC having th operational authority over the servico area of the
rspective regional power distribution company. DDCs operating the medim-voltago (mostly 10 and
20 k  diibution network within their respective custowm service disctits. Operation of the DDCs
within a regional power company is supervised and coordinated by the respectve RDC.
2.    The NDC Is the highest loved of authority in operating the Hungarian power system. t i
responsibe for the avaiabiity of bulk power to the regional power companies. and for the supervision
and coordination of RDC activities related to the 120 kV network. Each RDC is msponsible for the
adequacy and relability of power deliveies through the 120 kV subtransmissbon network to the
edium-voltgo distribution system fd  points within the company's snce aes.  t also
coordiates the operaton of its subordinatd DDCs. Each ODC has ultimate responsibility for the
availability and quality of customer seice within its district.
3.    The vaious dispatch centefs exchange information wifth each other, as well as with the
substations and power plants under their athoriy, via voice and data communicaton channels. The
NDC maitains direct communicaton liks with bulk power substaton remote terminal unhs IRTUs)
and major power plant control centers. Subtransmission and distribution substaton RTUs are directy
connected to the DDC data concentrators or to the RDC master stations.
4.    The present NDC control systn was developed and ini.alled In 1978-79. The NDC dispatch
computer system was supplied by Hitachi in 1979 and front-end processors, supplied by Siemens,
wer added subsequently. This system has been augmented by a local area network of personal
computs (OVINET) to accommodate additional functions (primarily in the operations planning nd
andyis rea) that cannot be supported by the exsting Hitachi system. There is no direct data
communietion between the NDC and RDC control facies. This method of power plant control and
th present condition of the exsting power plant controllers wi not meet the flexibiity and speed of
sponm requlrments for effective ntconn ion  th UCPTE.
5.    The now EMS will not change the hierarchial structure but rather support It. However, it must
hmve tO ncesary data communications network so that there will be direct links between the NDC
and a1 skx RDCs. The EMS wil be of an Open Systems Architecturew design, end incorporte the
oprtg system, daft bm  management sytem. telecommunications systems software, Man-
Mahin Interlace (MMI) and Graphics Intrifae so that In the future, the system can be upgraded,
expanded and modulay replaced when necessary.



- 65 -
Amx S.2
Page 2 of 3
S.    The scope oi the EMS upgrding wi cover:
(a)   replcmnt_ of the exit  Hachi and Siemens conputer systems at the NDC locaotd
In Budapest) wih a nfw EMS maw staton. to support the oprotion of the bulk
powe network and nteamonal cxpetdon  The repiacment ao involve the
phaned  ntiton from the  ting sstem to the now EMS;
b)   amplenton of new EMS mastr sfttons at four IDCs, which are curntiy not yet
automated: oneach for the reglonal electric ditrtion companis EDASa (in GYM).
DEDASa (in P4c). TASz (in Debrecon). and ELMU (n Budapst). The new RDC
EMS facilies wl support tho opeation of the rmglonal subtransmison and distribution
networks In their respective sevic territories;
(ca   Implemenion of 17 new date concentraot nsytem, at currenty not automated DDC
locations at the  o   onfour distribution companr. They w  ierfaco with
the RTUs located In substations within each DDC's seric district
(d)   Implemention of about 40 new RTUs at transmission substions and mo power
plants and about 70 new RTUs at subtransmissonl distribution substaftons. The new
RTUs will have inteal ntellgence, and will be of the modula, distributed architetu.
Some RTUs will be equipped with local men-machine intrface. A RTUs wIN have
nmutpl communicaton ports; some RTUs will comm    teith more than one
mete  staton in th  EMNS hiarchy.  Al crcal RTUs wll have redundant
c Iaon paths; and
(ci   commicaIon interfaces between the followig facitie:
-     NDC and four new RDC compute systems;
-     NDC and two exitng RDC computer systems. EMASk in Miskoic. and DEMAIz In
Seged);
seach new RDC and its asociated now daft coenetror systems;
-     each new ROC and is existing full-service DOC sstem;
*     IINDC and it drcty connected RTUs located at maor power satons and substons;
*     each now data concetrator and it associated RTUs at tranemissonldist dlul
substations; and
zeach new EMS master station and other MVM Rt computer system  (e.g.. corporate
computor), as well as foreign dispatch computer s ms (in NDC only).
Th entrO  threelevel EMSISCADA system with It communication  trfamc  will be deigned,
supplied, an iknemented to work as an ingrated whole.



- 66 -
Amex S.2
Pag 3 of 3
Jusfld    of EMS UggMd
7.    prsently, an unusualy lge portion of the coune electricity demand s mt by;mport from
CIS midt  ounput of two are domestic powe plants. The Hungaran poww system Is vulneble
to th loss of a maJor itmatonal tie Ione, or to the outage of a major foreign or domestc powr
plan. MVM Rt Is planing to reduce ts dependence on power Impor from the Est, kiter aol, by
ostablhing stoner int            wI  thO West European Power Poo IUCPTEI. Futr
coopertion wth both th UCPTE and CMEA poww pools, managoement of MYM Rts intal
resoures, and fast response to major emergencies wDi all require Improved moniong and control of
te Hungaian power systm. An up-to-date natonwide EMS, with appropriat dispatching and control
faciDt  and a reliable daft commwnkiaon m , wil help achieve thes goas.
S.    i addition to the key benefit of enablig MVM Rt to intwconnect wiWh UCPTE th upgaded
EMS wi contute significanly to th incased rellablity of the MVVM Rt power spply. This
insed reliblity wDI come about as a result oft: l knproved system proftetion by the use of fast
shdin schemes: 0i1 Improved opering decisons due to better and more reab  informaton;
(ll relable and timey       for the information oxchang ruired for intenidona cooperation; (Ilv
con t reald-tme snapshot and historal data for engineeringlplanning staff to calibrat poww
system   models; Iv) eaniy deection of equipment misoperatlon. and p_veto  of consequent
wdesproad damae to the equipment Ivi) better contingency alysis tools; and lvii better
OPaop hr training.
9.    Since an ES of "open structure" design is adopted, it should not have to be rep d In total
in the fur. It wE be expandable and migtable. changing and upgrading mowduly. Due to this.
ihe ie-cyele of th EMBS wMli be gready extended.
Im:         UVM Rt and Bank Misson
October 1993



- 67 -
Annex 5.3
ENEGYANEV 
M_twne TOM
Ctew  Toms of Re_eam
In order to support the tansformon of the MVM Rt into a commercial company, the Board
of MVM Rt decided to Introduce a comprehensive training program To this end 1he following aroas
au  accorded highest priokt:
*     fhmce for management induding cost control, budgeting, contracting, and management
rporting;
*     peopl managen meting and negotiation skis, peronal orgaiton and planning: and
*      otrde organization, human resoure and conflict management.
An intesiv training proram will be implemnted In 1993 for about 12 officas from
Economic. Development and Operatons Directorates (at least deputy managerW level). The objectives
are:
El)   to introduce thom to tho up-to-date worldwido state of the wt specificaly in the power
in-
(ll   to iktduce them to methods to implement the varous management tools and present
practc  experiences regarding Implementadon; and
(i)   to establish approprte mnagement cultu  according to general guidelines fom the Board
of Dietors.
The Pogram wil be caried out In a perod of about 12 dap. n wm Invove two groups of sx
people each. Training for the first group wll be In Hungary and for the second group abroad h order
to complement the theoretical approach by exchange of practical experience with selected foreign
compane. As the course is highly intsive, the wiU have to be very a uraey prepared. This work
would be caried out by a consultan acceptable to the Bank. who will be a speciaist in management
and trainIng organiztion. preferably with experience in. but not limited to. electric power generation
and dibution acities.
8urces:     iUMVM Rt and Bank Mission
January 1993



- 68 -
ANNEX SA
ENEGYAND  N             NM
iimiLfm=iiim                  i
Hugma    TersofW*nc 1
in order to support the davelopments of new policies and tools for the human resouc
management In MVM Rt. the company needs to Introduce training within 1s Human Resoure
Deparmet (HRD) In the following fields with consultant's assistance:
*     job design and description Inluding roles and responsiblDtes;
*     Job evaluation;
*     rotation policies;
*     career and succession at various company levels;
*     competercy and skill analysis;
3 remuneration policy, salary scale and linkage with Job descron and performance;
*     evaluaton system;
s     peronal performance followup:
*     manpower planning.
The progran woudd involve four or five people from th HRD dufing h    pwiods of the
confrnce day each over three months, involving a totd of nine days.
Each of the above fields will be covered by a specilist, and each esion will be desin
acrdhig to the work profile of the participants. At the end of each sesion, the consultat(s) wE
report to te HRD regarding the necessary additional trining and folow-up technical assita    to HRD
for developing and implementing appropriate methodologies.
In order to develop this program the consultant wil carry out the following tasks:
Task 1:     Dofie the areas of training fields after Interviewing the Mager of th HRD an the
Directors of the Development Economic and Operation Directorates.
Task 2:     Select the 12 participants of the above-mentioned training program in conjunction wWh
MVM Rt's management
Task 3:     Prepar the deailed topics (obJective-oriented) to be covered. cleaf Identiyng the
necessary pedagogic support and technical documentation.
Task 4:     Identify the appropriat resource persons.
Task 5-:    Organie and supervise the courses and visis to other lectr    companies as
necessary.
Cosidering that such a training program would probably be ended to other groups In MVM
At H     a     and posibly to other production and dibu  companis of t  Concem, t
consutant wi hae to ensure that the training program can be repeated in the future wih the lat
Possil effort
s_r:        MVM At and Bank Mission
January 1993



- 69 -
Annex 6.5
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND 0      IVQNMENlT PROJECT
Em gironm-ntd Tranin P
PROPOSED POSSIBLE  ESTIMIATED NUMBER       O
COURSE AREA           VENUE(S)          OF STAF.FWEEICS      OR{GANIZATION
Evaluaton of        EastemlWestem                6.0               MVM Rt
environmental       Europe
management at other
power authorities
Study of pollution  Western Europe/USA           7.5               MVM Rt
control in power
plants    .     .     .     _ _    _.
Environmental       Westem Europe                5.0               MVM Rt
assessment
Environmental       Westem Europe/USA            7.0               MVM Rt
aspects of power
plant planning                                          .    .
International       Westem Europe,               9.0               MVM Rt
cooperation         USA, Japan                                                  I
Environmental                                                 Operating company
monitoring and      Hungary                     36.0          staff
control
Selection of        Western Europe/USA          10.0          Operating company
monitoring equipment                                 -        staff
Study of            Westem Europe               27.0          Operating company
environmental                                                staff
monitoring
experiences              ._.
Source:     MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 70 -
Annex 5.6
ENERGY AND  WIROiMEWi  PROJECT
AT        I.  MONi.TO*rUIG TYPE          LOCATION           PARAMETERS
021 CO' Co2, SO?2
NOINOx, Dust,
Dunamenti             Emission            F Block flue           Pressure
Temperature,
Velocity
Tisza II            Emission                Rue                As above
Dunanti              Air Quality         Plant Environs       SO2, NO2, dust
meteorological
Ternperature, oil, pH,
Dunarnenti         Water Quality         Cooling water          BOD, COD
intakeloutlet        conductivity
Matra            Water Qualty
Tisza            Water Quality
Bakony                Noise            Plant Environs        Decibels (dB)
Budapest                                                  __
Dunamenti
Matra                                                            _    _
Pecs                  _        _       _.__
Tisza                                    . .
Vertes                 n                     U                               I
ELMO                   n                    a                     U
&9uroe:      MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 71 -
Page 11 of4
,ENEAAND NMM ,
Mm   D  Tiem ..  N    Wtr-po
Dfaft MM fBamM
The itom of the EMP Is as folows: eblWish a sound data bsis on envionmental prfofm
and hmpac of MVM Rtes eWstng energylpowef genra  system estimate potontal  vironmeta
Isues for MVM Vs fture energylpower generating system; prepr anw begin to imploment a priority-
based/costeffective remedlaeon program to address the most crtc  nironmentl spects of MVM
Wts exting heatpower geneamon system.
Method of Study Condgct
It Is itendd to involve severd organiztionad enftis in prepareing the EMP a foreign consulng
compa. MVM Rt Section for Environmentad Protection, and Opeatons secons at various MVM Rt
facilities for heat/power generaton. Close cooperation wMil be required between 11 organiions for
a successfd program.
h foreign consulting company will be responsible for proposing uitale orgait
arrangements. ins recommended management arrangements will represent one of the to  to be
considered In evaluating t proposal.
A descrwion of organization arangements should include. but not be liied to. th followig
key _elmet:
*     joint EMP amaaement team with both foreign conwlt and MVM Secdon for
Environmental Protection.
*     clear eaboration of specfic roles, sponsibIlftes. etc. betwen al organizaonal unis
involved.
Deied specifctons for managng the EMP ae to assure substia strengheng of
analytia aldu for  nvironment   ysis and management for the nergy sector wil be acqulred by
Hungarian technician with MVM and Its operati  companis.
PHASE I - DIAGNOSTIC
Dblm         :     Estabish an infomaion base concerning environ  dciharges (gas. iuid.
solid, noise, etc.) *om MVM Rt's curent hepoww generation systm and
the physal, chemica and bilogkic Impact of thes dischars on the hum
and natural environment.
Deie boh tho  stg n             rgulato frmework hh influences
MVM Res operations and assess potel influene  of any anticipated
regulations, both nationJ and inteaondal, on MVM  is currnt and futur
opeations.



- 72 -
Pag 2 of 4
Scope of Work:
Task A - Establh    vn t    _eronn    of do Estng MVM Rt Ssptem
A comprehensive examination of existing nformation regarding the environnental pedormance
(gas, liquid, solid, noise) of aN MVM RWs current heat/power generting facilities will be performed.
Additional data fogarding land use pattems, socioeconomic charactrist, environmental
qualit (air, wae, soil. noise. etc.). and Impacts on natural (terrestraquaftc ecosystems) and huma
(hoalth, buildings, agriculture) onvironments nea each of these facities wl also be collected and
oxamined. Date Is to be collected from sources both within MVM Rt, other appropriate Hungarian
Govemrment i_sitons, various national or intemational organizton who have or are currendy
stdying the Hungai environment, ste visits and documentation reported In tie open ltturo. At
ihose locaions where data is lacking, Is inapproproia, ambiguous or of questionable validity, and there
is sufficint ufication to ndicat serious environmental impacts, a modest but adequate monitoring
program Is to be dsigned and Implemented.
Task   - Rslm  Exitn EviMunMItn Legiaton
Colect and review all oxistig national environmenta legilation, regulations and guidelines
cncemin licensing and pemitting (including environmenta assessment for both construction and
opation of elements induded in MVM Rt's system (elecbical generation, steam/heat generton,
btansmsiondistrlbution). Distinguish between legal requirements and recommended guidelines.
Pefofm a simlar actWiv  for al intemational agreemonts and protocols to which Hungary Is signatory.
Prc'4de a comprehensive assessment of how this framework has oporated In the past and Its
reladt  strengths and weaknesses. Include a record of nes and penlties assessed to MVM Rt for
Inadequate environmenta compliance over the past decade. and characterize actual costs MVM Rt
accrued fw specific vions. In esec. an asmssment of the efectveness of enforcemet which
wi also includo forced shutdown, reductions In output and other legal actons.
Parilar attention should be pald to recently established regulations which have not yet been
t.  An asessment should be made of any Influences these new regulations might have on specific
type pojct (new faeDities, rehablitastin, expansion, efficiency improvements, altemate boler
configuration. decommissioning. etc.) in terms of delayed scheduLes, increased preparation costs and
impact on foreign capital attraction from bi-, and mult-lateral and privat intemational investment
com_mities. Discussions should be held as appropriat with officials from the Hungarian Government,
polital leaders and the investnent communitis.
Task C - Review of MM Rirs Plne Futue Ptom
Discu  with planning officials within MVM Rt polikles and prioritis for their short. medium-.
and ong-rum invtent rategy. In particular, iheir views eoncening improved system  efficiencies
(supply and enduse). polution controlienvironmental miigation at new installations, and measu  to
be taken at existing fcities (e.g., rehabilitation, expansion, decommissioning). Discussions should
also be held with other Govemment organizations responsible for energy planning, fuel
supplyldevelopment and envionment.
Review any recent analyses or studies relevant to this sue which might have been prepared
by these organizations.
To th extnt it k eliic and possible (and with explickit approval by MVM Rt manag
to conduct imitd disc ons with local authorities. nvironmental organizations, or groups which may
be efected by more significant slments of the program.



- 73 -
Amm BJ7
Pae3 of4
Tak D - Assessmnwt of Lil E   onmen  Regulations for SW Futr
Conduct dicussions wIth Govemment organizations and elected offial responsbeforvuoes
aspOC   of energy development, supply, transmission, endus  and enionment  Focus on
Indewuac   of the existng regulatory framework In both priciple and practice (patdulauy wfih
respect to IneffIIences and enforcement). Determine, to the extent possbe. key ar  t arem k Uely
to be modhsed and the time frame under which these changes night occur.
Discussions should also be conducted with otr Eurpean orgazations (notaby On EC) or
other sHcifc ntemational organizations which might play an Influential role In defining tho future
reguatry frmework.
PHASE U - IDuMIFICATION OF HIGH PRIORITY NEEDS/ACTIONS
Objecti      :     Determination of mott crical environmental aspects of th existing heat/power
generaton systm, and necessar mitgation measwes.
Determination of environmental constraints likely to influence short-medIum-
and long-range planning decisions of the future heatpower generation system
Scope of Work:
Task A - i   _ deicato of Current Ehnvionmenam Pfrirts and Options for Litig
Based upon results of efforts performed under Phase I/Task A (Environmental Pedomrance of
the Existng MVM Rt System). an undestanding of MVM Rt's key environmental problems should be
established. These problems should be assessed In the context of the Phase ITask C effort (Review
of MVM Rt Planned Future Program) to determihe he extent to which these problems are addresd
In MVIM Ws investment program.
For those elements which are eiter not considered In the MVM Rt Planned Future Program or
re not assigned the appropriate priorty necessary for environmental mitigation whin the oxesting
hetpower generation system, prepare a seri of recommended actions to resolve these ises. For
each action (e.g.. reduce dust emission levels at Pecs) provide a range of mitgation meaures whch
might be employed.
Mitgating options to be considered shall nlude both technial as well as economic menures.
The folowig examples are  ustrative of the types of options to be considered. The consultant may
kIentld odher
*     End of stck (end of pipe) control
*     Mert order dispatching based upon pollution Inpacts minization.
*     Intermint control sategy (switching to less polluting fuel durn petiod of high
pollution causing weather conditions, I.e. invesions).
*     Ineased stackheights.
C     Alteorat boler technologies.
*     Altemate power cydes.
*     Applicadon of shadow prices to operating coss.
*     System of pollution chargs.
*     Emissions trading or pollution offsets betwee power statons.
Task  -  *ousrnti Constrait to Futre Hest/Power Geneato Facltes
The knowledge gained of MVM Rt's future generaton plan (Phas  radsk Al. th exist
regulatory framework (Phase itlask B) as wel as an estimate of how that framework might change



- 74 -
AUmexL
Pago 4 of 4
(Phase ITask D) should provide a basis upon which envronmental boundaries of MVM Rt's future plans
may be dofed.
The contactor should pepao an in-depth analytical study for MVM  ts docisionmaker. which
Wm Identify envionmental constants to future generaion capacty. Constaints which are to be
conidwed sa  inlude but not be limited to: physical (locational) litadons based upon currnt levels
of pollution; social aspects (regons gikly to receive Feir a positve or negstve reception from loca
govennts en  affected groups); technial options (based upon avaslbity of fuel offdite
inhastructure; natra enrnment (biological protected areas); weas of high cultura, relois.
aestheic valu  and human environment (con.stencles or conflict with current land use, economic
acvitis and public heal characteristics).
The study should also analyze constraints Imposed by Hungars subscription to interational
protocols (notaby the Helsinki and Sofia conventions for sufur dioxide and nitrogen oxides
repectively. It is recognized that commitment to these protocols Is at a national level which icnudes
n ot o erg but tranport, Industry housing, oet. as wai. However, the stdy should cekainy
Idenify mibt to MVMs heatlpower generation plans which wM insur their consitncy with overall
ntonal goals to meet these protocols.
PHASE U - IMPLEMENTATION
Objetves    :      Establish a cost-effective, priory based environmental remediatbon program for
MVM's existin generation capacitv.
Complete necessary mitigation for the highest priority onvironmental progruas
identified In the remedlation program.
Scope of WorLc
Tak A - Enwinent priorities previously determined In Pha i ask A shal be based upon
ra i_pacts to the human, biological or physicl envioment, rather than a need to meet some
environmena stand. However, once priorities have been established. migation options should be
recommende to assure that these impacts are both reduced to acceptable levels at minimum cost and
in complIance wih exting legisation.
Sice seval opti    may be available to reduce or eliminato impact, the final seection will
be made by MVM management. Thus the consultant wil detal the priority areas. tho range of
miltgating opions and associated costs (local/foreign. capltaloperating). lely envonn
imprm     (e.. to si or water qualit) and advantagesidisadvantages of each possibility. Priorit
areas    be enumerated in their order of importance.
Task  - After MVM management has selected mitigation options for the priority ares,. the
evronment improvement program Is to begin for as many of the mitgating investments as avalable
resourc  wm aow.
MMffn:      MVM At and Bank Mission
Januay 1993



- 75 -
Anlnex 5.8
HUN¢GARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Ptolect Cost Estmate.,'
(US* miflon)
tWa                               TIOCA COST   0WN CTo          I
1. D~~u~.  _ .i
slWftp  m,Q 0.6                                                 -0.6
CIS Waft                                14.5                    14.5
(.tuWaslgutatldamxu                      1.9         45.5       47.4
HNSG&saws                                1.3         15.2       It6
8_bm   _fg  _A_ mid ma.umIin             3.9         16.5       22.4
_umu CImm& oing                         0.4           2.0        2.4
Emu _d e*m I                            0.8           4.1        49
T,inuAfmmmWd swlhbum                     0.9          5.8        6W.
Fu. watM. ofn be""                       3.4          4.9        3.3
caw"                                     0.7           -         0.7
Mbsduaamm                               0.1           0.4        0.5
En. at l                                4.0           5.0        9.0
CmmUuctImi ninsgunu                      6.2                     6.2
SublW                                  3S.6         101.4      1404
2. ESS Up_aL_g
CIA i'                                   3.4           -3.4
Uen  aus.                                3.0         21.6        24A
RTtis                                    4.9          63         10.2
Data ommemibatars                        0.4          1.5         1.9
_       etuunuasftwwm                   1.3            -          1.3
Assadmu.d -~c.uium                       .            3.5         6.8
WA, uh *Im                               0.4          0.3        0.7
EqObnSe                                  1.3          0.8        2.1
Cint       b_um                          0.7          0.2         0.9
b_I                                 18.7          33.2       51.9
3. B NmU Raw                               0.2          4.7        4.9
4. hsUbuonsd Truku                         0.3          0.3       O0
. B_ Cost                                 57.8        13-         197.4
6. CaniS_ mim
n uG' 6.6A                                          9.3        15.9
Pd..                                   4.7          10.7       15.4
7. Totb PA  cast                          69.1        159.6       2_57
S. bIt IeOt_ a  C _nutam                  4.6           9.3        13.8
_~ - -    
9.TsoThN   g mpA.a                 I    73.6   168.              242.
mm Ut mid s* tmm
Odbw 1993
j/    Custo  dudies and taxes of US$17.8 mlon equivalent are not Induded.



HUNMRY ~       ~          ~ ~ AN  B
_EAM ENVm RQSAT 
lnemont h8dde tow Enlet
fiet* pelano bW demw             0      4otl19Sn          11tIl611      9     9 071011IN3         04OtM1193        l      tOSI1199
Appmd liV IMA Rt                        1=f111M9          0t281194             01131/1994         1012011M9               03/2011994
Reviw wW apprm  by 11D                                    031311t994           *wills"            1111611W9               04/1301
bowof bWdom _ni                                           04/1SJ1994           0313111994    _ _12299                     OSf31M8994_
jAdderda nd cblkeone          let a".                     08/151/994           0S16/1994           01l20/1994             07/2/1994 |
I                    ~~~~        ~~~2nd etq        11l2Sl1994                               09/1011994                   _       Ia
Nd _p*                        let olab               _     711es               06'13994            03h6311n994      _     0913i19940  
'1                                                                        a12'ds  1212611994  1:11  9
TWWOf       Won              l etnda              *d 1    10/t6/1994           0812611994         07/06ngs94              1ulsc31199
2nd a"              02116*nd99O                              123-9
|tAppmsal by MVa   Rt ldt               04a"1             10/2011994           090191t6           06/011994               011611993
Approved bytsal MVP4 RI3111993o0212019   013114                                                   10101199 
Review nd appoa b BRD                 _____t        _      1013111994          10/1/1994          011151199     -1
|en, of2bnd documents                                    04/1 6/1t94           03M131993993                              05/1699
Abdden    ofa tIuctIne        lot s                       110611994           101/11994          0n1o01994               072_1OI99S
2nd sutag   ___1_6                                                   0259011996
Eorpenig                     l          0ot3ste994 _   04115/1996              011161994          0331161994              0/311S/994
O0nt/w 19                                                                                1
Tender ovakiatlen  let stags  10/15/1994    08/25/1994         07/05/1994              1213111994~~~~~~~t



- 77 -
Annex 5.10
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENViRONMENT PROJECT
Teams of Reference for Cornqui 0ervjMo
for Dununand Combined       rag Coaseuraion Pant
Background
1.    The existing Dunamenti station, which is located at Szazhalombatta, about 30 km southwest
of Budapest on the banks of the Danube River Is the largest thermal power plant in Hungary. At
present the power station consists of 13 generation units with a nominal site rating of 1870 MW.
2.    MVM Rt Is in the process of constructing a combined-cycle cogeneration section at the
Dunamenti site. The section Is to consist of two gas-fired combined-cycle modules, operating In
cogeneraion mode for producing both electricity and heat, to be implemented In two stages. The first
stge development (GI module) Is being implemented, which Involves instal!ation of a V94.2 Siemens
gas turbine of 145 MW with a 300 tlh heat recovery steam generator supplying steam at 17 ba
pressure and 310 degree C temperature for the existing oil refinery. The second stage development
(G2 module) Is required to meet the balance of the heat demand, and provide additional power
generation capacity for the power system. MVM Rt has requested the World Bank to finance part of
this expansion under the (proposed) Energy and Environment Project.
Combined-Cycle Coaeneration Plant Under The ProDosed Prolect
3.    A feasibility study for the second stage development of the Dunamenti combined-cycle
cogeneration section has been completed by MVM Rt's consultants, ERBE and EROTERV of Hungary,
In September 1992. The new expansion under the proposed Project will indude a combined-cyde
cogeneration module (G2) consisting of a 145 MW gas turbine, a 300 t/h heat recovery steam
generator(HRSGI, a 25 MW back-pressure steam turbine and a 65 MW condensing steam turbine. For
ease of construction end operation the gas turbine of the G2 model wil be Identical to the gas turbine
of the GI module and directly procured from Selmens. The G2 gas turbine and HRSG will be installed
next to the GI module already constructed. HRSG wDi be unfired, dual-pressure designed to accept
the maximum exhaust temperature and gas flow of the connected gas turbine. The target
commissioning date for the G2 gas cyde wiU be December 31, 1995; for the combined-cycle
March 31, 1997.
Procurement
4.    The civil works will be procured locally through local financing. The combined-cycle major plant
equipment would be divided Into two single responsibiity contracts: one for the gas cycle (including
a Seimens gas turbinelgenerator, its auxiliaries and bypass exhaust), financed by MVM Rt's own
arrangement; and the other for steam cyde (including heat recovery steam generator, a back pressure
steam turbine/generator, a condensing steam turbine/generator, their auxiliaries, plant electrical
equipment, and Instumentation and controllf.inanced under the proposed World Bank loan and to be
procured through International competitive bidding (ICB) In accordance with the World Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Both sngle responsibility contracts would incdude design, manufacture,
supply, installation, testing and commissioning. The other minor auxiliary electromechanical equipment
will be procured locally.



- 78 
Annex 5.10
Page 2 of 3
Work Scope
5.    The plant conceptual design, technical specifications for gas cycle, detailed design for civil
works, and design and specifications for minor auxiliary electro-mechanical equipment are being
prepared by MVM Rt's local consultants (ERBE and EROTERV of Hungary). The detailed design,
equipment supply and execution of erection, start-up, testing and commissioning will be the
responsibility of the contractors (manufacturers). An Intemational consulting firm will be used to
provide the following support to MVM Rt. and Its consultant ERBE and EROTERV.
Stape I Services
(a)   assist In reviewing plant conceptual design (focus on interfadng of gas cycle, steam
cycle and their auxiliaries);
(bl   assist in reviewing technical speciffications for the gas cycle contract;
(c)   prepare draft bidding documents for the steam cyde contract (including plant electrical
equipment and l&C), and finalze the bidding documents after review; the technical
speciffcations should be of the performance type; and
(d)   assist In the pre-bid conferences, bid evaluation, preparation of bid evaluation report,
and contract negotiation for steawr cycle contract.
Staae 2 Services
(a)   assist In monitoring the interfacing for the engineering and design of gas cyde contract
and steam cycle contract;
b)   assist in reviewing shop drawings and other detailed drawings, technical documents,
and calculations submitted by the manufacturers of major equipment;
(c)   attend and provide assistance to MVM Rt and Tts local consultants in design Ualson
meetings organized by the gas cycle and steam cyde (incduding plant electrical
equipment and l&C) manufacturers;
(d)   provide support and advice to the owner of the project for monitoring the gas cycle,
steam cycde and combined cyde performance tests; and
(e)   provide any other consulting assistance that may be requested by the project
Implementation organization.
6.    In the review and preparation of bidding documents for major equipment, the consulting firm
should help to ensure that the contents of the varous contracts do not allow for any gaps or overlap
between the contracts.
7.    During both stages of services, the consultant should act In close cooperation with ERBE and
EROTERV, the local consultnts, and In the best Interest of MVM P., the project Implementation
organizaion.
Exoensas for International Consultina Firm
8.    The financial proposal should provide an Itemized estimate of the man-months and costs
involved In both stes of the services. The service chawges for Stage I and Stage 2 should be quoted
sepaately by the consulting firm. The contract wiNl cover both Stage I and Stage 2 servIces.



- 79 -
Annex 5.10
Page 3 of 3
Local Support
9.    MVM Rt, and Its local consultants, ERBE and EROTERV, wiil provide the following local support
for the project activities:
(a)   make available to the international consuling firn all the basic data, Information, and
documents needed to carry out its services; and
(b)   provide all the services required for the international consulting firm to carry out Its
work In Hungary efficiently, Induding office space, faciltes and supplies, telex
communication, local transportation to prolect site, transidion and copying services (at
MVM Rt's expenses).
Time Schedule
10. MaJor services provided by the international consulting firm (such as reviewing conceptual
design and preparation of tender documents) will be caried out In Budapest, Hungary.
11.   The international consulting services should be completed within the following time frame:
Scope of Services                                 Schedule Date of Completion
First Stare
Review plant conceptual design                          December 31, 1993
Review technical specification for gas cycle            December 31, 1993
Prepare draft tender documents for steam cycle          February 28, 1994
Finalize tender documents for steam cycle               April 15, 1994
Assist in pre-bid conferences and evaluate
bids for steam cycle                                 February 15, 1995
Second_ Stls
Assist in Interfacing                                   October 31, 1995
Assist in reviewing supplier's drawings                 December 31, 1995
Provide support In monitoring performance tests
(including gas cycle and combined cycle)             March 31, 1997
Saurce:     MVM At and Bsank Mission
October 1993



- 80 -
ANNEX P1
Dubnentl Combbined1Vel Coeert^nt
,ileuImde~mRab n l
A.rocrement Activities for Major eyiment                J CompBetion Date
.                     .. .                            -                     ,   l"-f&  
Technical Documentation for gas cycde available          January 31, 1994
Bidding documents for steam cycle available              February 28. 1994
Review and approval by IBRD                              March 31. 1994
issuance of bid documents for steam cycle                Aprl 15, 1994
Fst age technical bid opening                            July 15, 1994
Completion of evaluatos of technica bids                 October 15, 1994
Notification of firs stage evaluation result to bidders  November 15, 1994
Second stage commecia bid opening                        January 15. 1995
Completion of evaluation and comparison of commercial bids  Februay 15. 1995
Review and approval by IBRD                              March 15. 1995
Negotiadors and award of contract                        Apri 15. 1995
Start ste preparation                                    January 3. 1994
Start plant buiding conmuctIon                          March 1, 1994
Start erecton of gas turbine/generator and exhaust bypass  March 1. 1994
Testing of gas cyclo                                     August 31, 1995
Commissoig of gas cyce                                   December 31, 1995
Start eretion of HRSO                                    December 1, 1995
Start erectionOfIC                                       February 15, 1996
Start wereon and stem turbinesgeneato                    March 15. 1996
Tosftng of HRSG                                          October 31, 1996
Testing of steam turb__i*ne enrtrs                       October 31, 1996
Testg of combined cyle operation                         Fobruary 28, 1997
Commissioning of combined cyde coogeneraon plant         March 31, 1997
Soua:  MVM Rt and Sank Mission
October 1993



- 81 -
HUNGAi m                                   ANNEX 5. 12
l' AND ELN  PROJECT
KU l          _mmmtfo  D
A.Peasnn Ai*e fo M4o Eqdpe                                                       Completon Oat. 
Preqfltion document for Euergy Magment Systm  EMIS to be recived              May 10. 1993
by IBRD 1993
Approw i by IORO of prequgefoon document                                       May 17, 1993
Draft bid documn   for EMS to be retevd by iIMD                                September 30. 1993
Approval by IIID o1 bid docunts                                                November 15, 1993
MVM  t.      on   on praqualiflcation to be recelved by iIRD                   October 26, 1993
Approval by IIRD of MVMI Rt pequaifcton reommendatIon                          Novemuber 6, ¶993
iWsuanc of bid docunt for EMS                                                 December 23, 1993
First stage techil bid opening                                                March 31. 1994
Compietion of evaluaton of technioal bide                                     Juty 31. 1994
Approval by iSRD of evaluaion of technicl bide                               August 16. 1994
NoNeifcation of fr stg evluation remult to biddetr                             September 1S. 1994
Second stage commerelal bid opening                                            October 15. ¶994
Completion ot evaluation nd comperleon of commercal bids                      January 15 1996
Review and approval by iBMD                                                    Februay 15, 99S
Negotition and award of EMS contracts                                          Mach iS,1 995
Stt of EMS upgradig for NDC                                                    April 1t ¶996
Start itwtic. ef el Noe                                                        March 15, WC97
NeMS perfomawnc teat                                                          January 15, 1998
NDC WAS parail peration end switohover                                        March 31 1998
Start installation of RDC # I IDEDAS:a                                        June 15 1986
Stat in tlation of RDC # 2 (EDA&a)                                             September *5, 19WO
Start in talaton of RDC # 3 MTiTAx                                             March 15.1997
Start bnatation of ROC # 4 ELMWU                                               August 15, 1997
ROC   ¶ I performnce tet                                                       February IS. ¶997
ROC - 2 perfomame teat                                                         May 15. 1997
RDC - 3 peformance tStW                                                        October ¶5 1997
RDC * 4 perfloance tet                                                        April 15. 988
RDC -1 operationa                                                             Apri 15. 1997
rtDC - 2 opeatinal                                                            July 15, 1997
RDC - 3 opeaio                                                                 December 15, 1997
RDC - 4 operaonal                                                             Jun 30 1998
ntegrated systm commissioning                                                  December 31, 1998
o:  MVM It o   n4 9M sin
Ocoer 1993



- 82 -
HUNGARY                                      AN.' 5.13
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Prokect Oraanlzatign Chart
ProJect Management Team
suseo-               -    .          --.
EMS Project Implementation Team
e..   O.-    ---O -U-              ---- a - --         - 
.~~                              ~      ~~~~ Ii
I.e   -a-- ---------t-.-u_.---__ _     ._ ._. 
,-'Eme~~~~~~~~~~          I
gj  Ft. Gif            U    *..    .U.....N.N.S...  .....
!        Dt   [T 2t0  ff I                      Tf
wsesx __ _---0 ---O '---' ' Oa - - - a
EunamSnti ProJect Implementation Team
PR@CUEUeN1'  SNlNuaN(   PRONSETRU  Of lON*g
l¢efeineiWl   < MANAGE                etft
gM     Rt and Bunk Mison
Nomm1993



HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
DUNAMENtM COMBINED CYCLE COGENERATION PLANT
Implementaton Schedule
Calendar year        1993                   1994                  1995                   1996                   1997
Key Events                j
Caledar Month  JF||MJ|J DJ |F MA|J JA|ONO MJ IJ IASIIIJ FAMJJ|ASONDJ|FAMJJ_
Preparation of Bidding Documents
BIddinvg Process
Bid Evaluation
co
PROJECTION IMPLEMENTATION
CIVIL WORKS
Site Preparation
Gas Cycle Buildings                                    a
Steam Cycle Buildings
PLANT EOUIPMENT
Gasturbine/Generator                                                             E        cmf
HRSG & Auxilaules
Steam TufbiNeGenerators                                                                                                          I
and Auxiilartes
Instrumentation & Control                                                                                                                                i
Auxfliaiy Et1ctMech. Equipment
Transmsisaon                                                                                                                                              .
Source: MVM RI and Bank Miaion
Ocloher 1993.



HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
___________ ___   ______ _  ________ Implementation Schedule                                  _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _
Ptspsagaon ofP lUding Documents
*dd1i g I.
Bidding EaaU.   1
Cantact Negatlaton & Sir"in
installon Test a Orfnission
od NOC EMS
inslafltion Test A commission
df RTUs for NWO EMSa
NDC EMNSARTNIi        Sply
ntwallalon Test  Commission
df AbC EMS
Installation Test £Conuntss.on
* o RTUs for AtDO M
FASSOCIATED TELECOMMUNICATION
PvepasiOn ol Bidding Doctwnwts
OmBi EvaluatIo
Contract Negotation and Signin
manufactur and Supply of Teeomn
Iniaaton Tes & CommissOn
ci Telecom 
SYSTEM INEGFAATION TESTIN  a
COMMISSIOIN
Soeute MVM Atloud 9B* MIsson
ocobI9e01SS



- 85 -
ANNEX 5.16
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Dsbuement ScheduLe
Bank Fiscal      Semester    Cumulative    Project    Bank Prof ilel
Y e a r s     -  - ( U S $   m i l l i o n )   - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  t  - - - - - - - - -
1994
First Semester           0.0           0.0        0               0
Second Semester          s.o2          5.0        5               3
1995
First Semester           1.7           6.7        7              10
Second Semester          6.2          12.9        13             18
1996
First Semester          10.0          22.9        23             26
Second Semester         17.1          40.0        40             46
1997
First Semester          20.0          60.0        60             54
Second Semester         15.0          75.0        75             70
1998
First Semester          14.0          89.0        89             90
Second Semester          6.0          95.0        95             94
First Semester           3.8          98.8        99             98
Second Semester          1.2         100.0       100             100
1/ Standard disbursement profile for energy sector in Europe and Central
Asia Region issued on August 13, 1993.
2/ Transfer to Special Account.
Source          MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 86 -
ANNEX 5.17
HUNGRY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
9-DV*  Pla
TIMING                   STAPF WEEKS         |        STAFFING
CY 1994                    14 weeks            Bank resources  (14 weeks)
of which
- Task Manager   (5 weeks)
- Power Engineer  (5 weeks)
- Unspecified   (4 weeks)
CY 1995                    26 weeks            Bank resources  (26 weeks)
of which
- Task Manager   (8 weeks)
- Powe& Engineer  (8 weeks)
- EMS Consultant  (4 weeks)
L_______________________    _______________________   _  -  Unspecified  (6   weeks)
CY 1996                    26 weeks            Bank resources  126 weeks)
of which
- Task Manager   (8 weeks)
- Power Engineer  (8 weeks)
- EMS Consultant (4 weeks)
- Unspecified   (6 weeks)
CY 1997                    22 weeks            Bank resources  (22 weeks)
of which
- Task Manager   (6 weeks)
- Power Engineer  (8 weeks)
- EMS Consultant  (4 weeks)
- Unspecified   (4 weeks)
CY 1998                    18 weeks            Bank resources  (18 weeks)
of which
- Task manager   (6 weeks)
- Power Engineer  (6 weeks)
- EMS Consultant  (4 weeks)
- Unspecifie4   (2 weeks)
CY 1999                    12 weeks            Bank resources  (12 weeks)
of which
- Task manager   (6 weeks)
- Power Engineer  (4 weeks)
- Unspecified   (2 weeks)
Souce:    Bank mission
October 1993



- 87 -
Annex 5.18
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Environmental Assessment
Proposed Combined-Cvdle Coeneraffna Plant - Dunament Power Statfon
The first and most obsolete part of Power Station Dunamenti, the BEAD plant, is the basis of
the steam and hot water supply for the power station and the city of Szazhalombatta. The studies
examining the reconstruction of the plant deemed unavoidable have all justified the economic benefits
offered by a new, combined-cycle, gas turbine plant as against a conventional upgrading. In May,
1988 the decision was taken to implement the proposed solution in two phases.
Since that tdrie, several studies have been prepared for the second phase IG2). The present
feasibility study with its integrated environmental Impact assessment, which is focused on the
prerequisites of the construction of the entire second phase (gas turbine unit with heat recovery steam
generator and condensating turbine), can be regarded as the coratinuation of these efforts.
In accordance with the early planning phase a so-called preliminary environmental impact
assessment has been elaborated which, on the basis of the Information now available and on the
experience gained with other similar projects, highlights the expected significant impacts with special
regard to those which can be inflexible in later phases of the Project. Accordingly, the study discusses
the following topics:
-     assessment of Impact factors, potential impact procedures and impact receptors;
-     preliminary estimation of affected area, information on the environmental conditions
of the affected area;
-     selection of the relevant Impact procedures;
-     brief evaluation; and
-     proposed way to proceed with further investigation.
Sitice it would be impossible to enumerate all impacts and each variation thereof, the following
issues are addressed in the first place which are considered crucial by the decisionmea-s:
-     What types of environmental impacts can be expected?
-     To what degree is the impact expected to exert itself?
-     When is it due to occur and how long will it last?
-     Who or what will be affected?
-     Will it endanger keeping the environmental control limits?
This study describes the purpose of the Project and summarizes the expected results. It
analyses the possible altematives and arrives at the conclusion that the Implementation of the long-
term development of the electric power system proved to be the most advantageous. The subsequent
altematives would not be implemented at Power Station Dunamenti; therefore the altemative from the
point of view of the power plant is either the non-construction or postponement of the second phase
of the combined-cycle project. The analyses of several altematives elaborated to resolve the local heat
supply justified the fact that the implementation of the second phase of the combined-cycle gas turbine
project is the most favorable.
The fundamentals in the technical configuration of the G2 gas turbine unit are that in time and
space it is closely connected to the existing GI gas turbine. Accordingly, no essential differences can



- 88 -
Annex 5.18
Page 2 of 6
be expected In the main equipment and system configuration. The G2 gas turbine will be fired with
gas in the first place; however, eventual gas supply restrictions shall be taken Into account which may
necessitate oil-firing. Scheduled number of the annual equivalent operating hours is 8,000 of which
8S%, i.e., 6,800 hours will be gas-fired.
The target indicated In the investment program can be achieved with several types of similar
gas turbines. At the present stage of planning it is not yet known which manufacturer will be
entrusted to supply the major equipment of the plant. The feasibility study reckons with gas turbines
manufactured by Siemens AG, ABB, Mitsubishi and Elin (General Electric). The detailed environmental
impact assessment has been conducted with the technical parameters of the Siemens gas turbine. Its
main technical data correspond with those of the GI unit; however, its air pollution emissions are more
favorable. Compared to the other machines, the Siemens gas turbine has higher capacity, with very
good specific emission parameters. Due to technical development in the course of tendering
competition, more advantageous technical parameters than the presented ones may be obtained.
In the description of the Project the potential impact factors have been taken into account as
a first step in the possible impact process assessment. Thereafter the preliminary estimated impact
area has been outlined in space; the information available and revealed by our investigations on the
environmental condition of the affected area has been summarized. Upon examination of the
environmental elements and impact factorse the haF-tations formed by the organization of these
elements, in the first place settlements created fc .uman habitats have been subjected to complex
analyses. Finally, the health conditions of the population in the vicinity as the most Important impact
receptor Is presented.
It has been established that the construction, operation and removal of the G2 gas turbine unit
does not require extra space, and does not affect the geological and seismic conditions of the area.
The possibilities in the use of land surrounding the power plant will not be influenced by the new gas
t'irbine unit. The hydrology of the terrain will be disturbed by the groundwater table lowering only for
the duration of civil works and on completion of the construction the original conditions will be
restored. 1The erection of G2 will not change the picture of the landscape which will remain a typical
industrial settlement. It is considered important to have Identical stack heights for both gas turbine
units to lend an aesthetically attractive appearance to the entire plant.
Based on the magnitude of environmental impacts, air and noise control need more detailed
analyses and necessitate the identification of mitigation measures. On the basis of the available
information the air quality of the city of Szazhalombatta and its surroundings and noise pollution of the
vicinity of the power plant have been subjected to detailed analyses.
From the data measured between 1986 and 1990 by the air?quality monitoring stations within
and around the city it can be concluded that although the air quality data measured at the individual
monitoring stations show local peculiarities, air contamination of the town with gaseous components
(sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-oxides) can be characterized by the mean of the measured values. The semi-
annual mean value indicated that Szazhalombatta is one of the towns which has tile cleanest air in
Hungary. This can be explained (although not proved -- only presumed) by the extent of district
heating which well exceeds the national average and also by thoroughfares bypassing the town. The
gaseous pollution discharged by the power plant hits the ground surface outside the town. There is
a significant difference, mainly with sulfur-dioxide, between the heating season and non-heating season
(six months each). As for the nitrogen-oxides, heavier pollution during the heating season is caused
mainly by higher maximum concentrations, and these maximum values of nitrogen-dioxide deteriorate
the air of the town to a greater degree than the sulfur-dioxide. During winter months (with the
exception of 1989/90) that is why it fails to meet the air contro: regulations of Hungarian Standard
MSZ 21854-1990. However, there is an obvious trend of air improvement; exceeding the limits occurs
less and less frequently. It is characteristic that the average values at winter exceed the date
measured by the Hungarian regional monitoring station located in the 'clean' environment by very
small figures at the worst. It is worth mentioning that the semi-annual pollution measured in winter



- 89 -
Annex 5.18
Page 3 of 6
in Szazha-7mbatta Is considerably lower than it would be assumed on the basis of the authoritative load
Index. This emphasizes the fact that the air quality of the town Is misjudged not only by public opinion
but also by the authorities, at least in the field of sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen-oxides pollution.
Although the air pollution Impact characteristic of gas turbines associated with sulfur-dioxide
and nitrogen-oxides can be limited, in order to get a better picture on baseline pollution, air quality has
been analyzed also with other components.
Among the solid pollutants, soot concentration shows a similar typical annual train as sulfur-
dioxide: winter maximum and summer minimum are well perceivable. It can be felt that here too, a
diminishing trend prevails in the long run. In view of the average values, soot pollution is lower than
It would be assumed on the basis of the load index with the exception of the off-heating seasons in
1988 and 1990; however, due to the magnitude of the maximum values encountered, the
requirements solicited In MSZ 21854-90 were not complied w; h.
The highest annual average value of setting dust also complies with MSZ 21864-90; what is
more it even meets the regulations applicable for highly protected areas. The picture obtained with
monthly averages shows a wide variety ani no unambiguous diminishing trend can be followed as
discussed so far. One plausible explanation for this would be that the sampling procedures might
entrap not only the primary settled dust but also dust taken by the winds from the soil. The air quality
of the town with regard to average monthly settling dust was adequate in 1987 and in winter
1989/90, while owing to the volume of maximum values encountered in other periods the air quality
requirements of MSZ 21854-1990 have not been complied with. On the basis of average values, dust
pollution is lower than It would be assumed on the basis of the load index.
The experience related to health revealed at the eariy 1980's that heavy metal contaminations
in the air may have a crucial role. Despite this discovery, the metal content of fly dust adverse to
health was not analyzed at all or only to a very Umited extent in the past while the vanadium and nickel
content of settling dust were monitored over a long period of time.
The typical vanadium and nickel content of the fly dust both varied likely between 30 and 40
nglm3 in the past which amounts to some percent of the limit value applicable for the area in question.
The vanadium and nickel content measured in the settling dust at the beginning of the period
of examination as a rule considerably exceeded, in many cases even by magnitudes, the typical values
of the control area in Budaors. The amount of nickel in the settling dust deposited on the soil
diminished to one third or one-fifth during the period between the beginning and end of the
measurement period. The vanadium content shows an even marked reduction; during the four years
of the monitoring period it dropped to one-tenth or one-twentieth at Szazhaiombatta. By thm end of
the monitoring period several metering points measured values Identical with those detected at the
Budaors control area. During the same period of time no change occurred in the valued monitored at
Budaors. However, noteworthy though the variation of the vanadium and nickel content of the settling
dust may bo during the monitoring period, it does not Influence the degree of permissible ambient air
pollution and its evaluation from health aspects. Neither Hungarian Standard MSZ 21854-1990 nor
the intemational regulations (WHO Reg. Pubi. Euro. Ser NP0.23; EEC; TA-Luft'86; Worid Bank O.D.
4.01-1991) specify the vanadium and nickel content of settling dust, although the permissible limits
of toxic components, i.e., heavy metals (cadmium and lead) and other inorganic and organic matters
are stipulated. The reason is that particles typical of settling dust, namely, particles larger than 5-
10pm are filtered In the upper respiratory passages. Thus vanadium and nickel cannot exert toxic
effect.
As regards aomatic hydrocarbons, measured data of benzol, toloul and xylene are available. Multiple
exceeding both of the average values and maximum values have been revealed, although the trend is
apparently diminishing. The suspicion that these ae dangerous to health seems to be well-founded.
Benzol is a matter causing cancer; average of measured values, inhaled for 70 years may cause cancer



- 90 -
Annex 5.18
Page 4 of 6
in 14.4 cases in a population of 18,000 residents. It is a figure which cannot be neglected as
Insignificant rit compares with the risk involved with fatal bicycle accidents).
In 1980-81 the idea occurred that the ambient air pollution may be a factor in the increasing
number of respiratory diseases encountered among resident children. To clarify the causes of this
phenomenon, from 1983 comprehensive health surveys have been conducted, and was extended to
adult residents in 1987. The survey got stuck in the systematical arrangement of observations; the
real relationship between cause and effect failed to be revealed. Lately, the number of children taken
ill with respiratory diseases has declined. The health survey results conducted with adults have been
cormpared with those conducted in Debrecen. It could be established that among adult males the
number of diseases with malignant tumor is one-and-a-half times higher than in the control group. the
chronic respiratory diseases reducing breathing functions almost three times higher and allergic
dermatitis over three times higher in the control groupl Further examinations conducted in
Szazhalombatta indicate that the role of exposition at the work place is more significant than that at
the residential area. It Is interesting to note that the d!,;eases of the upper respiratory track are
considerably more frequent with residents living in prefz .scated concrete panel flats.
Noise level has been examined in the vicinity of the power plant. In addition to the data made
available for us, we have conducted measurings. With the expected values of additional noise
generated by unit GI the expected noise level values issued by the joint operation of all equipment of
the plant has been determined. Without further noise mitigating measures enforced after the
commissioning of G1, an increase in noise level which cannot be perceived by human hearing but can
be measured with instruments, will be anticipated in areas in the vicinity of the power plant where
slightly exceedances can be measured even now.
To assess the impact of the proposed gas turbine unit on the ambient air quality, stack height
has been deterrmined in accordance with the relevant Hungarian air quality regulations. As it Is known,
the stack of the GI gas turbine falls Into the category of 80<H1H00 m. Should the stack height be
selected to be 82m, the limits for both sources would be exceeded. Thus, in order to observe the
authorities' regulations, the stack height of G2 shall be selected above 100m. The same applies to
an eventual bypass stack of G2 unit. From a technical viewpoint it is difficult to accept and explain
these results. The Hungarian air quality regulations alone are the cause for them because they put high
emphasis on the number of polluting sources within one site and do not pay any attention at all to the
physical properties of flue gas emissions or to the duration of operation. To define individual limits,
we have conducted informative negotiations with the Air Quarity Control Department of the Ministry
for Environment and Regional Policy where it was indicated that on their part they would propose
establishing individual values which are stricter than the existing limits which are not expected to be
changed in the future.
Since the German regulations take into account the physical parameters of the discharged flue
gas for the determination of the required minimum construction height, the necessary stack height has
been determined also in this manner. For both the normal operation and bypass stack the results
showed 40 m stack height. To illustrate the impact of the different temperatures of discharged flue
gas under normal operation and from bypass stack (1 00°C and 500°C, respectively.J, the effective
stack height has been caleulated with the result of 229 m for normal stack and 544 m for bypass
stack. Thus, in technical terms we fail to see that it is justified to insist on the construction of a stack
height required by the Hungarian regulations; especially with a bypass stack where the effective stack
height is more than three times the normal stack.
According to the plant operation schedule assumed for the transmission calculations, with the
design load conditions G2 unit would operate for 8000 hours annually in terms of nominal capacity.
In the first and fourth quarter 85 percent of the operating time is scheduled for gas firing.
Transmission calculations have been conducted for two stack heights (82 and 102 m) in compliance
with Hungarian standard regulations. The expected additional load caused by sulfur-dioxide and
nitrogen-oxides emissions from the examined stack and expected air quality concentrations in terms



- 91 -
Annex 5.18
Page 5 of f
of averages in the winter and summer seasons and 30 minute averaged maximum concentrations
within the area up to 10 km around the plant have been determined.
The results of calculations covering longer averaging periods show that the six month and one-
year average concentrations of sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen-oxide caused by emissions from the
proposed G2 gas turbine unit of Power Station Ounamenti in the receptions of the environment are of
minor extend, of a magnitude of maximum some tenths ot a microgram/cubic meter. The six-month
average concemnations are several magnitudes lower than the specified annual average ambient air
quality Ulmits and even the maximum values amount to only up to three-hundredths of the background
pollution characterized by the mean of the measured values in the town. Thus the observance of the
air control regulations for longer averaging periods practically does not depend on the air pollutants
discharged from the stack of the proposed G2 gas turbine unit of Power Station Dunamenti. This
statement is valid for both stack heights.
The analyses of 30-minute averaged maximum has been concluded that for both stack heights
under examination. with oil firing, the absolute maximum sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen oxides
concentration will form at a distance of 1 to 2 km from the stack. The 30-minute sulfur-dioxide
concentraton could reach 4-5 percent of the air quality norm while that of nitrogen-oxides 11-13
percent. Thus the short-term norms so critical from the point of view of the air polluting impact of
power plants can be observed. Furthermore, it can be realized that there Is only a minor difference
between the tiwo stack heights examined.
Froru  .e above it can be concluded that the G2 gas turbine is capable of complying with the
strictest environment control regulations, and after the implementation of the Project the observability
of the air quality regulations will continue to depend on the variations of other polluting sources of the
plant. Detailed analyses of these sources are outside the scope of this study; however, the utilization
of the power plant is expected to change and this may involve the increase of total emissions.
Nevertheless, some suggestions can be made on the variations of the emissions from the power plant
In view of the results of the implementation of the entire gas turbine project.
As it is known, the G2 project together with G1 gas turbine now being commissioned are going
to replace the BEAD plant and relieve unit C. In accordance with the variation of the scheduled load,
the annual emissions from the heat supply part of the power plant wm be reduced drastically by 1995:
-     Sulfur-dioxide emissions recorded as high as 10,020 tons in 1991 will drop to 605
tons, which Is a 94% reduction;
-     Nitrogen-dioxides emissions will also diminish considerably, by about 35%, to go back
from 2,860 tons to 1,882 tons;
-     Soot and heavy metal particle emissions from the heat supply plant not dealt with
herein which accompany the present plant operation will practically be eliminated.
At the same time, the operation of the gas turbine plant will facilitate the observence of the
new authoritative limits applicable to KI stack, without the restrictions of the plant services. These
impacts, of course, point in the direction of the modemization of the exposure of the environment.
The approximate calculation to assess ambient noise Impact exerted by G2 gas turbine showed
that the power plant together with G2 gas turbine vill approach or sightiy exceed the Umt at the
planned construction boundary of the residential area. This implies that further noise mitigation
measures shall be taken in order to observe noise limits. The analyses of the dominant components
of the resulting noise level indicated that the surpluses are caused by the transformers facing the
residential area. It would be expedient to reduce the existing noise level to overcompensate the noise
increment caused by the gas turbine units. There are several possibilities to mitigate the problem: the
first steps have already been taken with success to construct a noise shield around the transformers.



- 92
Ar_nex 5.18
Page 6 c 3
The normal operation of GI and G2 gas turbines, according to plans, will replace part of the presently
operating units; thus the noise Impact to the workers" lodging and to Er8mdi Street wiU change
favorably. It will need a detailed noise source analysis to convert this improvement Into figures, which
can be done during the examination of the operation routing at a later phase.
On the basis of the available Information, data and analyses, it has been established that the
implementation and operation of the gas turbine unit proposed with the employment of the
demonstrated environment control methods will not impose dangers on the observability of the
environment control limits. Along with the other gas turbine (GI) it wil facilitate replacing the obsolete
BEAD plant. reducln1 the load of C units and thereby mitigating considerably the air pollutant emissions
(sulfur dioxide. nitrogen-oxides, soot, heavy metals) from the heat supply part of the power station and
moderating the ambient noise Impact generated by the plant.
An essential factor from the point of view of the middle-ranged development program of the
Hungarian electric power system and the implementation of the nationwide air quality control concept
Is thet the cogeneration unit as an important element ot these programs, thanks to its better total
energy conversion efficiency more favorable than the conventional one and due to its technological
requirements, with its necessarily more favorable flue gas emission characteristics, wil facilitate the
implementation of a power plant construction strategy In compliance with the Hungarian and
intemational environment protection disciplines, which Is socially acceptable; and which is capable of
reducing our Import-dependence and will Impose less constraints on the economy of the country.
As required by the World Bank policy on Envire -mental Assessment (O.D. 4.01) affected
groups and local non-govemmental organizations INGOs) are expected to be consulted in the
preparation of the EA. For this Project aO groups were consulted by means of a local television call-in
procedure broadcast from the Office of the Mayor of Szazhalombatta. The program consisted of
Introductory remarks by MVM Rt and ERBE officials describing the purpose of the meeting, a movie
describing the Project and Its advantages in reducing pollution, and questions and answers by call-In
to the TV station. Most questions centered around aspects of air pollution and its control and all
inquiries were sathfactorily addressed. Based upon this consultation it was concluded that no
opposition was voiced by local affected parties against the proposed project.
Source:     MVM Rt
October 1993



- 93 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 4
HUNGA-RY
EN=Y AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MVMT - INCOME STATEMENTS
IHUF Mlihon)
-__________________  ___1988    1989__   1990    1991   _i992-
IRevenues                  99.678  104.095  123.373  160,546  159,724
Elecity & Heat Sales      94,245   97,908  116,788  153,221  145,949
Other Revenues             5,433    6,187    6,585    7,325   13,775
Expenses                   68.926   76.236   87,873  133,013  148,736
ruels                     27,239   28,721   35,708   52,459   57,379
Purchased Eecticity        9,264   10,369    9,857   24,438    9,895
Materiais                  7,807    8,302    9,853   12,013   13,500
Wages & Sailaries          6.412    7.773   10,300   13,729   20,394
Contracted Services        4,975    5,253   5S659    7,460    8,670
Others                     5,003    7,056    7,077   13,126    9,313
Depreciation               8,225    8,762    9,419    9,788   29,585
Operating Income           30,753   27,859   35,500   27,533   10,988
Interest Payments             864      975    1,571    3,098    2,903
Provision for Paks Nuclear PRant    5,627    5,631    5,663    5,324    1,335
Other Deductions            1,324    2,570    2,810    1,807    4,353
||Taxes                    22,965   17,314   18,321    6,528    1,293
Net Income                    127)   1,369    7,135   10,776    1,104
* As of Januay 1992, MVMr was coporatized into MA Rt
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 94 -
Anrex 3.1
Page 2 of 4
HUNGARY
ENERGY ANDQ NVIRONMENT PROJECT
MVMT - BALANCE SHEETS
(HUF Million)
__________ ______   1988  I__989  1990  1991    J992*
ASSETS                     170,539  183,141  197.841  223,297  622.587
Current Assets              26,243   31.608   37.262   66,027   69.882
Cash                        3,209    2,655    2,844    3,270    4,742
Accounts Recevabte          3,679    6,242    9.165   10,447   23,822
Inventory                  16,215   18,297   21,730   25,615   27,863
Others                      3,140    4,414    3,523   16,695   13,455
Fixed Assets
Gross Value               215,457  228,654  243,111  259,350  569,653
Less: Accumulated DeprecIation  (82,624)  (90,236)  (98,962) (107,692)  (29,462
Net Value                 132,833  138.418  144.149  151,658  640.191
Work in Progress           11,463   13,115   16,430   15,612   12.514
LIA8ILITIES & EQUITY       170,539  183,141  197.841  223.297  622.587
Current Uabilities           8,330   11.851   14,544   32.890   24.240
Accounts Payable            3,923    4,341    6,837    7,792   13,930
Short Term Debt             2,328    3,219    3,500    5.599    6,176
Others                      2,079    4,291    4,207   19,499    4,134
Long Term Debt               7,179    ',261    7,097    5.946   19,183
Equity                    155,030  164,029  176,200  184,461  579,164
Paid In Capital           155,030  164,029  176,200  178,431  511,222
Reserves & Retained Eamings    0        0        0    6,030   67,942
* As of Jauuary 1992, MVMT was soporatzed into VM PRt
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- vs -
.Ann= 6.1
Page 3 of 4
HUNGAIIY
ENE6Y AND ENVIRONMENT PROJE
DUNAMENTI - INCOME STATEMENTS
IHUF Million)
___________________________        1989       1990       1991      1992' 
Revenues                             6.866      8.022     12,836     13.704
ElectrIity Sa                       5,203      6,385     10,802     11,309
Hest Sale                           1,468      1,584      1,938     2300
Other Revenues                        195         53         96         95
IExpenses                           f6.631      7.859     13,175     13.088
Fuels                               4,708      5,765     10,167      9,500
Material                              286        440        358        573
Purchsed Servies                       12          9        123        730
Wages & Salarbs                       265        342        480        790
Others                                957        892      1,681        293
Depnecbion                            423        411        386      1,202
Operating Income                       235        163       (339)       616
Non-Operating Incoen (Expense)        (112)       238        606       (198)
Interest Payments                        6         21         29        158
Taxes                                  117        373        238        104
St Incomie                               0          7          0        156
* is of January 1992. Dunamenti was transformed Into, Dunamenti Rt., a joint stock company as
a part of the MVMT's corporatization.
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 96 -
AneL.1
Page 4 of 4
HUN6ARY
ENREGY AND ENVIFIONMENT PROJECT
DUNAMENTI - INCOME STATEMENTS
(HUF Milion)
,______________________  _ .  .1989       1990       1991       1992*
6.213      9.486       9.696     37.410
Crrent Assets                          1.693      3.026      2362       2Z520
Cash                                    235         44         218        876
Accounts Receivable                     102        524         155        363
InventoIs                             1,274       2,125      1.802       1.132
Other                                    82        333         187        149
Fxed Asse
Gross Value                          11,014      11,279     11,463     32,058
Less Accuunwltd Deprecatdon          (7,050)    (7,456)      (7,697)    (1,202)
Net Value                             3.964      3.823       3.766     30.854
Work In Proress                         556      2637       3.568       4.036
LIAILITIES & EQUITY                    6.213      9.486       9.696     37.410
Current hLabili                        1,452      2.945       2,168     2Z261
Accounts Payable                        540       1,406        827       1,050
ShortTerm Portion of Long Term Debt     912       1,539      1,341       1,211
Long Term Debt                            84        147         147         140
Equitl                                 4,677       6.394      7.381      35.009
As of January 1992, Dunamenti was transformed into, Dunamenti Rt., a joint stock company as
a part of the MvMrs corporaizon.
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 97 -
AINEX 6 X
Page 1 ot 
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ,INVIRONMENT PROJECT
Notes and Assumotions for Financial Prolectlonh
General
1.    All Information are expressed in constant values (1993 Hu Ftl. Figures for 1993 are based
on nine months actual and three months estimated data.
2.    A Mid-Term Business Plan for 1993 to 1995 was developed by MVM Rt in October 1992;
the Bank Mission reviewed the plan and found it acceptable. Relevant portions of the plan
are used in the financIal projections up to year 2000.
3.    Depreciation Is calculated on the basis of following rates:
3.33% for buildinos;     3.63% for structures;
5.00% for machine.'y;    7.00% for communication equipment;
15.00% for vehicles; and  16.00% for instrumentations.
These are in accordance with Hungarian legislation on Corporate Income Tax.
MVM fit
I. Income Statments
4.    Electricity sales for 1994 and 1995 were estimated to decrease slightly from previous Yer
as the GDP Is expected to decline during the period. Electricity sales are projected to
increase by an annual average of about 2% from 1996. Heat sales of 1994 and 1995 are
also estimated to decrease slightly, but are expected to stay at the 1995 level for the
period of 1996 to 2000.
5.    Average eletricity and heat revenues In 1993 are based on nine months actual and the
months estimated values. Average revenues between 1994 and 1996 are based on tarff
adjustment program planned by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MM; U) 20%, 20%
and 15% Increase for average residential tariff In 1994, 1995 and 1996 respectively; (ii)
5% Increase for average non-residential tariff each year In 1994 and 1995; and (HI) 20%,
20% and 10% increase for district heating for 1994, 1995 and 1996 respectively (the 15%
increase would largely compensate for the areal cost increases"). Residental tariffs wer
forecast to increase by 2% in 1997 and 1998 and remain constant thereafter.
6.    Other revenues are mainly from construction and miscellaneous (repair) services, and based
on experience, are estimated to represent between 4-6% of total revenues.
7.    Average fuel price In 1993 Is on the basis of nine month actual data, and prices for futre
years were assumed to stay at that level.
8.    Wages and Salaries are estimated on the basis of the projected staffing needs between
1994 and 2000. Total number of employees is expected to gradually reduce from 33,500



- 98 -
ANNEX e 2
Page 2 of
in 1993 to a 31,500 in 1995; and estimated to remain at that level thereafter. Wages and
salaries Include social overhead costs such as pension payments and contribution to the
unemployment fund.
9.    Annual volumes of imported electricity are estimated on the basis of priusted demand and
domestic generation capacities.
10.   Other operatg cost items include expenses such as building cleaning and maintenance and
training. The projections are based on MVM Rt's Business Plan, taking Into account the
forecasted production levels and mix for each year.
11.  In calculating the provision for decommissioning Paks, the plant characteristics were
assumed to be similar to a Finnish nuclear plant. It was assumed that lAEA's Stage 3
process would be carried out with no surveillance period, no "greenfieldu status (only the
radioactive plant would be removed), waste would be disposed of in purpose-built
repositories constructed on site; spent fuel management would not be included in the
decommissioning costs.
12.   Corporate income tax has been based on the current tax rav4s and regulations.
11. Balance Sheets
13.   The values reflect the asset revaluation carried out In December 1991. Previous asset
revaluation took place in 1962. The 1991 revaluation increased the asset values by about
3.8 times.
14.   On the basis of MVM Rt's Business Plan, accounts receivable was; forecasted to be about
11-12% of annual revenues; accounts payable was forecasted to be about 12-13% of
annual expenses.
15.   Gross fixed asset values and accumulated depreciation are net of asset retirement.
16.   Long Term Debt Includes loans from the World Bank, EIB and commercial banks.
Dunamenti Rt
17.   Production levels of electricity between 1994 and 1995 are based on the production plans
included MVM Rt's Business Plan, and levels thereafter are estimated by Dunamenti, taking
into account of the generation capacity from project. Production levels of heat are
estimated on the basis of proJected demand from the adjacent refinery and local customers.
18.   Price of electricity In 1993 and 1994 are based on the contracted price between Dunamenti
and MVM Rt. Average prices for 1995 and 1996 were increased by 4% annually and
thereafter 1% each years.
19    Fuel cost is estimated as indicated in para 7 of this Annex taking into account the
production mix and levels at Dunamenti.
Source:     MVM Rt, Dunamenti Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 99 -
Page 1 of3
hUNGARY
ENERGY AND RNVTRONMENT PROJECT
MVM Rt. - Projected Income Statements
11FMillon)
1993      1994  1  199S       1996    Im     I IM            1 1999  1 2000
PreUmb                                        Foreast
SaF  (aft)                           27A       26X,s 315 6,720    27,190    17,770    23,830    29,500    30,000
Reddila                                     10,000    10,200    10.650    11,050    11,470    1L,W      12,200    12,400
NowReAdoodl                                 17,568    16,615    16,070    16,140    16,300    16,930    17,300    17,C00
Bea S    (FJ)                                43,995    4,8,70    48,370    48,370    48,370    48,370    43,370    48,370
-Ras                                        159,953   166A48S   133,473   IC,,423   205,899   217,30   221,426   224,539
Ele riodbi1 Sal.                            127,027   133,491   145,939   157,058   163,915   173,856   177,919   1803W,$
RmEidentil                                  36,200    44,268    55,465    66,190    72,146    78,540   80,520    81,840
,, NonaRcuIdmlW                             90,827    89,223    90,474    90,868    91769    95,316    97,399    99,088
Heag Sale                                    18,725    22,587    26,827    29,510    30,985    32,S35    32,535    32,535
O6hmrSR*VaW                                  14,206    10,407    10,707    1,855      099 999    109     1972    11,076
151,396   159,975   160,349   164Jdl6  169,374   176,229   181045   17,W92
Fuds                                         54.786    60,245    60,754    62,831    64,944    68,033    69WA66    70,898
IgVtd Iu6PWUboSuEo duI; y                     6,100     3.680     2,250     1"549     1,373     1,373     1,373    1373
op"samiA M aaitnunce                         36,210    35,715    3S5652    35,966    36,349    37,043    37,474    37,791
W  Ess A sobae.                              25,500    25,245    24,993    24,743    24,495    24,250    24,003    23.768
NAvlr.unmsAcaFm                                  0       750      120.0    1,206      1,224     1,249     1,174     1,299
Odw                                              0      2,330     2,330     2,342     2.377     2,424     2,473    2,523
D.jireshtioi                                 29,300   32,010    33,171    36,180    39,112    41,857    44l778    50,040
Nusem=m                               3E0C2    6,509    23,124    32,607    36,025    41,134    40,M31    36,847
Entrbwlf..: ,u                                2,205     2,007     1,939     1,963     1,331     20113     4,257     7,89
bDef  TaOM                              5,357     4,502    21,185    30,644    34,194    39,21    36,124    23,949
Tax                                    937     10669    6Om96      9,G43     3,781     14522     8,623     8,624
income                                       4,920     2,33    14,289    20,801    2S413    30C499    27,501    20,325
xdopsdaU                                   1,587     4,467    10,033    11;Z86    13,547    15,836    15,904    15,973
Dividmds                                         0      1,467     6,038     6,286     6,547     6,836     6,904    6,973
ReP_a                                         1,587     3,000     4,000     5,000     7,000     9,000    9,000     9,000
R ed_  t                               3,333    (t-X  9,515    11,8C6   14,S6     11,597                    4352
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



o°~ ~ I Ifi    W     C1W11g  I
tDB  SW~~~~
0,ii              .'I_
8  1sIsIt:tg|Xt!
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  -  l  _                  B
1 ; i s i i*  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __i_ _ _ _g  [  
,~~~~~~~~~
@4~~~ t..i1           S   §2     Q^



- 101 -
Anmex6.3
Page 3 of 3
HUNGARY
ENRGY AND ENVIRONMENT }ROJECT
MVM Rt - Projected Fund Flow Statements
1993      1994    1 9S 1   1996    1 997    1           1999    1999   2000
SORCES                                        41,107    47,478    7141    79,7124    8,377   1063    1175    157
Guzuted Sourm.                       37,362    38,59       6,5    63,786    75,37    82,991         9       86,3s7
Opasalinglnom                                 8,62      6,509    23,124    32,607    36,025    41,134    4081    36,847
MD weidido                                 29,300    32,010    33,171    36,180    39,112    41,857    44,778    50,040
2,375     7484    13,666      9,338     8,S40    21,743    31,0      37,0
ca;sui                               1,370     1,475     l1,50     1600      1.700       W00      1         I,3
LICATIONS                                  41,07    47,478    71,461    79,724      s,377   104,34   1175    125,7
e_meata                                     19,214    2,28        46      528       66,479    683       77,841      ,9
De8S&                                         11.01     11,09     13,3    14,359    13,635    14,904    17,148    2,7389
_atwg                                         2,205     2,007      1,939     19        1,831     2,013     4,257     7,898
R    _ fAp Lom                                8,805     9,086    11,134    12,396    11,804    12,391    12,891    12,891
T                                               937      1669       396    9gm         8731      3622      3623       64
0     1,467     6,038     6,26       ,47       6,        N04       6973
Rea                                       1537      3000      4000      5000      7000      9000                 gm
im Waking Capial                          796    (2,135)        66     1,706      (133)    2,259      (192)    (C
in Cash and Fanc    e                    7,5633,11         (10,076)   (91)  (16,932)   (3,470)   (1,3C           556
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 102 -
Annex C4
Page 1 of 3
HUN%RY
DUNAMENTI Rt. - Projected Income Statements
(HUF MMion)
1993       994    199 5"      199C      197        199i      1999 1  2000
-                        -  d-i            Forefst
Ewlir*dt aws(GWh)                          4,963       ,9S-5  6,224    64842         7,065     7,06S      7,06    - 7.065
lde .. (r1)                                8,384     8,105      8,105     8.105     8.105 81105          8S105      8,105
R7eno, 77    22,964    24,721    27,862    28,938    29,199    29S46                                               29,72
Eleduidly Salt                            14,790    20,158    21,911    25.050    26.125    2C;38C6   26650    26917
8.dsb1                                     2.854     2,770     2.770      2,770     2,770     2.770      2.770     2,770
OdwIRauEing                                  33         36        40        42         42        42        42         42
16.436    19,679    20.958    2982    23,732    23,824    23,911    24005
--e".                                     12,528    14,908    15,527    16,952    17,505    17,505    17,505    17.505
maabius                                     620        871       976      1,64      1,098      1.098     1.098     1,098
Cnand*dSwviww                               711        836       936      1,021     1.054      1054      1,054     1.054
W.6. * Sai"e                                954       ,201     1,493      1845      IJ882     1,920      1,958     1,998
WM...                                       165        177       197       215        217       219       222        224
Deprlim                                    1.459     1,687     1,828      l,88     1975      2,027      2,074     2,127
Jom                                1,240     3,285     3,764    4A880       5.206     5,375      5,551     5,724
eaOperag JasInoe2                          (417)     (518)      (590)     (644)     (644)      (644)     (644)      (
Fajazmnt.                             156       154        242       683       850        835       779        717
B IEbre Tss                           668      2,613      2,932     3,553     3,711      3,895     4,128     4,363
orporswe Tax                                267      1,045     1173 1421           1,484     1,558    IASI       1,74
Rled Ebamnna                                 401      1568      1,759     2,132      2U227 2I337          2,477     2,618
Source:   MVM  Rt and  Bank Mission
October  1993



- 103 -
Annex GA4
Page 2 of 3
HUNGARY
ENIERGY AND MENiQNMENT OJECT
OUNAMENTI Rt. - Projecitd BSalnce Shoot
(HUF Million)
to"        1994   i1996   i  199           1997       1 991    1999 1  2000
-              --                    -      myFor         -          -     
33W  4. .            47,0       5         64,019     15,7       57,       59,407I
Amb                                   3,4         ,7s       50        A3         53         51         691        ,
Cub &  ak                                   16 A2      2420      2,613      2.330      2,810     3,226      3.513      3,656
A.antflReamvb                                 417       435        445       455        455        455        47        502
Invi-                                       1500       1920       170       2.00       2,130    2%190       2300       2414
bnaed_ub                                0          0         0          0      250        4,00       6,50      900
Amob
armV                                       33327    34147    35.365        50,62      S1t982    53.352     54,592     55,962
.- A_..ulabd Dedah                          20661      4W348     6,176      3061      10,037    12,064     14,139     16.265
N-   v,tk                                  30666    2799        29U9       4 1        41.94     41,233     40453    39,7
Woakkthpte                                  4,6        5,96      324        4136       4136      46         44         4096
42        4          42        42         42         42        4a         42
& EQUITY                       3          40,2      47,50t     5 4        S4,019      5,737    57         59,407
IbMU.                                2,666      2,790      2,3       2,389      303        3,03      3,09       3,9
TuDA                                      124      1141      604        %014       7,9       77         cm         54
squw                                        350        36A70     339        40,71      42a3      45,325     47,302      0,419
PWdinCmvWIntCqmpa1Remw                     34,746    34,746     34,746     34,746     34,746    34,746     34.746     34,746
btahsdlaahap                                  $57      2,124     3          6,015      3,242    10,579     13,056     15i6T
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 104 -
Page 3 of 3
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJEM=
DUNMMENTI Rt. - Ptojected Fund Flow Statements
(HUF Millon)
1993       1994      IM     1  1996       1997   I  199    I 999   i  2000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                  Fornc s
UWRCES                                   2,213     5487       928O      8148      6,537      6,758     6,         720
Llentomt CAmeam   siuroes                  2213       4,454     5,001      6,121     6,537     6,758      6.9S2     7,207
Operating                                  I'wnm 1.240  3.285  3,764      4,880    5S206       5.375     5,551     3,724
Noa.OperatingJbnwoo                         (417)     (512)     (590)      (644)     (644)     (644)      (644)     (644
add Dqveont                             1459      1,687     1.828      1,885     1,975     2,027      2,074     2,27
0     1,033      4,372     2,026         0         0          a         0
IBRD                                          0        561     2,202      1,554         0         0         0          0
OChos                                         0       472      2,676       472          0         0         0          0
APPLICAITIONS                               2,283     5,427     9,880      8,148     6,537     6,758      6,922     7,207
lmvedmfft                                   1,271     2,770     8,474      6,211     1,300     1,270      1,450     1,220
Fiished                                    1,271       820     1,218      6,1%      1,300      1,270     1,240     1,220
Work    1m!                                   0      1,950     7,256        15          0         0       210          0
bSaer                                      172       170       253        699       866    l1a         1.6        1,6
litered                                     156        154       242       623        850       835       779        717
Repaynut ofLous                              16         16        16        16         16       625       681        743
T                                           267      .045      1,173     1,421      1,484     1553      1,651      1,745
Q hWordfgtCq*ibl                      (123)      514       (18)       99        (4)        54        132       139
In Csh and Fbuad hIvesents            756        988 -        )      (2)    2,20         2,416     2,288     2,642
Source: MVM Rt and Bank Mission
October 1993



- 105 -                                          ANNEX 7.1
HUNGARY
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
RXat of Retum on Dunanend Cond*ed-Cvde Comen
(USS mon)
I lOwiunamend }  T&D                              Elac-
1993             4.2                                                          -                           4.2
Year        OunameutG2        I  Fue          Q2         Depre   |  T & D      tricity    IHeat         N ?et
Inveatmentost b/                0 & MW~ £j claron dl    0 Oa &W Me    Revenue itY  Revenue sJ   Beneflts|
1994              3.2                                                                                     -3.2
1995             25.4                                                                                    -25.4
1996             74.2                                                                                    -74.2
1997             43.7                                                                                    .43.7
1998             0.3             30.57        4.64        4.6        1.62       62.64       9.4          30.85
1999                             30.S7       4.54         4.6        1.52       62.64       9.4           30.8
2000                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2001                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2002                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2003                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2004                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.62       62.64        9.4          30.8
2005                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2006                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2007                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2008                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2009                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.62       62.64        9.4          30.8
2010                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2011                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2012                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
2013                              30.57       4.54        4.6        1.52       62.64        9.4          30.8
tRR-=0.158
jI/    Includes physical contngences, but excludes Inport duties and taxes.
kI     11.28 mnllonGJ attheeconomic costofUS$2.71/GJ. Assumes net electricy geion of 1320 GWh (6500 hours per y, 196MHn and heat
supply of 2555 TJ.
e/     3% of total capi cost of $151.2 mNon.
dl     Deprecation hI transmsion (US$S3.S mlon) and dIbtihon (US$129 millin), dMvided by 1989 sales of 33,923 GWh and multiplied by
Dunamen net generatin adJusted for 10.9% losses In T & D (1176 GWh).
ae     1% of tansom    and distIbudon invesms. assnumed to be 33 times depreciadon.
f      Electricity sales from Dunamenti 11176 GWh) at 1992 average revwnue for MVM of US$0.053/kWh
i/     Heat sas from Dunamnti 02 to the Dautbe Refinery at the 1993 prke of US$3.67/GJ.



BR 245R
COAL    fIELD   AREA                        2I
HUNGARY                                  Harowd Ccol Uii                                     K R   IN-
ENERGY ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                          Ha-r Cccl       j-|                                 K I
POWER SECTOR                             2   Noticoei Capitol
C.Ise
k    S      E SLOVAK RE PUBIC LI                             /
48- ~         2
A     U   S     Y   R     I   A   <SXl'Z<
* C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA
4;d~~~~~~~~~~~ ¾                                                                       tg .      ,k:Ntdoc
FtAL,<9,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ .tq.:..* 4fAI
SsrAY>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ADA~~~PEST
rf r
);4r -K|  '                                                   6>^fftl  1g  M NLooRCcs
~~~~~~pN      d  ,r<                   ii)  < 4,  '  f   
LAW&       Q.                  512053400 Of_o
CL/A                              Vt r                             NmClear  . Pot
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                                   PLANNED2,Eos  ST_____________A_
bccadorlae.                                                                                      0  Theonc~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-  U  i- Powr toce
750 HotecPiW s
40t kV



