n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X                       .-. .......t., . - :. .. . .. . 
>   >   e  1  a... X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
*    basE   -.-  ,-  ,,  -  @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
9 11 -'u-n



SUIMMARY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Proposed  Combined Cycle. Cogenntin2  Plant - Dunamenti Power Station
The first and most obsolete part of Power Station Dunamenti, the BEAD plant is the basis
of the steam and hot water supply for the power station and the city of Szazhalombatta
The studies exmining the reconstruction of the plant deemed unavoidable have all
jusdfied the economic benefits offered by a new, combined cycle, gas tubine plant as
against a conventional upgrading. In May, 1988 the decision was brought to implement
the proposed solution in two phases.
Since that time, several studies have been prepared for the second phase (G2). The
present feasibility study with its integrated environmental impact assessment which is
focused on the prerequisites of the construcdon of the entire second phase (gs turbine
unit with heat recovery steam generator and condensating turbine) can be regarded as
the continuation of these efforts.
In accordance with the early planning phase a so-called preliminary environmental impact
assessment has been elaborated which, on the basis of the information now available and
on the experience gained with other similar projects, highlights the expeced significant
impacts with special regard to those which can be inflenxble in later phases of the project.
Accordingly, tihe study discusses the followng topics
-     assessment  of impact factors, potential impact procedures and impact
receptors,
-     prdiminary estimation of affected area, information on the environmental
conditions of the affected area,
-     selection of the relevant impact procedures,
-     brief evaluation,
-     proposed way to proceed with fuirther investigation.
Since it would be impossible to enumerate all impacts and each variation thereof, the
followig issues are addressed in the first place which are considered crucial by the
decision makers:
-     What types of the environmental impacts can be expected?
-     To what degree is the impact expected to exert itself?
-     When is it due to occur and how long will it last?
-     Who or what wi be affected?
-     Wil it endanger to Ieep the environmental control limits?
This study descrbes the purpose of the project and summarizes the expected results.
It analyses the possible alternatives and-arrives at the conclusion that the implementation
1



of the long-term development of the electic power system proved to be the most
advantageous.  The subsequent alternatives would not be implemented at Power Station
Dunamenti, therefore the altemative from the point of view of the power plant is either the
non-construction or postponement of the second phase of the combined cycle project.
The analyses of seveal altematives elaborated to resolve the local heat supply justified
the fact that the implementation of the second phase of the combined cycle gas turbine
project is the most favourable.
The fundamentals in the tehnical configuration of the G2 gas turbine unit are that in fime
and space it is closely connected to the existing GI gas turbine. Accordingly, no
essential differences can be expected in the main equipment and system configuration.
G2 gas turbine willbe fired with gas in the first place, however, eventual gas supply
restrictions shall be taken into account which may necessitate  oil-firing. Scheduled
number of the annual equivalent operating hours is 8000 of which 85%, i.e. 6800 hours
willbe gas-fired.
The target indicated in the investment program can be achieved with several types of
similar gas turbines.  At the present stage of planing it is not known yet which
manufacturer will be entrusted to supply the major equipment of the plant. The feasibility
study reckons with gas turbines manufactured by Siemens AG, ABB, Mitsubishi and EHn
(General Electric). The detailed environmental impact assessment has been conducted
with the technical parameters  of the Siemens gas tuinre  Its main technical data
correspond with those of the Gl unit, however, its air pollution emissions are more
favourable. Compared to the other machines, the Siemens gas turbine has higher
capacity, with very good specific emission parameters. Due to technical development in
the course of tendering competition, more advantageous technical parameters than the
presented ones may be obtained.
In the description of the project the potential impact factors have been taken into account
as a first step in the possible impact process assessment.  Thereafter the preliminary
estimated impact area has been outlined in space; the information available and revealed
by our mvestigations on the enviroment condition of the affected area have been
summarized. Upon the examination of the environment elements and impact factors, the
habitations formed by the organization of these elements, in the first place settlements
created for human habitats have been subjected to complex analyses. Finally, the health
conditions of the population in the vicinity as the most important impact receptor is
presented.
It has been established that the construction, operation and removal of the G2 gas
turbine unit does not require extra space, and does not affect the geological and seismic
conditions of the area. The possibilities in the use of land surrounding the power plant
will not be influenced by the new gas turbine unit. The hydrology of the terrain willbe
disturbed by ground water table lowering only for the duraton of civil works and on
completion of the construction the origiral conditions will be restored. The erection of
2



G2 wilinot chnge fte picture of the landscape which willremain a typical industrial
settlement. It is considered important to have identical stack heights for both gas turbine
units to lend aethetically attractive appearance  to the entie plant.
Based on the magnitude of environmental impacts, air and noise control need morm
detailed analyses and necessitate the identification of mitigation measures. On the basis
of the available information the air quality of the city of Szazhalombatta  and its
surroundings and noise pollution of the vicinity of the power plant have been subjected
to detailed analyses.
From the data measured between 1986 and 1990 by the air quality moniting stations
within and around the city it can be concluded that although the air quality dat measured
at the individual monitorng stations show local peculiarites, air contamintion of the town
with gaseous components (sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-oides) can be cr      by the
mrlean of the measured values. The semi-annual mean value indicate that Szazhalombata
is one of the towns which has the cleanest air in Hungary. This can be explained -
although not proved, only presumed - by the extent of district heating which well exceeds
the national average and also by thoroughfares by-passing the town. The gaseous
pollution discharged by the power plant hits the ground surface outside the town. There
is a significant difference, mainly with sulfur-dioxide, between the heating season and non-
heating season (six months each). As for the nitrogen-oxides, heavier polludon during
the heating season  is caused mainy by higher maximum  concentraons, and these
ma.imum values of nitrogen-dioide deteriorate the air of the town to a greater degree
than the sulfur-dioxide and during winter months (with the exception of 1989190) ffiat is
why it fails to meet the air control regulations of Hungarin Standard MSZ 21854-1990.
However, there is an obvious trend of air improvement, exceedings the limits occur less
and less frequent It is characteristic that the average values at winter exceed the date
measured by the Hungarian regional monitoring station located in the "clean' environment
by very small figures at the worst It is worth mentioning that the semi-annual pollution
measured at winter in Szazbalombatta is considerably lower than it would be assumed
on the basis of the authoritative load index. This emphasizes the fact that the air quality
Of the town is mijudged not only by the public opinion but also by the authorities at least
in the field of sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen-oxides pollution.
Although the air pollution impact characteistic of gas turbnes assocated  with sulfur-
dioxide and nitrogen-oxides can be limited, in order to get a better picture on baseline
pollution, air quality has been analyzed also with other components.
Among the solid pollutants soot concentration shows a smirlar typical annual train as
sulfu-dioxide: winter ma-ximum and summer minimum are well perceivable. It can felt that
here too, a diminishing trend prvails in the long run. In view of the average values soot
pollution is lower than it would be assumed  on the basis of te load index with the
excepdon of the off-heating seasons in 1988 and 1990, however, due to the magnitude
3



of the maximum values encountered the requirements solicited in MSZ 21854-90 were not
complied with.
The highest annual average value of setding dust also complies with MSZ 21854-90; what
is more it even meets the regulations applicable for highly protected areas. The picture
obtained with monthly averages shows a wide vanety and no unambiguous diminishing
trend can be followed as discussed so far. One plausible explanation for this would be
that the sampling prcedures might entrap not only the primary settled dust but also dust
taken by the winds from the soil. The air quality of the town with regard of average
monthly setding dust was adequate in 1987 and at winter 1989/90 while owing to the
volume of maximum values encountered in other periods the air quality requirements of
MSZ 21854-1990 have not been complied with. On the basis of average values, dust
pollution is lower than it would be asiumed on the basis of the load index.
The experence related to health revealed at the early eighties that heavy metal
contaminations in the air may have a crucial role. Despite of this discovery, the metal
content of fly dust adverse to health was not analyzed at all or only to a very limited
extend in the past while the vanadium and nickel content of setting dust were monitored
over a long period of ime.
The typical vanadium and nickel content of the flydust both varied likelybetween 30 and
40 ng/m3 in the past which amounts to some per cent of the limit value applicable for the
area in question.
The vanadium and nickel content measured in the settling dust at the beginning of the
period of examination as a rule considerably exceeded, in many cases even by
magnitudes, the typical values of the control area in Budaors. The amount of nickel in
the setding dust deposited on the soil diminished to one third or one fif during the
period between the beginng and end of the measurement period. The vanadium
content shows an even marked reduction; during the four years of the monitonng penod
itdropped to one tenth or one twentieth at Sz7halombatta. By the end of the monitoirng
period several metering points measured values identical with those detected at fth
Budaors control area. During the same peziod of time no change occurred in the values
monitored at Budaors. However noteworthy though the variation of the vanadium and
nickel content of the settling dust may be during the monitoring period, it does not
infltence the degree of permissible ambient air pollution and its evaluation from health
aspects. Neither Hungarian Standard MSZ 21854-1990, nor the international regulations
(WHO Reg. Publ. Euro. Ser NP.23; EEC; TA-Luft'86; World Bank O.D. 4.01-1991) specify
the vanadium and nickel content of settling dust, although the permissible limits of toxic
components, i.e. heavy metals (cadmium and lead) and other inorganic and organic
matters are stipulated.  The reason is that particles typical of setting dust, namely,
particles larger than 5-10rm are filtered in the upper respiratory passages thus vanadium
and nicel cannot exert toxic effect.
4



As regards aromatic hydrocarbons  measured  data of benzol, toloul and xylene are
available. Multiple exceedings both of the average values and maximum values have
been revealed although the trend is apparently diminishing. The suspicion that these are
dangerous  to health seems to be well-founded.  Benzol is a matter causing cancer;
assuming  that the concentration  of 200pg/m' which is slightly lower than the annual
average of measured values, inhaled for 70 years may cause cancer in 14.4 cases in a
population of 18,000 residents. It is a figure which cannot be neglected as insignificant
(it compares with the risk involved with fal bicycle accidents).
In 1980-81 the idea occuned that the ambient air pollution may be a factor in the
increasing number of respirtory diseases encountered among resident children. To
clarify the causes of this phenomenon, from 1983 comprehensive health survey have
been conducted which was extended to adult residents in 1987. The survey got stuck
in fte systematical arrangement of observations; the real relationship between cause and
effect failed to be revealed. Lately, the number of children taken ill with respiratory
diseases  has reduced.  The health survey results conducted  with adults have been
compared with those conducted in Debrecen. It could be established that among adult
males the number of diseases with malignant tumor is one and a half times higher in the
control group; the chronic respiratory diseases reducing breatiing functions almost three
times higher and allergic dermatitis over three times higher in the control group! Further
exminations conducted in Szazhalombatta indicate that the role of exposition at the work
place is more significant than that at the residential area. Itis interesting to note that the
diseases of the upper respiratory track are considerably more frequent with resident livng
in prefabricated concrete panel flats.
Noise level has been examined in the vicinity of the power plant. In addition to the data
made available for us, we have conducted measurings. With the expected values of
additional noise generated by unit Gl the expected noise level values issued by te joint
operatiQn of all equipment of the plant has been deternined.  Without further noise
mitigaing measures enforced after the commissioning of GI, an increase in noise level
which cannot be percived by human hearing but can be measured with instruments, will
be anticipated in areas in the vicinity of the power plant where slight exceedances can be
measured even now.
To assess the impact of the proposed gas turbine unit on the ambient air quality, stack
height has been determined in accordance with the relevant Hungaran air quality
regulations. As it is known, the stack of the G1 gas tubine falls into the category of
80<H 100 m. Should the stack height be selected to be 82m, the limits for both sources
would be exceeded.  Thus, in order to observe the authorities' regulations, the stack
height of G2 shall be selected above 100m. The same applies to an eventual by-pass
stack of G2 unit From technical viewpoint it is difficult to accept and explain these
results. The Hungarian air quality regulations alone are the cause for them because they
put high emphasis on the number of polluting sources within one site and do not pay any.
attention at all to the physical properties of flue gas emissions or to the duration of
5



operation. To define individual limits, we have conducted  infomative negodations with
the Air Quality Control Department of the Ministry for Environment and Regional Policy
wher it was indicated that on their part they would pwpose to establish individual values
which are stricter an the existing limits which are not expected to be changed in the
future.
Since the German reglations take into account the physical parameters of the discharged
flue gas for the detenrination of the required minimum construction height, the necessary
stack height has been detemined also in this manner. For both the normal operation
and by-pass stack the results showed 40 m stack height. To illustrate the impact of the
different temperatures of discharged flue gas under normal operation and from by-pass
stack (100C and OOTC, rsp.), the effective stack height has been calculated with the
result of 229 m for normal stack and 744 m for by-pass stack. Thus, in technical terms
we failto see that itis justfied to insist on the construction of a stack height required by
the Hungarian regulations; especially with a by-pass stack where the effective stack height
is more than three times the normal stack.
According to the plant operation schedule assumed for the transmission calculations, with
the design load conditions G2 unit would oper   for 8000 hours annually in tms of
nominal capacity. In the lst and 4th quarter 85% of the operating time is sheduled for
gs-fiing while 15 % for oil-firing; during the off-heating season (six months) we have only
gas-firing. Transmission calculatons have been conducted for two stack heights (82 and
102 m) in compliance with Hungarian standard regulations. The expected additional load
caused by sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen-oxides emissions from the examined stack and
expected air quality concentrations in terms of averages in the winter and summer
seasons and 30 minute averaged maximum concentrations within the area up to 10 km
around the plant have been determined.
The results of calculations covenng longer averaging periods show that the six month and
1 year average concentrations of sulfur-dioxide and nitrogen-oxide caused by emissions
from the proposed G2 gas turbine unit of Power Station Dunamenti in the receptors of the
environment are of minor extend, of a magnitude of maximum some tenths of
microgram/cubic meter. The six month average concentrations are seveal magnitdes
lower than the specified annual average ambient air quality limits and even the maximum
vslues amount to only up to three hundredths of the background pollution characterized
by the mean of the measured values in the town. Thus the observance of the air control
regulations for longer averaging periods practically does not depend on the air pollutants
discharged from the stack of the proposed G2 gas trbine unit of Power Station
Dunamenti. This statement is valid for both stack heights.
The analyses of 30 minute averaged maximums has been concluded that for both stack
heights under examination, with oil firing, the absolute  maximum  sulfur-dioxide and
nitrogen oxides concentration will form.at a distance of 1 to 2 kn from the stack. The
30-minute sulfur-dioxide concentration could reach 4-5 per cents of the air qualit norm
6



while that of nitrogen-oxides 11-13 per cents. Thus the short term norms so critical from
the point of view of the air polluting impact of power plants can be observed.
Furthermore it can be realized that there is only a minor difference between the two stack
heights examined.
From the above it can be concluded that the G2 gas tnbine is capable to comply with
the strickest environment control regulations and after the implementation of the project
the obsrvability of the air quality regulations will continue to depend on the varations
of other polluting sources of the plant. The detiled analyses of these sources is outside
the scope of this study, however, the uftlition of the power plant is expected to change
and ftis may involve the increase of total emissions. Nevertheless, some suggestions can
be made on the variations of the emissions from the power plant in view of the results of
the implementation of the entire gas tubine project.
As itis known, the G2 project together with G1 gas turbine now being commissioned are
going to replace the BEAD plant and relieve unit C. In accordance with the varation of
the scheduled load, the annual emissions from the heat supply part of the power plant
willbe reduced drastically by 1995:
Sulfur-dioxide emissions recorded as high as 10020 tons in 1991 wIll drop
to 605 tons which is a 94% reduction;
Nitrogen-dioxides emissions will also diminish considerably, by about 35%
to go back from 2860 tons to 1882 tons;
Soot and heavy metal particle emissions from the heat supply plant not
dealt with herein which accompany the present plant operation will
practically be eliminated.
At the same time, the operation of the gas turbine plant willfacilitate the observance of
the new authoritative limits applicable to KI stack, without the restrictions of the plant
services. These impacts, of course, point in the directon of the moderation of the
exposure of the environment.
The approimate calculation to assess ambient noise impact exerted by G2 gas turbine
showed that the power plant together with G2 gas turbine wil approach or sightly exceed
the limit at the planned construction boundary of the residential area. This implies that
further noise mitigation measures shall be taken in order to observe noise limits. The
analyses of the domiant components  of the resultng noise level indicated that the
exceedances  are caused by the transformers facing the redential area. It would be
expedient to reduce the existing noise level to overcompensate  the noise increment
caused by the gas turbine units. There are several possibilities to mitigate the problem:
the fir steps have already been tkn with success to construct a noise shield around
the transfoMers. The normal operation bf G1 and G2 gas turbines, according toplans,
7



will replace part of the presently operting units, thus the noise impact to the workers'
lodging and to Er6mg Street will change favoumable. It will need a detailed noise source
analyses  to convert this improvement into figures, which can be done during the
examination of the operation routine at a later phase.
On the basis of the available information, data and analyses it has been established that
the implementation and operation of the gas turbine unit proposed with the employment
of the demonstrated environment control methods will not impose dangers on the
observability of fte environment control limits. Along with the other gas turbine (GI) it will
facilitate to replace the obsolete BEAD plant, to reduce the load of C units and thereby
to mitigate considerably the air pollutant emissions (sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-oxides, soot,
heavy metals) from the heat supply part of the power station and to modeat  the ambient
noise impact generated by the plant.
An essential factor from the point of view of the middle-ranged development program of
the Hungrian electric power system and of the implementation of the nationwide air
quality control concept is that the cogeneration uimt as an important dement of these
programs, thanks to its better total energy conversion efficiency more favourable than the
conventional one and due to its technological requirements, with its necessarily more
favourable flue gas emission characteristics wilifacilitate the implementation of a power
plant construction  stategy  in compliance  with the Hungarian  and  intenational
environment protection disciplines, which is sociauly acceptable; and which is capable to
reduce our import-dependency and willimpose less constraint on the economy of the
country.
As required by the World Bank policy on Environmental Assessment (O.D. 4.01) affected
groups and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are expected to be consulted
in the preparation of the EA. For this project all groups were consulted by means of a
local televion  call-in procedure  broadcast  from  the  Office of the Mayor of
Szazhalombatta.  Te program  consisd  of introducing remarks by MVMRt and ERBE
officials desaibing the purpose of the meeting, a movie describing the project and its
advantages in reducing pollution and finally questions and answers by call-in to the TV
staton. Most questions centered around aspects of air pollution and its control and all
inquries were safisfactorily addressed.  Based upon this consultation it was concluded
that no opposition was voiced by local affected parties against the proposed project.






