Page  1
                                                     C0NFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3705 HU
                          Loan Agreement
                 (Energy and Environment Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.
                       Dated March 25, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3705 HU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUNGARIAN POWER
COMPANIES LTD. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Dunamenti Ltd." means the Borrower's subsidiary company
controlled by the Borrower and established and registered pursuant
to Resolution No. 13-10-040106/14, dated May 17, 1993;
      (b)   "Operational Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered between the Borrower and Dunamenti Ltd.  on financial and
other obligations related to the implementation of Part A of the
Project;
      (c)   "Project Management Team" means the Borrower's project
unit responsible for implementation and management of the Project;
and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a  bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  4
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause Dunamenti Ltd. to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Agreement all its obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Dunamenti Ltd. to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Operational Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for review
by March 31 of each year during execution of the Project, the
Borrower's investment program with the financing plan covering the
next three years.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
Page  5
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than July 15 of the next
                   following fiscal year or such later date as the
                   Bank shall agree upon: (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of total revenues to the sum of
its: (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation, not
lower than 0.98 for the Borrower's fiscal year 1994; 0.99 for the
Borrower's fiscal year 1995; and 1.1 for each of the Borrower's
fiscal year thereafter.
      (b)   Before April 30 and October 31 in each of its fiscal
years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
initiating and, upon receiving necessary authorization, implementing
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
Page  6
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                   operating revenues and net non-operating income.
           (ii)    The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.
          (iii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
           (iv)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                   depreciation calculated on the Borrower's fixed
                   assets in operation using the basis and
                   methodology acceptable to the Bank.
            (v)    Fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
                   one half of the sum of the gross value of the
                   Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
                   beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
                   valued in accordance with sound and consistently
                   maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                   the Bank.
           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
          (vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall generate, for each of its fiscal years commencing
after December 31, 1993, funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less than 55% of the annual average of the Borrower's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year,
the previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
      (b)   Before April 30 and October 1 in each of its fiscal
year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a
copy of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
initiating and, upon receiving necessary authorization, implementing
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
Page  7
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), provision for
                         decommissioning of nuclear units, debt
                         service requirements, all cash dividends
                         and other cash distributions of surplus,
                         increase in working capital other than
                         cash and other cash outflows other than
                         capital expenditures.
           (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
          (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   fiscal year.
           (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes and dividends.
           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
          (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures incurred on account of fixed
                   assets, including interest charged to con-
                   struction, related to operations.
          (viii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section of
                   this Agreement it shall be necessary to value,
                   in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt
                   payable in another currency, such valuation
                   shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
Page  8
                   lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                   currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                   obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                   debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                   basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                   Bank.
      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower shall be at least 1.9 times
the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in 1994 and
not lower than 2.5 thereafter for each fiscal year during the term
of the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modifications
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date of agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, provision for
                         decommissioning of nuclear units, taxes
                         and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                         excluding provision for depreciation,
                         other than non-cash operating charges and
                         interest and other charges on debt.
           (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes in the generation of
                         revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payment, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
           (vi)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                   months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                   question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                   accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank
                   has notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                   provided that no event has occurred since such
                   notification which has, or may reasonably be
                   expected in the future to have, a material
                   adverse effect on the financial condition or
Page  9
                   future operating results of the Borrower.
          (vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions namely that
the Operational Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower
and Dunamenti Ltd.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Development Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Hungarian Power Companies Ltd.
            Vam utca 5-7
            H-1011 Budapest
            Republic of Hungary
                                     Telex:
                                       22-4382 MVM H
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  10
                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
                   HUNGARIAN POWER COMPANIES LTD.
                   By /s/ Jozsef Halzl
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods, other              77,600,000        100% of foreign
    than for Part A (1)                         expenditures,
    of the Project                              100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Consultant's               7,600,000        100%
    services and
    training
(3) Unallocated               14,800,000
                             ___________
    TOTAL                    100,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,700,000, may be
made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce Hungary's
dependence on energy imports from a single source; (ii) increase
Page  11
efficiency, reliability and flexibility in the production of
electricity and heat; and (iii) establish the necessary basis for
strong interconnections with the Western European Power Pool. In
addition, the Project would support continued environmental
improvements in the power sector and assist in improving
institutional capabilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Construction of one gas-fired combined cycle cogeneration
plant of 235 MWe and 240 MWt at Dunamenti Ltd. site, about 30 km
southwest of Budapest, consisting of:
      (1)   installation of a 145 MW gas turbine and auxiliary
            equipment; and
      (2)   installation of a steam cycle equipment and the
            provision for associated civil works and ancillary
            facilities at the plant site.
Part B:
      Upgrading of the Borrower's existing Energy Management System
(EMS).
      (1)   Upgrading of the National Dispatch Center (NDC) through:
            (a)    replacement of the EMS master station at the NDC
                   located in Budapest, with associated remote
                   facilities at major substations and power
                   plants; and
            (b)    expansion and upgrading of the data communica-
                   tion network that will be required to support
                   the national EMS facilities.
      (2)   Upgrading of the Regional Distribution Control Centers
            (RDCs) through:
            (a)    provision of the modern EMS equipment and
                   computerization of four regional distribution
                   companies (in Debrecen, in Pecs, in Gyor, and in
                   Budapest); and
            (b)    supply of remote terminal units and data
                   concentrators to the selected District Dispatch
                   Centers of each of the respective regional
                   distribution companies.
Part C:
      Human Resource Management and Training:
      (1)   provision of consultants' services and appropriate
            training to the Human Resources Department of the
            Borrower to upgrade its professional capacity in the
            areas of personnel management, development of human
            resources policies and transferring of relevant
            methodologies to the Borrower's subsidiary companies;
      (2)   provision of consultants' services and short-term
            intensive training at management level, focusing on the
            Development, Economic and Operation Departments of the
            Borrower; and
      (3)   training of the Borrower's personnel in selected areas
            and visits to professional meetings, courses,
            conferences and similar events.
Page  12
Part D:
      Environmental Management and Training:
      (1)   consultancy assistance in carrying out an Environmental
            Master Plan for the power sector;
      (2)   training of the Borrower's staff in areas of
            environmental management, pollution control technology
            for power plants, environmental assessment, modelling
            (energy/environmental planning), monitoring and
            international cooperation; and
      (3)   installation of water pollution, ambient air and noise
            level monitoring equipments on selected sites.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
      beginning July 15, 1999
      through July 15, 2008                5,000,000
And on January 15, 2009                    5,000,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Page  13
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Bidders for the contracts included in Part B of the Project
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Hungary may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
Page  14
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof), or
through international shopping on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A (2) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, consultants shall be employed whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines). For
complex time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
Page  15
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignment of critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank
and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
the Project Management Team with adequate authority responsi-
bilities, resources and staff, whose experience and qualifications
shall be acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Not later than October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall
submit annual financing plans for the Project for the Bank's review.
3.    Not later than October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the training programs and terms of reference for
Part C and yearly training programs for Part D of the Project for
the Bank's comments and concurrence.
4.    By January 31 and July 31 of each year, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank progress reports of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, supplemented by brief
reports to be submitted by April 30 and October 31 each year,
covering technical, financial and other Project implementation
related matters.
5.    Prior to issuing the bidding documents for the steam cycle
equipment for Part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall have
entered into a contract for purchasing the gas cycle equipment for
Part A (1) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  16
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
Page  17
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
