Report No. PID7298
Project Name                     Ghana-Community Development Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           SS - Social Sector
Project                          GHPE40659
Borrower(s)                      Government of Ghana
Implementing Agency              National Development Planning Commission
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 13, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           February 15, 1999
Project Board Date               March 30, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Despite a mixed experience with fiscal adjustment since 1994, Ghana has made
strides in restoring/maintaining macroeconomic stability.     Real GDP growth
continues to be strong at 4.5%, but poverty and malnutrition continue to be a
hindrance to sustainable and broad-based development. Recent poverty
assessments estimated that some 32% of the total population lived in poverty.
This is overwhelmingly a rural phenomenon, with over 72% of the poor living in
rural areas.  However, urban poverty is becoming more pronounced.     For a
large segment of the Ghanaian population the quality of life is poor, with
high levels of malnutrition and infant and child mortality, low life
expectancies, low levels of education and literacy and limited access to
employment and economic services.
2. Objectives
The project proposes to (a) test approaches and mechanisms for delivering,
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating poverty reduction programs; (b) build
capacity for TCOP/NDPC to coordinate and monitor cross-sectoral poverty
reduction programs carried out by different line ministries and at
decentralized district and community levels; (c) strengthen collaboration
between government and NGOs in targeted service delivery, with NGOs providing
the actual services and government providing supervision and support; and (d)
strengthen collaboration between the Bank and the UNDP and other development
partners in supporting the government's poverty reduction programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project objectives grow out of the Ghana Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), specifically the reduction of poverty and improvement of quality of
life indicators.    The project would help test approaches and build capacity
to organize, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the diverse activities in
Ghana's poverty reduction programs. The project is proposed as a Learning and
Innovation Lending (LIL) operation because what Ghana needs at present is not
so much financial resources per se but to learn how best to coordinate and
utilize its available resources and existing facilities. Successful



experiments tested by the LIL could be financed by available resources
elsewhere (such as the UNDP/ADB financed Social Investment Fund), or they
could be followed up with an investment loan on a larger scale if additional
resources prove to be needed.
4. Description
The project has identified three areas of specific focus - community-based
nutrition and food security, street children, and poverty measurement and
monitoring. It will test, in selected districts and urban centers, strategies
and operational modalities to:
-       strengthen the capacity of communities and districts to take action
against the local causes of malnutrition and to improve nutrition and food
security especially for children under five and pregnant and lactating
mothers;
-       meet the needs of various groups of street children and deepen public
awareness and understanding of the street children phenomenon; and
-       build the capacity of the districts to measure and monitor changes in
welfare at household and community levels.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       0.5
IBRD                             0
IDA                              5.0
Total Project Cost               5.5
6. Implementation
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of 3 years beginning
in June 1999.
7. Sustainability
The project emphasizes sustainability through: (a) strengthened capacity of
government and non-governmental institutions to design and deliver effective
social services to the poor; (b) better coordination and utilization of
resources for poverty reduction through improved collaboration between
government and other development partners at the central and local levels; (c)
lessons learned to feed into the design of larger scale poverty reduction
program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from past operations supported by the Bank and other development
partners (eg. the UNICEF Iringa model for nutrition activities) indicate the
following lessons.
1.) Communities should actively participate in the design and implementation
of project interventions. This gives them a greater sense of ownership and
leads to more sustainable results. Project preparation and implementation
- 2-



should be based on strong co-ordination and consensus-building mechanisms,
allowing for flexibility based on community readiness.
2.) There are plenty of resources available for infrastructure development
from ongoing Bank operations and from other external sources. However, these
resources are generally poorly coordinated and not effectively used. Also,
the "software" aspects - how to do what needs to be done - have been
underfunded. These are the aspects that need to be strengthened if
investments in infrastructure are to be effectively used and sustained.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The project will have no negative environmental impact. It is a category C
project requiring no further environmental analysis.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Shing-Fan Josephine Woo
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 5, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 3 -



