Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3237 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Community-Based Poverty Reduction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 27, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3237 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July27, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs 13 through 15: 
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
Page  2
183 of the Board  of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Work Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement, to be prepared by the Borrower, containing the program for 
Project activities for the following twelve-month period, including plans for 
procurement, training, and budget;
(b)
"NDPC" means the National Development Planning Commission established 
under the Borrower’s Constitution and operating pursuant to the NDPC Act, 1994 (Act 
479) of the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
"NGO" means a nongovernmental organization established under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(c)
"OM" means the Project Operational Manual referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, work plans, training plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators, and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with the Association, and such item includes any schedules to the OM; 
(d)
"PLU" means the Project Liaison Units established by the Borrower to 
manage the implementation of each component of the Project; 
(e)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f)
"PRU" means the Poverty Reduction Unit established in the NDPC 
responsible for overall Project coordination;
(g)
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee established by the Borrower to 
oversee Project implementation, including reviewing and approving the Annual Work 
Plan, and progress of the Project;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"Grants Procedures Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million, seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachments.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each August 1 and February 1, commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, February 1, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  4
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or the Project Management 
Report, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than September 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable 
to the Association.  Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has appointed auditors to carry out the audits referred to 
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system 
for the Project satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed accounts officers for the PRU and each PLU, 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed a Project Coordinator in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
Page  6
(e)
the Borrower has appointed a head of each PLU, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Annual Work Plan 
covering the first twelve months after the Effective Date, and
(g)
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205
MIFAEPGH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Francis A. Tsegah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   450,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
 1,700,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
Incremental 
   300,000
95%
operating costs
(4)
Grants
   880,000
100% of amount
disursed
(5)
Unallocated
   370,000
TOTAL
 3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, expenses related to communications and utilities, maintenance of 
vehicles and office equipment, fuel, spare parts, office rentals, travel, and 
supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term "Grants" means any grant referred to under Part B.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments under Category (4), unless (i) the Borrower has adopted 
the Grants Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Association, for implementing Part 
B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Grants have been made in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set forth in the Grants Procedures Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) contracts for goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for consulting firms and 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (c) training; (d) Grants; 
and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Page  8
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test approaches and mechanisms for 
delivering poverty reduction interventions to marginalized groups through community 
nutrition and food security programs and activities to assist street children; and (b) 
test and build capacity, at national and district levels, for monitoring and 
evaluating poverty reduction programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community-Based Nutrition and Food Security
1.
Testing, in four selected districts, of a community-based strategy to strengthen 
the capacity of communities to achieve good nutrition and food security for children 
and lactating mothers, including:
(a)
carrying out programs to educate village authorities on basic nutrition 
strategies through (i) the provision of training (including training in dietary use of 
local foods, decreasing post harvest losses, increasing income and shortening the 
period during which food is unavailable between harvests through professional food 
processing and packaging knowledge) to farmers and households; and (ii) the provision 
of equipment for, and construction and rehabilitation of nutrition centers;
(b)
carrying out baseline studies at the community level to provide the basis 
for assessment of the impact of Project interventions through the provision of 
technical advisory services;
(c)
training of families and childcare givers in child development and 
nutrition for child growth and child development needs including building community 
support for better nutrition and carrying out nutrition demonstration and training for 
the preparation of balanced meals at nutrition centers;   
(d)
developing and strengthening the capacity of households and community 
organizations to mobilize and manage resources, create sustainable employment 
opportunities, initiate income-generating activities, improve the marketability and 
commercial standards of local production and create strategic alliances for production 
and marketing through the provision of training, equipment, and technical advisory 
services; and
(e)
carrying out a program to promote and monitor growth of children through 
the provision of training and technical advisory services.
Part B:
Interventions to Assist Street Children
1.
Provision of Grants to NGOs to (a) provide services to street children, 
including employment skills, accelerated literacy and numeracy skills to enable them 
to be transferred to and/or maintained in the formal education system, health 
education and reintegration in homes (b) improve the productive capacity of parents 
through employment training; (c) improve community responsibility towards street 
children through training and the acquisition of equipment; and (d) improve collection 
and dissemination of information on street children;
2.
Carrying out of publicity campaigns to increase the awareness and responsiveness 
of communities to the phenomenon of street children in order to increase their 
collaboration in planning and implementing interventions through the provision of 
technical advisory services and equipment;
3.
Developing a national policy on street children through research and 
consultation, and evaluation of lessons learned from specific interventions.
Part C:
Community-Based Poverty Measurement and Monitoring
1.
Designing and implementing in three districts, a base-line assessment of poverty 
at household, individual, community and district levels and carrying out, on a pilot 
basis in these three districts, a community-based poverty measurement and monitoring 
Page  9
system through the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of 
equipment, the training of district and subdistrict officials and agents on poverty 
measurement, and information technology.
2.
Development of indicators for monitoring poverty at household, individual, and 
community levels through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and 
the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower .
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $30,000 but less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Weighing scales and other equipment costing up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $20,000 may be procured from UNICEF under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection.
Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single-Source Selection.
Services for technical advisory services which are estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical advisory services estimated to cost less than $30,000, 
Page  11
being services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 (a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section I:
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and shall not amend the 
Project Operational Manual or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the 
Association, will adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association every twelve months, beginning twelve months after the 
Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraphs (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Annual Work Plans
Page  12
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 1 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association 
for its approval each proposed Annual Work Plan to be carried out in the following 
year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking into account its 
comments and views on the matter;
(b)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Annual Work Plan in 
accordance with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory 
to, the Association and in accordance with the OM; and
(c)
not make any material change to the approved Annual Work Plan without the 
prior approval of the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  13
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
