                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                           Report No: 35176-GH

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (IDA-32370)

                    ON A

                   CREDIT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                   TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                   FOR A

COMMUNITY-BASED POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT (LIL)




                 May 17, 2006

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit = Cedi
                                 Cedi 1 million = US$ 140
                                         US$ 1 = Cedi 7150
                                       SDR I = US$1.35
                                       FISCAL YEAR


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMI      Body Mass Index
CAS      Country Assistancee Strategy
CG       Consultative Group
DACF     District Assembly Common Fund
FO       Facilitating Organization
GPN      General Procurement
GSS      Ghana Statistical Service
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IMCPR    Inter-Ministerial Committee on Poverty Reduction
KAP      Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
MESW     Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare
MOH      Ministry of Health
NBF      Not Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitve Bidding
NDPC     National Development Planning Commission
NFS      Nutritiion and Food Security
NGO      Non-government Organization
NU       Nutrition Unit
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PLU      Project Liaison Unit
PMM      Poverty Monitoring and Measurement
PRU      Poverty Reduction Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBP      Selection Based on Qualification
SC       Street Children
SOE      Statement of Expense
SPN      Specific Procurement Notice
SRFP     Standard Request for Proposals
TAC      Technical Advisory Committee
TCOP     Technical Committee on Poverty


                                Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director:      Mats Karlsson
                              Sector Manager:       Alexandre V. Abrantes
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Moukim Temourov

                                            GHANA
                        Community-Based Poverty Reduction Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Additional Project data                                                 25
Annex 9. Map IBRD No. 33411                                                      29

Project ID: P040659                                                  Project Name: Community-based Poverty Reduction
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Moukim Temourov                                         TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 17, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Community-based Poverty Reduction Project                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32370
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (72%); Sub-national government administration (24%); Central
                            government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Participation
                            and civic engagement (S); Social safety nets (S); Improving labor markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/25/1999                                     Effective: 09/15/1999                10/23/2001
     Appraisal: 03/31/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  09/08/2003
      Approval: 06/09/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMISSION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Moukim Temourov                                Josephine Woo
ICR Primary Author:             Moukim Temourov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
No Quality at Entry review was done.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: Despite Ghana's sustained economic growth in recent years, not everyone has benefited from it.
Driven by the strong performance of exports and supported by a stable macroeconomic environment, real
GDP growth reached 5.8 percent in 2004, up from 5.2 percent in 2003. Poverty in the country declined
from 42 percent in 1997 to 37 percent in 2003, with the poverty reduction mostly occurring in rural areas,
while urban poverty rates increased slightly. Despite this mostly positive trend, several of Ghana's human
development indicators, including the malnutrition level, especially rural, and the number of street children
in large urban areas were on the rise.

To better serve the urgent needs of those groups excluded from the overall economic growth was one of the
main objectives of the Ghana Community-Based Poverty Reduction (CBPR) project. Approved by the
Board on June 7, 1999, the CBPR project focused primarily on the issues of malnutrition amongst children
under 5 in rural areas, the growing phenomenon of street children in urban areas, and creating a poverty
monitoring capacity at the district level. The project was designed mainly by the national team with limited
assistance by the Bank. As one of the first learning and innovation loans (LIL) approved by the Board, the
CBPR project provided the Ghanian government with a new instrument to test its new and promising
development hypotheses in the areas of malnutrition, street children and poverty monitoring.

The main objectives of the Ghana CBPR project were to: (a) test approaches and mechanisms for
delivering, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating community-based poverty reduction actions through
community nutrition and food security interventions and activities to assist street children, and (b) build
capacity, at national and local levels, for designing, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating
community-based poverty reduction programs. These objectives were consistent with the Government's
priorities in the areas of poverty reduction and social assistance, as reflected in the Government's policy
framework for poverty reduction in Ghana over the medium term (1997-2000) and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. The survey data for 1998 showed that 30 percent of children under 5 were stunted,
and, given the limitations of the country's health care system, Ghana needed to develop complementary and
more effective community-based nutrition monitoring and food security programs. As for street children,
with their number growing rapidly in large urban areas, the new project provided the Government with an
opportunity to gain more experience in this area by piloting service delivery mechanisms and programs.
The objective of creating a local capacity to collect, analyze and use data for decision-making served the
broader national agenda on decentralization and poverty monitoring.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Ghana CBPR project had four components: (1) community-based nutrition and food security; (2)
interventions to assist street children; (3) poverty measurement and monitoring, and (4) project
management.

Component 1 - Community Based Nutrition and Food Security - US$1.8 million. This component
aimed to test, in four target districts, a community-based strategy to strengthen the capacity of communities
to achieve, on a sustainable basis, good nutrition and food security, especially for children under five and
pregnant and lactating mothers. The component's specific objectives were: (i) to reduce the number of
underweight children under five and increase the number of women of reproductive age with a body mass
index (BMI) between 18 and 25; (ii) to increase the awareness of communities about malnutrition and



                                                     - 2 -

strengthen their capacity to identify and take appropriate action to address the determinants of malnutrition
and to improve their food security; and (iii) to improve child care-giving practices, especially the quality
and quantity of food intake of children at home. This component included four sub-components:
community-based nutrition program, food security, Local Initiative Fund (LIF), and small socioeconomic
infrastructure.

Component 2 - Interventions to assist street children - US$ 1.8 million. The main objective of the
second component was to assist the Government in the development of a national policy on street children,
to deepen public awareness of the problem, and to assess the cost-effectiveness of street children
interventions.    In four urban areas, the following activities were planned: (i) grants to service
providers/NGOs to test a variety of services and delivery mechanisms to assist street children; (ii) policy
formulation based on a program of research and consultation to determine best practices, and (iii)
increasing awareness of the phenomenon of street children through advocacy programs and increased
collaboration among relevant institutions, both governmental, nongovernmental and aid agencies.

Component 3 - Poverty measurement and monitoring (PMM) - US$ 1.2 million. This component was
designed to address the lack of capacity for data collection and analysis at the district level. The project
aimed to support three districts, through their District Assemblies, to pilot poverty measurement and
monitoring systems, aimed at monitoring individual/household as well community-level poverty. More
specifically, the support would include training in poverty measurement, information technology, facilities
to enable the districts to store and analyze data, and a monitoring system to enhance leaning.

Component 4 - Project management - US$ 0.2 million. The Poverty Reduction Unit of the National
Development Planning Commission (NPDC) had the overall responsibility for project management, while
technical supervision of subcomponents were responsibilities of the Ministry of Health (Component 1),
Ministry of Employment (Component 2) and NDPC (Component 3), respectively.

The project components were linked well to the objectives stated above.              The project provided an
opportunity for the central and local governments to test new approaches in the provision of basic social
services, test and build capacity at national and district levels for monitoring and evaluation, and strengthen
collaboration between government and NGOs in targeted service delivery, with NGOs providing the actual
services and the government providing supervision and support.              The project was designed to be
implemented by existing government structures, which led to a strong national ownership of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated moderately satisfactory, based on: (i) strong government ownership of the
project's objectives and activities; (ii) consistency of project objectives with the government priorities on
poverty reduction and decentralization, and (iii) the project implementation design, which was based
entirely on the existing government structures (at central and district levels), NGOs, and community
volunteers for growth promotion and nutrition monitoring.

The project design, however, was too complex for a LIL. The project components were a set of challenging
issues in three different sectors, and, given the limited time and resources allocated for such loans, the
project faced a risk of not being able to go deep into issues and just touch the surface. The project design
also had a relatively complex management/supervision responsibilities, with three ministries involved in the
implementation of separate components.




                                                      - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the Ghana CBPR project is rated satisfactory. Serving its
learning and innovation objectives, right from the beginning the project established a solid M&E
mechanism, which produced on a quarterly basis a range of useful data and information on the project. As
part of the M&E system, a separate entity was hired to conduct M&E of each component of the project.

(i) The nutrition component of the project tested the following innovative ways to improve the nutritional
status of children in the beneficiary communities: (i) use of volunteers as community growth promoters to
undertake growth monitoring sessions, which allowed to reach all households in the community; (ii)
involvement of community leaders via the creation of Community Implementation Committees (CIC),
which ensured support at the community level; (iii) fighting malnutrition using preventive and mitigating
mechanisms, through addressing food security and provision of small loans for income-generating
activities.

By the end of the project, the nutrition component increased awareness in all beneficiary communities about
malnutrition as well as the importance of exclusive breast-feeding and nutrition-reach food products for the
health of infants. The project activities also contributed to better nutrition and health outcomes in the
beneficiary communities, witnessed by declines in the share of underweight and the level of morbidity for
children under five years old. According to the project data (see Annex 8), the project achieved the
following outcomes: (i) the share of women with children under two attending growth monitoring sessions
almost doubled in all beneficiary districts; (ii) the share of women practicing exclusive breast feeding
increased significantly in all four districts, with Sefwi Wiawso having the largest percentage increase at
325% (increases in the other districts went from 34% to 250%); the share of underweight children of 0-2
years old. decreased by 34.5% in KEEA, 17.2% in Kadjebi, 54.0% in Sefwi-Wiawso, and 77.3% in Bongo,
while for children of 2-5 years old, this incidence declined by 16.5% in KEEA, 10.7% in Kadjebi, 19.8 in
Sefwi-Wiawso, and 16.5% in Bongo. Analyses conducted by the ICR team of the methodology used to
calculate the children's underweight rate showed some inconsistencies that may cast doubts on the accuracy
of some figures, but that do not undermine the positive trends achieved by the project. The component also
achieved other positive results: as a complementary outcome of the project, all beneficiary children were
fully immunized by the prescribed ages, exclusive breast-feeding for children 0-6 months increased to at
least 80% in all the districts, and the occurrence of fever and diarrhea also declined. The decline in the
share of underweight children in the beneficiary communities is a positive contrast to the fact that
nutritional indicators in Ghana worsened during the same period. According to the 1998 and 2003 DHS
data, the national rate of children under five who are stunted increased from 20 to 30 percent, while the
proportions of children who are wasted or underweight decreased slightly.

(ii) Following its learning objective, the street children component tested a range of support and delivery
mechanisms for street children interventions.       While other similar projects run by NGOs and other
development partners focused mainly on one issue, such as literacy or health, the Ghana CBPR project
piloted the delivery of a package of services - at least three - including formal education, employment skill
training, counseling, and family/community reintegration. The selection of service providers was based on
their formal registration, location, demonstrated success or experience in similar projects, proven
human/material capacity, the viability of their proposals and their overall credibility based on references on
their past performance. The project also tested a series of activities to strengthen the service delivery and
monitoring and evaluation capacity of the service providers. While the project made some progress on the
delivery of combined social services to street children, as acknowledged in the evaluation report of the
implementation agency, the pilot of activities under this component largely turned out to be the delivery of



                                                      - 4 -

skills development training instead of exploring the effectiveness of service packages.

The tracking study carried out in October 2005 found out that most of the resettled children were likely to
come back to the street because they could not practice in their home communities the skills acquired in the
program. The study revealed that over 70% of service providers did not have accurate information on the
children they resettled. The master craftsmen selected should have been better prepared as to the challenges
of training street kids. There were no linkage or collaboration arrangements established between the service
providers and local authorities. The study also found shortcomings on how children were selected for the
project. The study suggested that service providers should first check on where the children would be
resettled before they are recruited and trained. According to the study, most of the children trained by the
project had difficulties coping with the challenges of continuing their economic activity. While developing
a tracking system could contribute to better outcomes, the study suggests that it would require a lot of
resources, effort and coordination between different stakeholders.

Lessons learned from this and other similar projects are being used for the development of the national
street children policy, one of the project's intended outcomes (Annex 1). The policy document, still under
preparation, acknowledges the fact that the number of street children in Ghana is not known and any policy
would have to be based on approximate estimates. The analysis of socioeconomic characteristics of street
children presented in the document is based on a small survey, and no references are made to national
households surveys, poverty outcomes, etc. The document needs further analyses of the reasons why
children end up on the street, and provide recommendations not just on coping, but on prevention and
mitigation of this phenomenon. The document also falls short of placing the issue of street children as part
of the Government's overall agenda on fighting poverty and proving safety nets to the most vulnerable. In
its current content, the document cannot be considered finalized.           However, the project should be
commended for assisting the Government into taking the first steps in what is arguably a very challenging
area, with no examples of street children strategy available elsewhere in Africa.

(iii) The poverty measurement and monitoring component contributed to building capacity, at national and
district levels, for more effective data collection, analysis and use for decision-making at the District
Assembly level. The project designed and tested successfully poverty monitoring and service delivery
systems in the three pilot districts. The project was one of the first in Ghana to build local capacity to
collect, analyze and utilize data for policy making at the district level. Data collected and analyzed is being
used for planning and resource allocation. For instance, technical staff of the Health Department in the
beneficiary districts have been trained to collect and analyze data on Out-Patient Department (OPD)
clients, supervised deliveries etc. The Education Department now uses the system to collect, store and
analyze data on school enrolment, and teacher-pupil ratios. In two of the three participating districts, the
Department of Education has undertaken dissemination activities on the 2004 Basic Education Certificate
Examinations (BECE) results and on how to make enrolment drives more effective at the district level.
Most of all, attitude to data and its management have changed with authorities and specialists at different
levels who now demand and use data for planning and decision-making. For the first time, the availability
of local data has allowed district development plans to address real needs of the communities.

It is important to note that the project objectives remain highly relevant today. As the data above show,
malnutrition is still widespread in the country, with 30% of children under five stunted, 7% wasted, and
22% underweight. The data also show that rural children are more likely to be stunted and underweight
than urban children, while the proportion wasted is almost the same in both rural and urban areas.
Malnutrition is identified as one of the main causes of high child mortality rates in the country, with both
the Ghana Poverty reduction Strategy (GPRS) and the Bank's CAS calling for targeted interventions,
especially to deprived areas and to poor and vulnerable groups. The issue of street children in large urban


                                                     - 5 -

areas remains also prominent, and the national social protection strategy and Ghana PRSP call for
development of better-targeted and more efficient interventions. Strengthening the quality of data and
building capacity at national and local levels to collect, analyze and use the poverty data for policy-making
remains also vital.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Community Based Nutrition and Food Security (US$1.8m PAD US$1.5 actual): This component is
rated satisfactory. The component was implemented in 40 communities of four focus districts of Ghana,
namely Sefwi-Wiawso, Komenda Edina Eguafo Abirem (KEEA), Kadjebi and Bongo. The project trained
400 community growth promotion volunteers to conduct the weight monitoring and nutrition counseling in
their communities. Growth promotion for children 0-2 years was conducted every month while that for
children 2-5 years was conducted every three months. By the end of the project, the nutrition and food
security component had covered a total of 10,728 children of 0-5 years old (7,081 children under two years
old and 3,647 children of 2-5 years old). This number of beneficiaries is more than twice than the set
target of 4,000 children in the PAD.      The promotion of adequate weight Body Mass Index (BMI) for
women in fertility age (WIFA) started in March 2005 and was conducted every six months. A total of
4,466 women were covered by the project. The growth promotion component was launched during the first
year of implementation, and it was followed by the food security and LIF subcomponents. This sequencing
allowed the project to better understand the malnutrition situation in the selected communities and to
identify best possible interventions through other subcomponents.

The food security subcomponent was implemented in collaboration with the Directorate of Women in
Agricultural Development of Ministry of Food and Agriculture.          Under this subcomponent, the project
provided the necessary training and materials for twenty households in each community for activities such
as pineapple and vegetable gardening, fruit tree cultivation, small ruminants/snail rearing, poultry keeping
and mushroom cultivation. The Local Initiative Fund (LIF) subcomponent was implemented with the help
of four facilitating organizations: Asawinso Rural Bank in Sefwi-Wiawso, Christian Rural Action Network
(CRAN) in KEEA; Christian Rural Action Network (CRAN) in Kadjebi and Trade Aid Integrated (TAI) in
the Bongo District. the project provided small loans to individuals and groups of 4-6 people for
income-generating activities, mainly in farming and small commerce. Size of the loan varied between cedis
400,000 and 1 million (between 40 to 100 US dollars) , with repayments period up to 6 months (with three
months grace) for traders, and of 9 months (grace period of 6 months) for farmers and an interest rates of
20% (market reference is 25-28%).        Credit disbursement started in April 2004 and by December 2005
each district had completed two rounds of disbursements amounting to 500,000,000 cedis (about 50
thousand US dollars). A total of 3,349 beneficiaries (383 males and 2,966 females) were covered by the
LIF. A part of the LIF (about 12%) was allocated to community growth promoters and CIC members as a
way of providing them with incentives for their voluntary services for the project. At the time of the ICR
mission, the loan repayment rates were reported to be about 40%, and it was expected to increase as longer
terms loans reach maturity. Upon repayments of the loan by the beneficiaries, a revolving fund was
developed to finance small-scale socioeconomic infrastructure in the beneficiary communities.

Interventions to assist street children (US$1.8m PAD US$ 2.3 actual): This component is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.The street children component reached 2,797 children versus the PAD target of
1,500. The beneficiaries were provided with different types of services: counselling, health services and
vocational training. About 1,700 children obtained employable, literacy and numeracy skills, and 475
children were placed in formal and non-formal schools. The most common employment skills were
dressmaking and hairdressing for girls and carpentry, welding, photography and masonry for boys. The
project also provided training and financial support to parents/guardians to improve their productive
capacity, and it also carried out a series of activities to increase awareness and improve community



                                                     - 6 -

responsibility towards street children. A total of 336 parents/guardians benefited from business training and
micro-grant support provided by the project.

There were, however, several shortcomings in the implementation of this component. The project did not
provide clear guidance to service providers on how to choose street children, and, as a result, just 165 of
the project beneficiaries were so-called hard-core street children (identified as children of the street,
involved in crime and without links to their families or a caretaker), while the rest of them had families or
retained a sense of belonging to a family or household. In line with type of intervention elsewhere in
Africa, the project had a very high unit cost, with an average amount spent per child totaling about 6-8
million cedis (about $US 1,000). While the children who participated in the program received significant
benefits (in addition to a one-year employment training, the graduates would also receive equipment and
materials to continue their economic activities, and some of them were even provided with a paid rental
workspace in a shop or at the market), the scaling up of such activity at the national level would require
some hard choices for the use of scarce resources.

Poverty measurement and monitoring (PMM) (US$1.2m PAD, US$ 0.7 actual): This component is
rated satisfactory. Implemented in three pilot districts: Bawku East, Asunafo, and KEEA, the PMM
component supported the district assemblies in the collection and analysis of poverty and sectoral data
(health, education, and agriculture) for decision-making at the district level. The project trained sectoral
staff of the district assemblies in basic computer skills and in data collection, entry, and analysis. In
addition to the routine sectoral data, the project also conducted household surveys in the pilot districts to
compile baseline data on welfare, employment, housing, household assets, and access to basic social
services. The project also carried out additional beneficiary assessments on access, use and satisfaction
with service provision in the pilot districts. A special database software - Automated Database System
(ADS) was developed to store and analyze the data. The support received by sector department at the
district assemblies allowed them to significantly improve the quality of data and, most importantly, to
analyze the data locally, which had not been done before. Sector departments were also able to conduct
specialized surveys to collect additional data.

Project management (US$0.2m PAD, US$0.7 actual): This component is rated satisfactory. The project
was managed by the NDPC and implemented by the Ministry of Health (Community nutrition) , Ministry
of Employment (Street children) and NPDC (PMM). Project liaison units in each institution were staffed
by existing employees of the concerned ministries. At the district level implementation of project activities
were coordinated by the district administration. Each district had a focal person named by the district
administration. Project activities were overseen by district level committees, which included the focal
person, representatives from local communities, NGOs, and district sectoral specialists.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial impact on the Government's ability to prepare and implement developmental
projects.   Prepared almost entirely by the national team and implemented by existing government
structures, the project helped the concerned ministries build technical capacity and expertise in project
design, preparation and implementation.         The project also allowed the sectoral ministries to test
interventions in relatively new areas of community nutrition programs, street children, and local poverty



                                                     - 7 -

monitoring. The financial management of the project was carried out by the Accounting Unit of NDPC,
which allowed this governmental agency to develop a sound financial management system for effective
budgeting and monitoring of project activities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
It took more than two years for the Parliament of Ghana to ratify the credit. The delay was caused by the
change of government after the parliamentary election in 2000. The new Government, which opposed the
project while in opposition, gave its support to the project when in power, but the new deputies requested
further information on the project objectives and its components. In particular, parliamentarians questioned
the utility and practicality of the street children component arguing that the project activities would increase
and not decrease the number of street children. There were also questions about the nature of LILs, a new
lending instrument of the Bank. The "learning" nature of LILs was misinterpreted by some deputies as
activities to carry out only analytical work, such as sector studies, assessments, etc, but upon receiving
additional information and after a series of consultations with the project team, the Parliament approved
unanimously the project on July 28, 2001.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government provided continued support to project management to put in place relevant structures for
project implementation. It ensured that membership of the technical advisory committees (TAC) of the
individual components of the project had the relevant technical expertise from all levels of government,
NGOs, donors and civic society. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning had representation in
each of the three TACs, and its desk officers participated on regular basis in the implementation support
missions conducted by the Bank.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was managed by the NDPC. The management team conducted monthly reviews of each
component and project updates were discussed on regular basis with the NDPC leadership. The project
experienced some delays in the beginning due to the commitment of some of its staff at both project liaison
units and district levels to other tasks. This situation was significantly improved after the management
team conducted a series of meetings with district chiefs, which were followed up with capacity building for
the focal persons and service providers.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was financed with an IDA credit of SDR 3.7 million (USD 5.2 million), contribution by the
Government of Ghana (USD 0.5 million) and in-kind contributions by the district assemblies (estimated at
US$1.3m). The actual total amount of loan exceeded the previously PAD-projected amount by US$ 0.2
million due to foreign exchange gains. The Government's funds were spent on the project management and
PMM component, while the communities in-kind contributions were used mostly for growth promotion and
street children components. The closing date was initially set for June 30, 2003, but it had to be extended
till December 31, 2005 due to the initial delay in launching the project (see Section 5.1).

The amount of actual funds allocated to street children component was US$ 0.5 million (or 28 percent)
more than the amount initially allocated in PAD due to additional service providers that were selected to
target "core" street children (see Section 4.2). It cost the Bank about US$ 450K, almost 10% of the total
credit, to supervise the project. This high cost of supervision was due to the delays with the start-up of the
project and the project design, which being quite complex required participation of experts in three different
fields.




                                                       - 8 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Risk to Development Outcome. Nutrition and food security. Risk to Development Outcome of the
community-based nutrition and food security component is rated negligible to low. The Government is
considering several possible ways of maintaining and expanding this component. One of the possible
scenarios would include securing funding for this component via the funds allocated to the Ministry of
Health under the Bank-led budgetary support, i.e., PRSC, process. The Nutrition unit of Ghana Health
Service included in its 2006 budget request to the Ministry of Health additional funds to sustain the project
activities in the four beneficiary districts and to expand these activities further to four more districts.
Another possibility is to use budget provisions for nutrition in the Bank-financed Ghana Community Based
Rural Development project. The national team is also exploring opportunities to collaborate with the
Community Health Planning Services (CHPS) program at the Ministry of Health.                   Following the
nation-wide dissemination, some district assemblies, NGOs and donors have already adopted the
community-based growth promotion approach developed by the CBPR project. Plan International, an
NGO, and the Ashanti Regional Health Directorate, for instance, are already implementing this approach,
while the Otumfour Development Programme in the Ashanti region and the UNICEF in Ghana are also
using the manuals and materials developed by the CBPR project.

Street children. Risk to Development Outcome of the street children component is rated significant. There
are no immediate opportunities to sustain the street children component because of the high costs of its
interventions. Before expanding this component, the lessons that have been learned in this project should
be taken into account. The finalization of the national street children policy initiated by the project would
help with this task.    It is also important to include the issue of street children in broader national
discussions on social protection.

Poverty measurement and monitoring (PMM). Risk to Development Outcome of the PMM component is
rated moderate. Sector departments in the beneficiary districts intend to continue data collection and
monitoring. They have also developed a set of additional indicators and are monitoring them accordingly.
For instance, the Health Department has trained traditional birth attendants to collect non-routine data on
maternal deliveries, while community surveillance volunteers were trained to collect specific non-routine
data on diseases such as waist pains, which was not the case previously. The NDPC has allocated funds in
its 2006 budget for the expansion of the database software in 10 districts, one in each region of Ghana. An
automated data base system (ADS) user manual were also developed to train all staff involved in data
collection and analysis at the district level.      The NDPC has allocated funds to national stakeholder
discussions on this components with sectoral ministries and development partners. In addition, the
Beneficiary Assessment tool that was developed under the project has also been incorporated in the
NDPC's District Medium Term Plan Preparation Guidelines for 2006-2009 for Ministries, Departments
and Agencies and Districts.

It is important to note that the district authorities have expressed their strong willingness to allocate some
resources to sustain the activities of all three components in the immediate future. In addition to limited
financial resources, local counterpart contributions will also include allocating necessary district staff to
implement the project. But given the limited local resources, it would be unrealistic to expect the project
sustainability for long time without additional resources from the central government and development
partners.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ministry of Health's draft budget for 2006 included funds to support and expend the community



                                                       - 9 -

nutrition programs initiated by the CBPR project, and the Ministry is also considering several other options
to mainstream this approach into its regular programs (Section 6.1). The issue of street children remains
high in the Ministry of Manpower, Youth and Employment's agenda, and the ministry has allocated some
funds in its 2006 budget to continue the policy dialogue on street children with the civic society and
development partners. The NDPC is working with sectoral ministries and district assemblies to include
poverty monitoring in local development plans.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at lending is rated moderately satisfactory. While the project's overall objectives
were consistent with the Government priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy, the range of specific
issues to be dealt with in the project were too complex for a LIL. This complexity caused delays in getting
the project approved by the Parliament (see Section 5.1) and led also to a slow start-up of the project
activities. This was especially true for the street children component, an area where the Government lacked
adequate knowledge and expertise.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance at supervision stage is rated satisfactory. The Bank team excelled in providing
the Government with necessary technical support to implement the project. Supervision missions were
carried out periodically, with Bank's leading accompanying the project team leader to assess progress on
the project's specific components. This was especially well-done for the community nutrition and poverty
monitoring components. A street children expert also participated in the project supervision and made
recommendations to improve the project performance. Conducting large missions, however, increased the
cost of project supervision (see Section 5.4).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In spite of some weaknesses identified in the project design, the overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
It identified and provided support to a creative and innovative project, which dealt with several challenging
and previously untested issues.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance at preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government was strongly committed
to the project objectives, and the national team took a leading role in the project preparation and carried out
most of the technical work for the PAD. The national team took full responsibility in the identification of
project components, which, it argued, were important to address most urgent needs of the poor. The
national team's strong beliefs in project objectives and its design were crucial in getting the project
approved by the Parliament.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall implementation performance of the Government was satisfactory. The Government kept its
commitment to the project by allocating necessary human, physical and financial resources for project
implementation. The project was implemented entirely by the Government, and, despite the complexity of
project implementation arrangements, the technical staff of the three sectoral ministries involved in the
project worked well together towards achieving project objectives and outcomes.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the National Development Planning Commission is rated satisfactory. The NDPC did



                                                      - 10 -

an excellent job in coordinating project activities with sectoral ministries as well as district assemblies,
NGOs, and local communities. The NDPC also reached out to other development partners working on
similar issues to share and benefit from common experiences.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Component 1. Community-based nutrition and food security

1. Within the limited fiscal space of developing countries, involvement of community volunteers
provides a complementary and inexpensive method for delivery of social services.                  Community
volunteers were essential for the success of the nutrition component of Ghana CBPR project. Trained and
equipped by the project, community volunteers conducted every month growth promotion and malnutrition
monitoring as well as assisted in the conduct of immunization by nurses. Given the limited financial and
human resources in social sectors, this effective and inexpensive method of service delivery could
potentially be applied in other sectors.

2. Given the importance of health outcomes in early stages, if funds are limited, community nutrition
programs should primarily target children below the age of two years old.

3. The project design needs to be flexible to adapt to local realities. The initial criteria for selecting
community growth promoters, for instance, required that all selected individuals could read and write, but
not many members of some of the communities were literate. The experience showed that the task of
growth promotion could be carried out by an illiterate person as well as far as he/she could use the visual
manuals developed by the project, and, therefore, the selection criteria was changed to take into account
community situations.

4. Sensitization and capacity building at all levels are crucial for the project's success. Continuous
sensitization is one of the key strategies that need to be adopted to secure the commitment of all stakeholder
groups at all levels, including district and community leaders, growth promoters, and the communities at
large. Regular meetings with districts, like monthly meetings in the Sefwi Wiawso and Bongo districts,
proved to be very beneficial in providing direction and support to the focal points, growth promoters, and
members of CICs. The monthly meetings of the growth promoters with the health sector staff provided a
unique learning opportunity for the former and helped in identifying and addressing capacity gaps.

5. Poor access to potable water hinders the project outcomes. The poor access to potable water in some
communities resulted in poor response of children to growth indicators, and the project experience showed,
improvements in the health condition and weight gain of the children are very often negated by the
unhygienic/untreated water that is used in the households.

Component 2. Street children

1. The issue of street children remains to be challenging for the Government and service providers,
and Ghana is not an exception in that regard. Street children programs could achieve better results if they
are not limited just to basic assistance to children in the street, but rather include development-oriented
activities through integration into the family, school and labor market. The issue of street children cannot



                                                      - 11 -

be solved separately without addressing the causes of this phenomenon, which in many cases are closely
linked to well-being of households.

2. Street children interventions require particular knowledge and expertise. Not every NGO has
enough knowledge and expertise to deal with street children, and ,furthermore, NGO programs alone are
not enough to significantly reduce the number of children in the street. It is crucial that NGOs cooperate
among themselves and with local governments to achieve long-term impact and sustainability of
interventions in the area.

3. Family and community-level programs can play a significant role in reducing the number of
children in the street. Strengthening the capacity of the family and community to take care of their your
members can increase the efficiency of street children programs. Parent involvement can increase the
chances of kids remaining in school, for instance, and family-level programs can also have a preventive
function. Community-level programs that focus on job creation, education, and advocacy among relevant
stakeholders would increase awareness of the problems and risks faced by street children.

Component 3. Poverty measurement and monitoring

1. Strengthening the poverty monitoring capacity of district assemblies leads to their empowerment,
increases accountability and informed decision making. Equipped with appropriate and realistic poverty
indicators, district assemblies are able to allocate more efficiently limited public resources to achieve better
results. Thus, poverty monitoring and overall statistics capacity building activities should not be limited
just to the central government, but they should also include local governments.

2. Poverty monitoring capacity building for district assemblies needs to be harmonized and carried
out within the PRSP poverty monitoring efforts. Given the limited resources and in order to achieve
better results, capacity building for district assemblies and their sectoral staff should be incorporated in
similar activities carried out by the country's PRSP team and by sectoral ministries. It would be also useful
to coordinate this work with different donor-driven capacity building efforts.

General lessons

1. Given the short time and limited resources allocated to LILs, such projects should not be
complicated in design and implementation. The Ghana CBPR project had three different components
that were dealing with challenging issues (nutrition, street children, and poverty monitoring) in three
different sectors (health, social protection, and poverty reduction).          The project was also jointly
implemented by three government institutions (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Employment, and NDPC).
This complex design and implementation arrangements hindered the success of the project by slowing down
the project's start-up, creating delays in the disbursement of funds, and increasing the cost of project
management. It also affected the cost of project supervision for the Bank because the supervision required
the participation of different technical specialists for each component.

2. The Bank staff need to be more engaged in the preparation of LILs in order to explain the learning
and innovation nature of this lending instrument. One of the reasons for a long delay for approval of the
Ghana CBPR project by the Parliament was misunderstanding by members of the Parliament about the
nature of LILs, as a new instrument of the Bank at that time. Some of the MPs were against borrowing
money by the Government to carry out "a series of studies to test new approaches in poverty reduction"
(See Section 5). In cases like this, a better engagement by the Bank team in policy and technical dialogue



                                                      - 12 -

with the Government, members of legislature, civic society, and others would help ratification of the project
as well as its national ownership. It is especially true if the project in preparation is the first LIL in the
given country.

3. The national team's lead on project design, preparation and implementation builds capacity and
increases ownership of project objectives and outcomes. The Ghana CBPR project was almost entirely
prepared and implemented by the staff of sectoral ministries involved in the project. This close engagement
in the project design, preparation and implementation increased the sense of national ownership for the
project objectives and outcome, and it also built capacity along the way. Also, in light of the difficulties in
the early period after Board approval, it is important to engage the political leadership as early as possible
during the project preparation to ensure broad country ownership.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is an excerpt from the project evaluation report prepared by NPDC, the implementing
agency:

The NDPC facilitated the design of the CPRP to generate best practices and to document lessons to sustain
the outcomes of poverty reduction interventions at the district and community levels. As a learning project,
the project design allowed for maximum flexibility to enable the communities and districts adopt the most
responsive implementation procedures and systems peculiar to their needs and circumstances.              With
sustainability issues at the background, the project was designed to use existing institutional structures for
activity implementation. The design provided for lessons learnt on the LIL to be used for the design of
larger follow-up projects. The design also ensured that the project implementation structures were in line
with existing structures at the district level.

The project design was, however, complex. It sought to operationalise activities for three different and
independent sectors in one project. Different approaches for the different sub-projects were all being tested
in a single project. There was no apparent relationship between the three components of the project. In
addition, the decentralization program in Ghana is yet to be fully operaitonalised. Sectors at the district
level continue to report to their regional and national authorities with little reference to the District
Assembly. Ownership of the project by the District Assemblies was therefore not fully realized. The
proper function of a LIL is more to facilitate innovation and lesson learning to guide replication and inform
subsequent design. Only a few stakeholders were meaningfully aware of the centrality of the learning
objective of the project. The opportunity to collaborate effectively with relevant institutions and other
stakeholders was not fully explored. The late start of the project also put pressure on some NGOs and
other implementers to press for numerical targets at the expense of the learning objectives. Factors such as
change in government, ministerial appointments and transfers of members of staff of District Assemblies
affected implementation and outcomes. The project signed Memoranda of Understanding with the pilot
district assemblies and this encouraged them to play their assigned roles more effectively.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.

10. Additional Information

During 1999-2001, the Bank rated the CBPR project implementation status unsatisfactorydue to the delays



                                                    - 13 -

with the project effectiveness (see Section 5.1).




                                                  - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Pilot communities able to identify nutrition    50%                                   100%
problems.
Nutrition Unit in Ghana Health Service /MOH 80%                                       100%
has increased capacity to deliver proper
targeted interventions
Decrease in percentage of children 0-59         By 50%                                50%
mos. with low weight for age in pilot
communities
 Increased number of women in reproductive N/A                                        50%
age with body mass index between 18 & 25
Increase in service coverage for street         70%                                   80%
children - at least 3 basic services

NDPC demonstrated capacity to coordinate,       Strengthened and used to revise GPRS  Capacity improved and NDPC takes a
monitor and evaluate poverty reduction                                                leading role in poverty monitoring for GPRS
activities
Poverty data used as input in district projects Used in district plans for 2005       Used for district plans for 2005
NDPC increases utilization of participatory     To be used for GPRS review as well    Currently used for GPRS review
poverty reduction activities


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase capacity at community level to         40%                                   100%
access and manage resources and monitor
services
Ministry of Manpower Development and            Finalized policy available            The draft is available, but the policy is not yet
Employment prepares national policy on                                                finalized
street children
Programs for helping street children            to pilot in 4 urban areas             Piloted in 4 urban areas
designed, piloted evaluated in 4 urban areas
Poverty monitoring system designed and          in 3 districts                        Designed and tested in 3 districts
tested
Program to monitor poverty at the district      in 3 districts                        Tested in 3 districts
level designed, and tested in 3 selected
districts
Poverty data collected at the district level    Yes                                   Yes

1End of project
Please note that the order of presentation of the project's KPIs in the tables above is different than in the
PAD. It was done to better distinguish the project's outcomes and outputs.




                                                                    - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Nutrition and Food Security                                  1.80             1.53            0.85
Assistance to Street Children                                1.80             2.30            1.27
Poverty Measurement and Monitoring                           1.20             0.70            0.58
Project Management                                           0.20             0.67            3.35

Total Baseline Cost                                          5.00             5.20
                         Total Project Costs                 5.00             5.20
                  Total Financing Required                   5.00             5.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.50             0.20         0.10          0.00         0.80
                                  (0.50)           (0.20)      (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.80)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.20          0.00         2.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.20)          (0.00)       (2.20)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         2.00          1.80         3.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.00)          (0.00)       (2.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.50             0.20         4.30          1.80         6.80
                                  (0.50)           (0.20)      (4.30)          (0.00)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.27            0.30         0.02           0.00        0.59
                                  (0.09)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.09)
3. Services                        0.00            1.95         0.00           0.00        1.95
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.51         0.00           0.00        0.51
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)


                                                - 16 -

   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00                1.78             0.00             0.00              1.78
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.27                4.54             0.02             0.00              4.83
                                          (0.09)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.09)
  Services include training and consultants cost. Incremental - operations expenses - grant are included in the
  miscellaneous
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank       Govt.         CoF.        Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Nutrition and Food              1.80        0.50                     1.53         0.49                  85.0      98.0
Security


Assistance to Street            1.80        0.50                     2.30         0.48                  127.8     96.0
Children
Poverty Measurement and         1.20        0.70                     0.70         0.73                  58.3     104.3
Monitoring
Project Management              0.20        0.10                     0.67         0.10                  335.0    100.0

  *Actual/Latest Estimate: Central Government plus Local Government




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/18/98                  6    PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             POVERTY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); LIAISON
                                             OFFICER, NGOs (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/06/99                  9    TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1);PROGRAM
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POVERTY MONITORING
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); NOG
                                             LIAISON (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision
              07/07/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              01/08/2003                6    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1) SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             WORLD BANK DESK,
                                             MINISTRY OF FINANCE (1)
              02/22/2003                2    NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              03/28/2003                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); CON., FIN.
                                             MNGT. SPEC. (1); SENIOR
                                             OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); NUTRITION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



                                              - 19 -

               10/29/2003              8   IMPELMENTATION (1);                S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CON., FIN. MNGT. SPEC.
                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1); SR. NUTRITIONIST (1);
                                           STATISTICIAN (1);
                                           STATISTICS/ST. CHILDRE (1);
                                           TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
               05/14/2004              6   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                           TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FIN. MNGT. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               04/19/2005              6   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL SR.
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); NUTRITION SPECIALIST
                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1)
               12/09/2005              7   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                           SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           TTL, HD ECONOMIST (1);
                                           LANGUAGE PROGRAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1); PROGRAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
               12/09/2005             7     OPERATIONS OFFICER                S    S
                                            (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            TTL, HD ECONOMIST (1);
                                            LANGUAGE PROGRAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)



                                            - 20 -

  Identification/Preparation                               n.a                           146,880
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                    n.a                            61,824
  Supervision                                          119.69                        187,031.69
  ICR                                                   20.55                          59,193.74
  Total                                                140.24                        454,929.43
data are unavailable for staff weeks on identification/preparation & Appraisal/Negotiation




                                                              - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Bank Staff Assessment

Aide-Memoire for April 2005 Implementation Support Mission.

Aide-Memoire for May 2004 Implemetation Support Mission.

Aide-Memoire for March 2003 Implementation Support Mission.

Aide-Memoire for January 2003 Implementation Support Mission.

Aide-Memoire for February 2003 Implementation Support Mission.

Aide-Memoire for July 1998 Identification Mission.

Aide-Memoires and BTOs of World Bank mission on Ghana' s Community -Based Poverty Reducation
Project

B. Other Studies and Assessment

Baseline Survey - PMM

Baseline Survey - N&FSP

Beneficiary Assessment - PMM

Beneficiary Assessment - Street Children

Capacity Assessment Needs of participating districts -PMM

Development of a Policy Document - Street Children

Development of training manuals - N&FSP

Development of manual for the Local Initiatice Fund - N&FSP

Dissemination of Poverty Data/Information - PMM

Evaluation of PMM 1 - PMM

Evaluation of Project Implementation 2 - PMM

Information, Education and Communication Programme - PMM

Knowledge, Attitude & Practice Study - Street Children

Literature Review and Situation Analysis - Street Children

NDPC 2006. Project Implementation Completion Report March 2006.

Process Monitoring & Assessment - Street Children

Process Monitoring and Assessment - N&FSP

Strenghening Community capacity for conflict management - Street Children




                                                  - 24 -

Tracking Study on trained children - Street Children




                                                  - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional project data

BASELINE DATA FOR THE COMMUNITY-BASED NUTRITION PROGRAM

1.1.   Growth Monitoring of Children 0-5 Years and Maternal BMI
 Number of Beneficiaries
 District               Children 0-2 years       Children 2-5 years     Women BMI
 KEEA                          1,243                    560                 800
 Kadjebi                       2,015                    952                 1,240
 Sefwi Wiawso                  1,918                    991                 1,617
 Bongo                         1,905                   1,244                890
 Total                         7,081                   3,747                4,547

 Percentage Attendance at Growth Monitoring Sessions: Children 0-2 yrs
 District                        Baseline (March 2003)             October (2005)
 KEEA                                      45%                          71%
 Kadjebi                                  45.5%                         68%
 Sefwi Wiawso                             42.9%                         70%
 Bongo                                    23.2%                         72%

 Exclusive Breast Feeding Mean Rates
 District                              Baseline Rates           Mean Rate (March 2005)
 KEEA                                     35.5 %                        91%
 Kadjebi                                   63.6%                        86%%
 Sefwi Wiawso                              22.4%                        70%%
 Bongo                                     49.5%                        70%

 Percentage of Children with Low Weight for Age (means)
 District                               Baseline             Mean Performance (October
                                                                      2005)
 KEEA                                    24.9%                        16.3%
 Kadjebi                                 23.8%                        19.7%
 Sefwi Wiawso                            43.5%                        20.0%
 Bongo                                   59.7%                        13.6%


 1.2.    Food Security Sub-Component

                                             Number of Beneficiaries
 District                     Female                   Male                 Total
 KEEA                           160                     64                   224
 Kadjebi                        159                     41                   200
 Sefwi Wiawso                   200                      0                   200
 Bongo                          389                     87                   476
 Total                          908                     192                 1,100




                                               - 26 -

1.3.  Local Initiative Fund (LIF)

                                     Number of Beneficiaries
District            Caregivers            GP                CICs
                 Female     Male    Female     Male   Female    Male  Total
KEEA              798         -       54       66        35     16     969
Kadjebi           337        40       62       57        40     27     563
Sefwi             454         -       62       72        40     25     653
Wiawso
Bongo            1,011        -       38       65        35     15     1164
Total            2,600       40      216       260      150     83    3,349




NUTRITIONAL STATUS OF CHILDREN IN GHANA

                                    stunted         wasted       underweight
Region                           1998   2003    1998      2003   1998   2003
Volta                            17.7    23.3    6.2       13.9  25.9   25.7
Upper West, East and Northern*   24.2    31.7    9.5       12.9  28.9   32.4
Central                          25.5    31.6    9.0       3.0   27.1   22.0
Western                          21.3    28.4   11.2       5.3   23.0   16.5
National                         19.8    29.9    7.5       7.1   23.6   22.1
Source: Ghana DHS, 1998 and 2003
* 2003 data for Upper East only




                                        - 27 -

- 28 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33411

                                                                            2W                                                                           0                                                                   2E
                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                       Tenkodogo
                                                          BURKINA FASO


                      To                    Hamale                                                      Navrongo     U P P E R E A S T
Bobo-
Diolasso                                                                      WalewaleTumu                       Bolgatanga                                                                            GHANA

                                                                                                                                                    Nakpanduri
                                                             U P P E R W E S T

                                                                                                                                  Walewale                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Dapaong



             10N                      Black Volta                           Kolpawn
                                                             Wa
                                                             Wa                                                                                                                                                                10N
                                                                                                                                                    Gushiegu


                                                                                                         White Volta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Djougou
                                                                                           N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                           Yendi
                         To                                                                                          Tamale
  Ferkssdougou                                                                                                                                                                                                     BENIN
                                                               Sawla


                                                                                                    Fufulsu
                                                             Bole                                                                              Daka                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Djougou
                         CTE                                                                                                                    Nakpayili        Oti                         TOGO
                      D'IVOIRE

                             To                                                 BlackVolta                                         Salaga


                           Bouna
                                                                                                                                         Makongo
                                                                                                                                Yeji

                                                                                               Kintampo                                                       Dambai
             8N                                                                                                                                                                                                                8N
                                                                                            Jema                                                            V O L T A
                                                         B R O N G - A H A F O                                 Atebubu
                                                                                                                                         Kwadwokurom
                                                              Tain    Techiman                      Pru
                                                        Berekum                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sokod

                                                         Sunyani                                                                                                Mount Afadjato
                                                                                                                                                                      (880 m)
                                                                   K      w
                                    Bia                                     a   h                                       Afram
                                                                                          u                                                        Lake
                                                                                                                                                            Kpandu                nges

  AgbovilleoT                                                                                     P                                                Volta                                                     To
                                                                                                     l           Agogo                                                          Ra                         Abomey

                                            Goaso                                                       a   t   e  a   u
                                                                                          Kumasi


                                                               Bibiani                                                                 E A S T E R N                       -Togo      Ho

                         Krokosue                                             A S H A N T I                  Anum                                                        im                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Porto-

                                                      no                               Obuasi
                                                                       Diaso                                                  Birim                                     p                                        Novo
                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                      aT                                                               Kade                        Koforidua         kw               Volta           Aflao
             6N                                                                                                   Oda
                                 W E S T E R N                                                                                                                   A                                                              6N
                                                                           Dunkwa
                              Enchi                                                                                                                        GREATER                                                             2E
                                                                                                                                                           ACCRA
             AbidjanoT                                                                                                                                      Tema
                                                                                                    Twifo Praso
                                                                                                                                                     ACCRA
                                                                Prestea                                    C E N T R A L                                                                       GHANA
                                                                   Ankobra                   Pra
                                                                                Tarkwa                                             Winneba                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                 Cape Coast                                                                       REGION CAPITALS
Newtown
                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
 This map was produced by                                                                      Sekondi
 the Map Design Unit of The                                    Axim                         Takoradi                                                                                              RIVERS
 World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                    Gulf of G uinea
 colors, denominations and
 any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
 on this map do not imply, on
 the part of The World Bank                                                                  0     20     40     60    80 Kilometers                                                              RAILROADS
 Group, any judgment on the
 legal status                 of any territory,                                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
 or any endorsement or                                                                       0         20         40       60 Miles
 a c c e p t a n c e              o f   s u c h
 boundaries.                                                                2W                                                                           0                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEPTEMBER 2004

