                                                                                             35529
          Nicaragua:PovertyReductionSupportCredit (CreditNo. 3850-NI)
                    Release of SecondTranche Waiver of One Condition
                                                          -
                                      TrancheReleaseDocument

                                       I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) approved inJanuary 2004, provided
financial assistance to Nicaragua to implement the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy
which was considered by the Board on September 25, 2001. The Credit provided support
infour areas: (i)  macroeconomic stability and protecting poverty expenditure, (ii)           public
institutions and governance, (iii)      human capital of the poor and vulnerable populations,
and (iv) broad-based growth. The specific government strategy and corresponding actions
for each of these areas are articulated in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP)
submitted by the authorities to the Bank on December 12,2003.                    '
2.    Nicaragua has made satisfactory progress in maintaining a macro-economic
framework and in carrying out the Strategy as laid out in the LDP, including the specific
actions cited in the DCA for the release of the second tranche. There has also been
satisfactory progress in respect of the key results envisaged in this Credit, as shown in
Table 1.Section I1discusses the macroeconomic situation, Section I11assesses progress
with respect to the Poverty Reduction Strategy and Section IV provides an evaluation of
the completion of the nine specific actions.

                  11. MACROECONOMICPOLICY FRAMEWORK

3.    Nicaragua's economic performance has generally been following an upward
trajectory since 2002, when the current authorities took over. Notable developments
include a robust recovery of economic growth, from 0.8 percent in 2002 to 5.1 in 2004,
while maintaining inflation in single digits. This recovery has been evenly spread out
across many sectors. Export growth has been significant, averaging 42 percent in 2003-
05, and contributing to an accumulation of reserves. Public and private investment also
exhibited a recovery, boosting the country's future growth potential.                      Meanwhile,
domestic financial intermediation recovered from the 2001-02 crisis in the banking
system by undergoing a process of consolidation.                      These positive developments are
mainly attributable to the implementation of sound economic policies and a generally
positive external environment duringthis period.

4.    In2005, Nicaragua's macroeconomic performance weakened, reflecting inpart the
oil price shock and increased domestic political polarization. The IMF-supported
program went off track on account of large public wage increases inthe 2005 budget and
a slowing down of the reform process. GDP growth has slowed down to a projected 4
percent for 2005 and inflation has picked up to 10% percent (y/y) as of October 2005,
with rising core inflation as well. Despite robust export and remittance growth,
international reserves increased only by about $15 million (7 percent of adjusted NIR) in
2005, reflecting in part the higher oil bill and delayed donor disbursements, and a
relatively loose monetary policy stance. While fiscal revenues have continued to grow,


` SeeWorld Bank Report No. 27491-Nl,Annex 1 containing the Letter of Development Policy.

the primary fiscal deficit has increased, under pressurefrom large losses inthe electricity
sector, coupled with rising recurrent expenditures (wages and transfers, including to
municipalities). Risks also arise from the recently approved Tax Code which could
weaken tax administration, and which needs to be reformed. Even so, the consolidated
public sector deficit in2005 is projectedto fall to about 2.2 percent of GDP (after grants).

5.    In response to the deteriorating tendencies observed in early 2005, the authorities
expedited approval of a 2006 budget that avoids an increase in the overall deficit and
entails a rise in the public wage bill that is only slightly above inflation. Preliminary
information indicates that the approved budget implies a substantial underlying
adjustment given the large, one-time electoral expenditures (estimated at one percent of
GDP) that will fall due in 2006. In addition, to address mounting losses in the power
sector, the authorities have increased electricity rates by almost 10 percent as of October
2005 and have committed to additional power rate increasesneededto eliminate lossesin
the sector. They have also prepared a monetary program for 2006 consistent with
building reserves and lowering inflation. Progress has also beenmade with advancing on
important macro-structural reforms.       These measures have led to a strengthened
macroeconomic framework that resulted in the successful completion of the pending
PRGFreviews inJanuary 2006 and the extensionof that Programto end-2006.

6.    Nicaragua reached the Completion Point under the Heavily Indebted Poor Country
Initiative in January 2004, and the IMFBoard approved further debt relief for Nicaragua
under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) in December 2005. The World
Bank's Board is scheduled to consider MDRI debt relief for Nicaragua in March 2006.
While the relief provided by both initiatives greatly enhances the prospects for future
fiscal stability, Nicaragua also has a significant domestic debt (of around 25 percent of
GDP) that continues to burdenpublic finances and deserves careful monitoring.

111.PROGRESSINCARRYINGOUT THE POVERTY REDUCTIONTRATEGY

Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability and ProtectingPoverty Expenditures

7.    Important actions have been taken to reduce the fiscal vulnerabilities implied by the
pensionreform and the Municipal Transfers Law. These components of the Strategy have
been satisfactorily implemented. The authorities have managed to avoid a massive fiscal
deficit that would have resulted from the pension reform planned earlier by the
authorities and prevented, for the coming years, the onset of an increasing fiscal burden
on account of the social security system. The actions taken to neutralize the fiscal burden
of revenue transfers to municipalities allow the impact of decentralization to be fiscally
sustainable inthe medium term, while protecting the quality of service delivery.

Building Public Institutions and Governance

8.    The Government has made reasonable progress in the implementation of the public
sector reform agenda. Most remarkable achievements include: a) accreditation process
for civil servants is well advanced, although implementation of the Civil Service Law
was slower than expected, b) a new financial management legislation was enacted and
has begun to be implemented, establishingthe basis for budget and accounting reform, c)
full integration of capital and externally financed expenditures was achievedmaking the

                                              2

budget more comprehensive, d) institutional functions to govern and promote public
procurement reform were clarified and modernizationof procurement systems is under
implementation, e) a monitoring and evaluation system of indicators to permanently
assess progress in the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy was also
developed and made publicly available, and f> social accountability mechanisms were
enhancedand consultationpracticeshavebeeninstitutionalized.

9.   Public expenditure management has improved since the approval of the Financial
Management and Budget Regime Law and its implementation starting with the 2006
budget. The Law improvesbudgetingof foreign-financedinvestmentprojectsand budget
registration procedures. Within-year budget reporting, on an administrative, economic
and functional basis, is available quarterly, enabling active management of spending.
Poverty reducing expenditures are clearly defined in the budget and tracked during their
execution. Inaddition, the 2006 budget includes a medium-termbudget framework and a
consolidatedpublic sector budget. It is expected that similar improvements will be seen
inthe government financial statements correspondingto budget executionin2005, which
will be issued in compliance with the enhancements introduced by the Law, in early
2006. Areas where work is still in progress include further consolidation of the treasury
single account system, enhancements to cash flow programming, implementation of
public expenditure tracking tools, and the security-specific audits of the Integrated
Systemof FinancialManagementand Auditing(SIGFA).

10. Overall, Nicaragua is on the right track, albeit not at the pace that was expected
when the operation was prepared, in enhancing the fiduciary framework and in
modernizing public sector management instruments. Nicaragua still faces important
challenges to improve its public financial management systems. The internal audit units
lackqualifiedstaff andfinancial resources, butthe authorities have started to implement a
plan to strengthen internal controls and auditing capacity. The government has a weak
procurement system, but is in the process of modernizing the legal framework for
procurement activities and developing a procurement module within SIGFA that will
give transparency to government contractual transactions once completed. The budget
includes mainly central government administration and does not provide information on
the budgets of local governments or all autonomous government entities carrying out
non-commercialactivities. The Bank will continue supporting the government through
the Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC), and the monitoring of
implementationof the public financial management and procurement plans (which were
informedby the CFAA and CPAR)

11. Progress on civic engagement and transparency has been supported by the
authorities by promotingthe approvalof the Law on Access to Information.During2005,
the executive and legislative branches of the GON have been coordinating with a
coalition of Nicaraguan civil society organizations (comprising twenty-one groups) for
the elaboration of a final version of the Law which is expected to be passed by the
National Assembly in early 2006. This process is being supported by Bank funds from
the civil society program. The GON has already begun to implement a Voluntary
Transparency Strategy to provide public access to government information in five pilot
ministries, with groups of civil society to serve as reference groups for each pilot. In
addition, the National System of Development Indicators (SINASID) has been


                                            3

successfully launched. SINASID provides broad access to indicators and systematizes
progress made to date inthe implementation of the PRSP (websitewww.sinasid.gob.ni).

Human Capital of thePoor and VulnerablePopulation

12. BasicEducation. The PRSC supported the school autonomy model which is widely
recognized as a means to improving governance, accountability and decision making
autonomy in the education sector. Autonomous schools are run by the community with a
principal who is elected by community members, and receive financing in the form of
capitation transfers from the Government. The international agencies have strongly
endorsed this model in Nicaragua, and the approval of a School Autonomy Law was one
of the conditionalities for HIPC. The incorporation of schools is the operationalization of
the Law whereby, in a progressive manner, traditional schools which were managed
directly by the Central Government have beentransformed into autonomous schools.

13. In terms of the achievement of the expected outcomes established as part of the
PRSC agreement, the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture (MECD) reported a
primary school completion rate of 66 percent, which greatly surpasses the goal of 44
percent. Other essential activities to enhance the impact of the incorporation of new
schools into the program include a national student assessment scheduled for
implementation in October 2006 and a school-based information and dissemination
system that integrates ongoing data collection, auto-evaluation, school planning and
dissemination of performance into a single program to improve information flows, social
accountability and ultimately service delivery at school level. The student assessment is
expected to be carried out in October 2006 as part of a regional effort that requires
participating countries to coordinate testing delivery schedules. The assessment results
are expected to provide international as well as national country comparability given the
structured approach and methodology to be used. The MECD's Operational Planfor 2006
includes counterpart funds to roll out the student assessment as well as a dissemination
strategy which will integrate ongoing data collection, auto-evaluation, school planning
and dissemination of student and school performance into a interactive management
information system to improve information flows, social accountability and, ultimately,
service delivery at school level.

14. Health. The Nicaragua health sector has achieved significant progress along the
action lines set forth in the PRSC. The main purpose of actions included in the PRSC I
was to strengthen the health sector policy framework and regulations to tackle inequity
and insufficient access to essential maternal and child health care services for the most
deprived communities in Nicaragua. Since the inception of the PRSC Ithe country has:
(i) anddisseminatedaNationalHealthPlanandaFiveYearImplementationPlan
   defined
(FYIP), focusing on providingbasic maternal and child care services to about half million
of the poorest population, (ii)  the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been implementing a
results-based planning and budgeting system which, combined with the targeted FYIP,
will have a pro-poor reallocation of resources across geographical departments, (iii) upon
evaluation of 14 existing primary health care programs, the M O H has adopted a single
strategy for extending primary health care services, including essential services for
maternal and child health, nutrition advice and reproductive health, (iv) this strategy is
beingoperationalized with the external support of a new multi-donor fund (FONSALUD)
which has been created and instrumentedunder the leadership of the MOH. Progress has

                                             4

been slower regarding the adoption of an updated multi-sectoral population action plan.
Although some evaluations of the existing population plan have been done, they are
partial and have not led to the requested updating of the population action plan. The lack
of ownership over the population policy and of the appropriate policy making and
coordination framework within the GoN, and as well as lack of outreach to other
important social actors on this matter, are all responsible for insufficient progress.

15. Water and Sanitation. The first five year management contract in the water sector
started in October 2004 for the decentralized operators in Matagalpa and Jinotega. The
public water company ENACALalso signed a construction and managementcontract for
the sewage treatment plant in Managua, as well as a service contract aimed at improving
its commercial area. In December 2004 the sector policy body CONAPAS approved a
draft sector strategy. The water sector donor group considered the strategy to be a
coherent framework for the sector and a satisfactory basis to move towards a SWAP.
Parliament approved a modification to the ENACAL law to allow the operator to recover
overdue accounts of larger consumers by legal means. Finally, the water regulator INAA
has initiated, although limited by serious political restrictions, its supervisory role over
ENACAL.

16. Social Protection. In May 2005 the Social Cabinet approved a five-year
implementation plan for the Social Protection Policy, Solidaridad. One of the goals of
Solidaridad i s to strengthen the social protection system's ability to provide an effective
safety net for vulnerable population groups, especially children aged 0 to 5. To this
effect, the Ministry of Family is currently undergoing a general reorganization in order to
improve coordination betweenits programs and better use its limited resources. Dialogue
with other government and civil society organizations in the social area is incipient.
Plans for implementingSolidaridad in a subset of municipalities are still at the discussion
stage and budget allocation remains limited. The Ministry of Family is also running a
pilot conditional cash transfer program. The general design of the pilot, which builds on
the successful Red de Protecci6n Social, and the impact evaluation are close to
completion.

Broad-Based Growth

17. Improving the Private Investment Climate. Numerous preparatory actions have
beentaken to improve the overall climate for the private sector duringthe past two years.
A plan of action based on an Administrative Simplification Program has been agreed
upon with the Government and has been under implementation. The Administrative
Simplification Program has been crucial in reducing the number of processes to start a
new business from 12 in 2003 to 8 in2005 and the time neededfrom 71 days in 2003 to
42 days in 2005. The Centro de Exportaciones e Importaciones (CEI) has been
transformed into an autonomous, private sector operated, export promotion agency, that
has been renamed Nicaexport. Nicaexport offers a wide range of services covering
market intelligence, business development services, and market promotion and has had a
very positive impact in assisting many entrepreneurs become exporters, and contributing
to the rise of exports and job creation in Nicaragua. The Government has approved an
action plan and delivered to the Bank a letter of intent agreeing to support the preparation
of the Investment Climate Assessment survey. The Presidency has sent the proposed
Competition Law to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Government has

                                              5

designed its own labor training reform program for the National Institute for Technical
Training (INATEC). Finally, with regards to microfinance, the Minister of Finance
reached a consensus with other agencies and sent a modified proposal for the Broad Base
Access to Financial Services project that was acceptable to the Bank. As part of the
implementation of the project, the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial
Institutions has begun to work on improving a credit registry and strengthening the
regulatory framework for microfinance organizations. The results of these activities have
helped Nicaragua to increase its rank under Doing Business to 59, out of 155 in 2005,
and, expand foreign direct investment from US$213 million in2003 to US$229 million in
2005.

18. Access to TelecommunicationsServices. Access to telecommunication services in
Nicaragua is still low and mostly limited to urban areas. Penetration levels are the lowest
inthe region and also in disaccord with the country's income level. The low penetration
i s partly caused by the unequal coverage, which i s concentrated in the Pacific region,
especially in the urban areas. More than 60 percent of the total fixed lines in service are
located in Managua, which only represents about 22 percent of the total population. With
the support of the PRSC and the current Telecommunications Reform Project, TELCOR
prepared a draft decree for the creation of FITEL, a Telecommunications Investment
Fund to promote development of telecommunication services in rural areas. The
President approved this Decree in December of 2003. However, a subsequent decree,
Decree 128-2004, reforming TELCOR's Organic Law Regulations, led to confusion, as
some lawyers were of the opinion it derogated the creation of FITEL. To correct this
situation, the President of the Republic approved a new FITELDecree that was published
in the official Gazette on January 26, 2006. The sources for the Fund come from
operators' contributions. TELCOR published the invitation to bid for the first FITEL
project in December of 2004. It awarded the bid inApril of 2005 and signed the contract
for the installation of 346 public telephones in small villages (one telephone per village)
inrural areas and to extend cellular telephone coverage to 28 ruralareas that did not have
this service.   The project is under implementation and is expected to be completed in
May of 2006 and be followed by a similar investment operation before the end of FY06.

19. Rural Electrification. The restructuring of the Development Fund for the Electricity
Industry (FODIEN) is a critical step for increasing electricity coverage in rural areas in
Nicaragua, by providing the institutional setting and predictable financing vehicle for
electrification projects in rural areas. At the same time FODIEN has endorsed specific
regulations and rules to maximize the effectiveness inthe allocation of funds, increase the
impact of electrification efforts and set up an appropriate incentive framework for
competition for project development. Despite the above mentioned success in the
restructuring of FODIEN, the institutional disputes betweenthe Executive Power and the
Assembly during 2005 brought to a halt several bidding processesfor electricity projects.
With the sanctioning of the "Ley Marco para la Gobernabilidad y Estabilidad del Pais,"
(Law 558) the institutional dispute has been solved but it is still to be shown that the
newly appointed regulator can successfully fulfill its duties in terms of concession
processing and approval in order to make possible the actual implementation of the
government rural electrificationplan. This i s particularly relevant for rural electrification
projects outside the Union Fenosa concession, such as El Ayote- Santo Domingo
Hydroproject sponsored by the World Bank, where an international bid for the project
was not completed.

                                              6

20. Transportation. Road maintenance has encountered some difficulties because of a
lack of a structured and well funded rehabilitation program. The Bank has advised the
Government of the importance of setting up a structured and well funded road
maintenance program, and provided seed funding for setting up the Nicaraguan road
maintenance program, FOMAV, a few years back, with funds from the Third Road
Rehabilitationand Maintenance Project. The FOMAV is a good example of the synergies
that were developed betweenthe Poverty Reduction Support Credit and the Third Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. The Government recently approved a law that
ensures that the FOMAV will be financially self sustainable in the future, which was one
of the prior actions needed for second tranche release. Also, the Bank supported the
program for building roads in many rural areas of the countryside with concrete blocks,
adoquines, having financed the construction of 220 kilometers of new roads with such
blocks. The economic and social impact that the program has had on the population
affected by the new concrete roads has beenwell expressedby them.

21. Indigenous territories. Titling of indigenous lands is important for poverty
reduction inNicaragua, as it would lead to increasedequity, environmental sustainability,
and economic growth, but it has had a long and complex history in the country. The
authorities have partially achieved the objective of improving the security of land tenure
of indigenous communities who are one of the country's most vulnerable groups.
Demarcation of land has been completed and significant progress in titling has taken
effect, however the registration has been delayed. This process will bring access to
communal land rights, for the first time in the history of Nicaragua, to indigenous
communities. Consequently, it represents a historical precedent which the authorities
have decided to address with attention and prudence to ensure legal resolution of
potential conflicts between third parties currently occupying the land and indigenous
communities. The process was slow to start and when it moved forward several obstacles
were encountered. The correct titling of the first territories is crucial to the sustainable
attainment of secure land tenure so as to avoid settingcontestable precedents. Agreement
between the regional authorities, the state institutions, the Supreme Court and the
indigenous beneficiaries has not been reached yet and the authorities do not want to
conclude the process before agreement is reached. The Bank has been closely
accompanying the process and providing technical assistance to the institutions and other
stakeholders, including indigenous beneficiaries.




                                            7

                    Areas and Indicators                                                                                                         End-of-Program Outcomes                                                                                                                                    Progress as of December
                                                                                                                                        Expectedat the Outset of PRSC                                                                                                                                                                       2005"

                                                                       1. Macroeconomicstability and ProtectingPoverty Expenditures  ......................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -

1. Decreaseof proportionof
                peoplelivingin extreme                                                                                                1. 14.3%in2005                                                                                                                                            1. LivingStandards

                poverty                                                                                                                                          (down from 15.1% in 2001)                                                                                                                          MeasurementSurvey was

2. Increasein proportionof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          conductedin 2005.

                poverty-reducing                                                                                                      2.                    11.6% in 2005                                                                                                                                           Resultswill be available

                expenditures in relationto                                                                                                                       (up from 10%in 2002)                                                                                                                               later in 2006.

                 GDP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. 12.7% in 200412

3. Decreaseof fiscal deficit as                                                                                                       3.                    6.3% in 2005
                percentageof GDP (before                                                                                                                         (downfrom 10.5% in 2002)                                                                                                              3. 6.0% in 2005                                               l3

                grants)
4.               Decreaseof totalpublic debt                                                                                          4.                    116%in 2005                                                                                                                                4. 88.8% in 2005 l3

                as percentageof GDP                                                                                                                              (down from 198% in 2002)
                                                                                                                                    ......................................................................................................................................

            ........................................................................................ ,.........................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                       11. BuildingPublicInstitutionsand Governance                                                                                                                                ................................ ............................................................
 1. Increaseof employees
                incorporatedinto the                                                                                                   1. 15%to 20% in2005                                                                                                                                       1. 2% (820 employees,as of
                administrativecareer as a                                                                                                                           (up from 0% in 2002)                                                                                                                            I1Trimester of 2005)
                percentageof totalpublic
                employees                                                                                                       ,     2.                    100%in 2005
                                                                                                                                                                 (up from 15%in 2003)                                                                                                          2.                   100%in 200412
2. Increase in the percentage of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                resources channeled through
                CUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i

                                                                                  111.Human 'apitalof the Poor and Vulnerable PoDulation
1. Increaseof theprimary                                                                                                              1. 44% in2005                                                                                                                                             1. 40% in2005 (preliminary)
                completionrate                                                                                                                                   (up from 38.5% in2002)
2. Increasein the national                                                                                                            2.                    76%in2005                                                                                                                           2.                  75.8% in 200412
                coverage of potablewater                                                                                                                         (up from 72.8% in2002)
3. Decreasein maternal                                                                                                                3.                    90/100,000 in 2005                                                                                                                  3.                  87/100,000 in 200412
                mortality rate                                                                                                                                      (down from 100/100,000 in
                                                                                                                                                                 2002)

............................................................................................................................. ...;.................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   IV. Broad-basedGrowth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;...................................................................................................................
1. Decreaseinfirmregistration I                                                                                                       1. 17daysin200.5                                                                                                                                  II 1.                        14 days (as of I1Trimester
                                                                                                                                ~




                time                                                                                                                                                (down from 28 days in                                                                                               I                           of2005)
2. Increaseof index of non                                                                                                                                       2003)                                                                                                                  I 2.                         163 (Isemester 2005)
                traditionalexport                                                                                                     2.                    107.6in 2005                                                                                                                '                           FOBvalues
                                                                                                                                ~




3. Increasein value of foreign                                                                                                  I                                (up from 100in 2002)                                                                                                           3.                  US$ 229 millionin 2005
                privateinvestment                                                                                                     3.                   US$ 237 millionin 2005                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                                                 (up from US$ 204 millionin 1
                                                                                                                                ~




                                                                                                                                                                 2002)
/lIndicatorsmatrixdatasubmittedforPRSCISupervisionMeetingonSeptember27,2005.
12 2005 data will be availableafter IQuarter of 2006
13 Projected




                                                                                                                                                                                                       8

          IV. SPECIFICACTIONS FOR SECONDTRANCHERELEASE

22. This section assesses the status of the nine specific actions (cited in italics) that were
required to be completed prior to the release of the secondtranche, as listed inSchedule2
to the ProgramDocument and referred to inSection2.02 (d) of the DCA.

The macroeconomicpolicyframework of theBorrower is satisfactory

23. The actionhasbeencompleted. Nicaragua's economic performance has generally
been following an upward trajectory since 2002, reflected in a robust recovery of
economic growth, from 1percent in 2002 to 5.1 in 2004, while maintaininginflation in
single digits. Public and private investment also exhibited a recovery, boosting the
country's future growth potential, while domestic financial intermediation recovered
from the 2001-02 crisis in the banking system, which is undergoing a process of
consolidation. In 2005, Nicaragua's macroeconomic performance weakened, reflecting
in part the oil price shock and increased domestic political polarization. Even so, GDP
growth has only slowed down to a projected 4 percent for 2005, and in response to
pressures on the primary fiscal deficit last year, the authorities expedited the approval of
a 2006 budget (November 25, 2006) that keeps the overall deficit unchanged. Given
strong macroeconomic fundamentals and progress in structural reforms, the IMF Board
approved in early 2006 the pending PRGF reviews and an extensionof the Programuntil
end 2006.

The Borrower's National Assembly has approved a budgetfor calendar year 2005 (or
latest subsequent budget approved by the National Assembly prior to the Second
Tranche Release Date) consistent with Poverty Reduction Expenditures of the Non-
Financial Public Sector equal to at least 11.6% of the Borrower's gross domestic
product (GDP) (in case of the 2005 budget) or 11.8% of GDP (in case of the 2006
budget), or a higherpercentage of GDP (in case of post-2006 budgets).

24.    The action has been completed. The 2005 Budget approved by the National
Assembly allocated resources of 11.6 percent of GDP for poverty reduction spending of
the non financial public sector. The 2006 budget approved in November 2005 allocates
resources equivalent to 13.4 percent of GDP to poverty reduction activities of the non-
financial public sector, surpassingthe target of 11.8 percent.

The Borrower has provided to the Association evidence that Poverty Reduction
Expenditures executed during calendar year 2003 (or during the latest subsequent
calendaryear before the Second TrancheReleaseDate if said Second TrancheRelease
Date occurs after December 31, 2004) represent at least 11% of the Borrower's gross
domesticproduct (GDP) during the sameperiod, or 11.4%of GDP (in case of calendar
year 2004), or 11.6% of GDP (in case of calendaryear 2005), or a higherpercentage of
GDP (in the case of post-2005 calendaryears).

25. The action has been completed. The authorities have satisfactorily met the targets
for poverty spending as a share of GDP, and have set subsequent targets with a positive
trend under the PRSP-11. According to the 2003 Poverty Spending Report, the execution
of poverty reduction expenditures of the non financial public sector in 2003 was 11.5
percent of GDP (above the targeted 11percent). The Poverty Spending Report for 2004,
                                             9

indicated that poverty reduction spending reached 12.3 percent of GDP in 2004 in
contrast to the 11.4 percent target. The Poverty Spending Executionreport from SIGFA
(the Ministry of Finance'sIntegratedSystemfor FinancialManagement andAuditing) for
2005 indicates that poverty spending reached 13.3 percent in 2005, surpassingthe target
of 11.6 percent.

26. Improvements in public financial management incorporate enhanced mechanisms
for implementing and tracking poverty spending. Nicaragua's public expenditure
management (PEM) system has improved since the January 2004 completion point.
Recent upgrades have been completed to the PEM major systems; the Integrated
Financialand Administrative ManagementSystem (SIGFA) and the National System for
Public Investments (SNIP). SIGFA's improvements include integrating the subsystems
for budget, accounting and treasury for monthly closing of national accounting and
conciliation of accounts statements with the budget. SNIP, in accordance to progress in
participatory budgeting under the PRSP-11, has established Territorial Units for Public
Investment (UTIPs) in all departments. The Ministry of Finance (MHCP) manages both
planning and execution of the budget, includingpoverty spending, through SIGFA. The
national budget identifies all public spending and transfers associated with poverty-
reducing activities, includingHIPC debt relief, as well as all other external and internal
sources of financing for those programs. With this information, which is publicly
available, it has been possible to verify that the increase in external resources inflows,
includingfrom HIPCdebt relief, have beendedicatedto poverty-reducingactivities, with
no significant decline in domestic resourcespreviously allocatedto these activities.

To lower the risks and reduce thefiscal impact on the Borrower of pension reform: (i)
the Borrower's Presidency has issued decrees reforming its decrees 57-2000 and 975,
before AFP? begin operation; (ii) the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks and
Superintendencyof Pensionshave agreed on a satisfactory information sharing system
between them; and (iii) the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks and Pensions have
established a Chinese-Wall system to prevent the use of inside information between
AFPs and theirparent companiesin the bankingsystem.

27. The action has not been undertaken, yet the intended result was achieved.
Followinganalysis done by the Bank and the Fund alongwith government authorities in
the context of the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), it was determined that
pension reform as mandated by Law 340 would have had an extremely negative fiscal
impact for at least twenty years, and would have been unlikely to provide the promised
long term fiscal relief. Accordingly, the Government of Nicaragua first suspended its
implementation, and the National Assembly finally repealed it. This eliminated entirely
the fiscal impact that part (i)
                              of the action aimed to mitigate only partially. In addition,
the repeal of Law 340 eliminated the need for private pension fund administration and
hence for a regulatory agency. Accordingly, Law 388 which had created the
Superintendency of Pensions, was also repealedand parts ii)and iii)of the prior action,
became inconsequential.Additionally, Law 558 has temporarily preventedthe increase in
the fiscal burden of the social security system that would have resulted from the
implementationof a new Social Security Act (Law 539), and has created an opportunity
to reopenthe public debate on the future of social security inNicaragua.


 Pension FundAdministrators

                                            10

TheBorrower'sPresidency has issued a decree modifyingthe regulationsof theLaw of
Municipalities topromotefiscal sustainability of theBorrower by balancing, within the
limitations imposed by law, municipal expenditures with resources transferred to
municipalities, and the budget Cfor the year on which compliance with paragraph 1
above is based) conforms with the approveddecree).

28. The action has been completed, The Decree (No. 93-2005), dated November 29,
2005, was approved by the Government and published in the Official Gazette on
November 29, 2005. Prior to the finalization of the decree there were considerable
exchanges betweenGovernment and technical Bank staff that helped identify duplication
of public sector functions, responsibilities and budgets that should be devolved to
municipalities and duplication of budgets in the proposed 2006 budget. Measures to
reduce budgetary duplication and definition of all municipal responsibilities were thus
incorporated in the reforms. The decree foresees achieving fiscal neutrality with
government targets of 60 percent in year 2006 and 100percent inyear 2007 in a way that
protects quality of service delivery. These actions are likely to allow the impact of the
decentralizationto befiscally sustainable inthe mediumterm.

SECEPISNIP has implemented complementary regulations of the National System of
Public Investment, by incorporating all public investmentprojects and programs into
an official registry of public investmentsgoverned by such regulations, including those
financed by grants

29. The action has been completed. The existence of various and inconsistent
registries of public investment data in past years inhibited Government authorities and
donors from doing strategic analyses and planningof public investment. After issuing a
Presidential Decree establishing a single unified official registry of public investments
(Decree No.83-2003 published in La Gazette No. 230 on December 3, 2003), the
authorities followed an implementationplan led by the Technical InvestmentCommittee
comprising the Ministry of Finance (MHCP), the National System for Public Investment
(SNIP), the CentralBank and the Secretariatof ForeignRelations(SECREX). At the end
of 2004, the Bank and other membersof the donor community suggestedadjustments that
included the incorporation of sectoral and regional classifications of investments. The
authorities made the required adjustments and launched the official website on May,
2005 (see www.snip.gob.ni) thus making the information available to the public. All
investment projects havebeenregistered inthe database starting in 2005, includingthose
of some autonomous institutions that are not requiredby law to be included inthe Public
Investment Program of the National Budget, such as the National Electricity Company
(ENEL) and the InternationalAirport AdministrationEnterprise (EAAI). The System is
being constantly monitored. Future plans envision an automated interface between the
official Public Investment Database and the Government's Integrated System for
FinancialManagement andAuditing(SIGFA).

The Borrower's National Assembly has approved a budget for calendar year 2005
including funding for the incorporation of 1,180 additional schools into the
ParticipatoryEducation Regime.



                                           11

30. The action has been completed, The Ministry of Education and Culture (MECD)
incorporated 2,914 schools in 2003, 1,169 in 2004 and 644 in 2005, bringing the total
from 2003 to 2005 to 4,727 schools. The Bank team reviewed the official information
provided as evidence of compliance with this action and is satisfied. It should be noted
that the agreement with the Bank, in the context of the PRSC, was to incorporate a total
of 4,719 schools by 2005, broken down as follows: 3,033 schools in 2003,500 schools in
2004 and 1,186 schools in 2005. Since the process of incorporation moved much more
rapidly than originally planned, particularly in 2004, the total number of schools needed
to be incorporated in 2005 to reach the global goal was only 644. In 2006, the MECD
intends to incorporate all remaining schools into the regime (about 1,993 schools). The
budgetto carry out this task has beenincorporated into the MECD's Operational Planfor
2006.

CONAPAS has approved a national water and sanitation strategy defining, inter alia,
ENACAL`s role in the urban areas, andFISE's role in the rural areas.

31. The action has been completed. In December the sector policy body CONAPAS
approved the draft sector strategy. After a comprehensive consultation process with civil
society and the international community the water sector donor group coordinated by
PRSC-Cofinancier KfW (German Financial Cooperation) considered the strategy a
coherent framework for the sector and a satisfactory basis to move towards a SWAP.
Given the conceptual framework of the PRSP-I1 and MDGs for the sector, the strategy
aims at substantially improving coverage, quality and sustainability. The principal
strategic actions are intended to strengthen both CONAPAS and the regulatory body
INAA,as well as to modernize and decentralize the operator inthe urbanarea, ENACAL,
and to implement a community-based sustainable operation model for rural areas, under
the responsibility of FISE.

The Borrower has provided the Association evidence that it has completed
demarcation, titling and registration of at least 5 indigenous territories in the
Borrower'sBosawas region.

32. This action has been partially completed. A waiver is proposed. Whereas key
implementation steps, such as demarcation and significant progress in titling, have taken
effect, registration has been delayed, every stage of the process required consensus and
proved to be more complex, technically, legally and institutionally, and more time-
consuming than originally envisaged. The process of attaining recognized land rights by
the indigenous communities, while avoiding on-going and future disputes, has been fully
supported by the authorities and acknowledged by the Bank. The additional efforts and
time spent havebeen critical to maintain support of the process and avoid settingnegative
precedents for the titling and registration of the remaining territories. The authorities'
action plan to complete registration is a two step process. First, by end August 2006, to
complete the consultation process to develop consensus betweenregional representatives,
state authorities and beneficiaries, about the process to register the indigenous titles.
Second, once consensus has been reached, complete the technical and legal actions for
registration. The Nicaraguan authorities are fully committed to the registration, including
reaching a consensus with indigenous beneficiaries that is acceptable to the Supreme
Court, as well as establishing agreements for "convivencia pacifica" between the
communities and non-indigenous residents, and containing the fiscal consequences of

                                            12

potential third party claims. Since the delay inthe completion of the registration does not
adversely affect the implementation of the overall program supported by the PRSC series
or its components, it is proposed that a waiver be granted for this action. Nevertheless, in
order to reflect this delay, the amount of the disbursement would be reducedby SDR 3.5
million (as per the Borrower's cancellationof said amount pursuant to Section 6.01 of the
relevant GeneralConditions).


CNE has restructured FODIEN in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit through: (i) the necessary modifications of FODIEN's legal structure
based on an evaluation by CNE of such structure; (ii) the entry into effect of rules and
proceduresfor selection, implementation and monitoring of subprojects supported by
FODIEN; (iii) the establishment of funding, financing mechanisms and subsidy
allocation criteriafor subprojects; (iv) the entry into effect of rules andproceduresfor
FODIEN's management; and (v) the adoption of a medium term financing plan of
FODIEN, consistentwith overallfiscal sustainability of theBorrower.

33. The action has been completed. The modification of the legal structure of
FODIEN has been approved by Presidential Decree No. 9-2006. CNE has put in place
operational guidelines for standardized financial and technical evaluation of projects, and
contracted a financial intermediary for efficient fund management activities. FODIEN
has approved a Tri- Annual Investment Plan which serves as evidence of planned
commitment of funds. At the same time, CNE has issued a Policy on Prices and Subsidies
to ensure adequate incentives for investments in the electricity sector and subsidy
schemes for low income consumers. As part of FODIEN restructuring, a draft law has
been submitted to the assembly to regulate the transfer of rural electrification assets to
operators and ensure an adequate framework for the maintenance and operation of
projects.




                                            13

