Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB396 
Project Name 
NICARAGUA PRSC I 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%), general industry and 
trade sector (15%), health (15%), general agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (15%), primary education (15%) 
Project ID 
P082885 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Address: Ave. Bolivar, in front of National Assembly building 
Phone: (505) 222 7231 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [X] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
  [ ] S
F
  [X] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 14, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 10, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 22, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Bank support through programmatic lending will provide balance of payments support of the 
Government’s implementation of poverty reducing and fiduciary strengthening reforms. More 
importantly, programmatic lending will contribute to improve the impact of public programs 
through increased efficiency of public sector spending and better donor coordination, thus 
making the poverty reduction efforts more successful.  
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
This Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is the first annual credit that would support the 
implementation of Nicaragua’s poverty reduction strategy. To achieve this goal the PRSC will 
focus on priority subject areas contained in the four pillars of the PRSP, which are building 
public institutions and governance (Pillar IV), human capital of the poor and vulnerable 
population (Pillars II and III) and growth and competitiveness (Pillar I). 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The PRSC will accomplish its objective by supporting the following subject areas contained in 
the PRSP: 
 
Building Public Institutions and Governance
 (Pillar IV of PRSP), is a key factor in the reduction 
of corruption and the achievement of the necessary fiduciary safeguards for budgetary support 
that would allow more poverty reducing assistance. With the intention of focusing only on 
priority areas, the PRSC will support reforms on civil service, public investment program and 
Page  2
 
 
medium term expenditure framework, public sector financial management, public procurement, 
civic engagement, decentralization and poverty analysis. 
 
Human capital of the poor and vulnerable population
 (Pillars II and III of PRSP). PRSC would 
support the government’s efforts to promote better coordination and an effective use of 
resources, as well as a series of reforms in basic education, health, population, social protection 
and water and sanitation. 
 
Growth and competitiveness
 (Pillar I of PRSP). The PRSC would support improvements in the 
areas of property rights, agriculture and forestry, access and quality of infrastructure, competition 
policy, investment climate, and the financial sector, including the reform of the pension system.    
 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
The proposed PRSC is a structural adjustment operation covering a broad spectrum of economy-
wide policies and institutions. The environmental provisions of OD8.60 
(Adjustment Lending 
Policy) 
apply. No significant impact on environmental or social issues is foreseen.  
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
70 
 Total 
70 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Amparo Ballivian 
Title: Country Manager 
Tel: 5398+202 
Fax: 270-0080 
Email: aballivian@worldbank.org 
Location: Managua, Nicaragua (IBRD)
 
