Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
November 6, 2003
 
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas  
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Managua, Nicaragua 
 
Re: 
Nicaragua - Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the  
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) - Grant No. TF052689
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of 
the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
four hundred thousand United States dollars (US$400,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Nicaragua (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for 
the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and any 
information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the Recipient has 
given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter Agreement, confirms 
its consent to such disclosure. 
Page  2
-2- TF052689 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of 
the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
Director 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
CONFIRMED AND AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By:  /s/ Eduardo Montealegre 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Date:  
November 11, 2003 
 
Page  3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Purposes and Activities
1.1 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit (PRSC), which has as its main objective to improve public sector management through the 
promotion of: (a) building public institutions and good governance; (b) investment in human capital of the 
poor and vulnerable groups of population; and (c) broad-based economic growth and competitiveness.  
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
Basic Conditions for Poverty Alleviation
Financing of technical assistance for: (i) assessments of vulnerability; and (ii) meetings to 
help in the development of effective risk management strategies. This component is 
estimated to cost US$54,500 equivalent. 
 
(b) Cross-Sectoral 
Actions 
Financing of the formulation of financial administration law and fiscal responsibility law, as 
well as systems to evaluate impact and track public expenditures. This component is 
estimated to cost US$138,000 equivalent. 
 
(c) Sectoral 
Actions
Financing of the initiatives for improved public health care, water and sanitation, and social 
protection.  Such initiatives will focus on developing norms for an integrated care model and 
decentralizing health care units.  Specific activities to be financed by this component include 
survey work, public consultation with stakeholders and donors, as well as technical work 
and expertise for each sector to define the sectoral strategies.  This component is estimated 
to cost US$167,500 equivalent. 
 
(d) 
Technical Assistance Studies and Grant Audit
Financing of technical assistance of other studies for the Project preparation and Grant audit. 
This component is estimated to cost US$40,000 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, acting through UCRESEP (
Unidad de Coordinación del Programa de Reforma y 
Modernización del Sector Público
), shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Nicaragua for purposes related 
to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA  
Page  4
-2-
shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procureme
nt of the consultants’ services and goods  required 
for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the name of 
the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(in US$)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)   Consultants’ services and 
 
audits 
360,500
100% 
 
(2)   Local training, workshop 
 
and stakeholder consultation 
 
10,000
100% 
 
(3)   Goods 
 
20,000 
87% 
(4)   Operating costs 
9,500
100% 
 
TOTAL 400,000 
========
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be 
deemed to be foreign expenditures. 
 
Page  5
-3-
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments not exceeding forty 
thousand United States Dollars (US$40,000) made for expenditures prior to August 22, 2003; (ii) on account 
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (iii) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such 
payment, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;   
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after January 22, 2004 or such later 
date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except in special 
circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank approval of 
financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four 
months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the 
Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, IDA may, by 
written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver to 
IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal 
applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister in charge of Finance or such other 
person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to 
sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each 
withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and 
that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to, or on the order of, the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (c) 
goods; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at the 
Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant 
withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, 
to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by 
IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U. S. Dollars 
a
special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of the Recipient on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and  
 
Page  6
-4-
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above 
for each such fiscal year or other period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year or such other period agreed to by the Bank: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to 
the Bank such other information concerning such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iii) ensure that such  
statements of expenditure are included in the audit for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the 
Bank, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the 
Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or 
any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has made a 
loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with IBRD or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the effective date 
hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, 
to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in 
financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I and IV of 
the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by 
IDA in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract 
packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan  as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and 
experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval  
 
Page  8
Attachment I 
 
 
-2-
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
(a) 
Goods shall b
e
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). The review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the 
word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”.  
 
(b)  
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines 
 
Page  9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of  
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of US$40,000 to be withdrawn from 
the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  10
Attachment II 
 
 
-2-
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished 
to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA 
shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  11
Attachment II 
 
 
-3-
WB77786 
M:\Nicaragua\JGAGrants\TF052689-Poverty Reduction.doc 
November 4, 2003 6:28 PM
 
