Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3850-NI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 5, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3850-NI 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 2004, between the Republic of Nicaragua (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
December 12, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve poverty reduction (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches 
as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) “AFPs” 
means 
Administradoras de Fondo de Pensiones
,
the private pension 
fund administrators established by Law No. 340 published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 72 and No. 73 on 
April 12, 2000; 
 
(b) 
“Chinese-Wall” means the legal barrier that prevents information originating in 
the pension fund arm of a financial group to be used by other financial institutions of the same 
group to avoid the use of inside information; 
 
(c) “CNE” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Energía
,
the Borrower’s institution 
responsible for the formulation of energy sector policies and for the implementation of the 
national rural electricity program, established pursuant to Law No. 272, published in 
La Gaceta
 
No. 74 on April 23, 1998; 
 
(d) “CONAPAS” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado 
Sanitario
,
the Borrower’s  commission responsible for the formulation of water and sanitation 
sector policies, established pursuant to Decree No. 51-1998, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 138, 
on July 24, 1998; 
 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“ENACAL” means 
Empresa Nicaragüense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
,
the Borrower’s institution responsible for the water supply and sewerage system established 
pursuant to Law No. 276, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 12, on January 20, 1998; 
 
(g) “ENTRESA” 
means 
Empresa Nicaragüense de Transmisión Eléctrica
,
The 
Borrower’s electric transmission company, established pursuant to Decree No. 116-1999, 
published in 
La Gaceta
 
No. 67, on April 13 1999; 
 
(h) “FISE” 
means 
Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia
,
the Borrower’s 
institution responsible for the administration and execution of projects aimed at satisfying  the 
basic needs of vulnerable groups and to increase their productive capacity, established pursuant 
to Decree No. 59-1990, published in 
La Gaceta
 No 240 on December 13, 1990, amended by 
Decree No. 43-1994, published in La Gaceta No. 203 on October 31, 1994 and amended by 
Decree No. 57-1998, published in 
La Gaceta
 203 on September 4, 1998; 
 
(i) “FODIEN” 
means 
Fondo de Desarrollo para la Industria Eléctrica Nacional, 
the Borrower’s fund for rural electrification, established under Law 272 “
Ley de la Industria 
Eléctrica
”, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 74 on April 23, 1998; 
 
(j) “INSS” 
means 
Instituto Nicaragüense de Seguridad Social
,
the Borrower’s 
social security institute, established pursuant to Law No. 93, published in 
La Gaceta
 
No. 46 on 
March 1, 1973; 
 
(k) “Law 
of 
Municipalities” 
means 
Ley de Municipios,
 the Borrower’s  Law 
No. 40  published  in 
La Gaceta
 No. 155 on August 17, 1988, amended by Law No. 261, 
published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 162 on August 26, 1997; 
 
(l) 
“Non-Financial Public Sector” means the Borrower’s institutions comprising 
the central government, INSS, the Municipality of Managua,  ENTRESA and ENACAL; 
 
(m) 
“Participatory Education Regime” means 
Régimen de Educación Participativa
,
the Borrower’s regime providing for the participation of civil society in the education sector, in 
particular that of parents, teachers and students, established pursuant to Law 413, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 56 on March 21, 2002; 
 
(n) 
“Poverty Reduction Expenditures” means 
Gasto para la Reducción de la 
Pobreza
,
the Borrower’s public expenditures of the Non-Financial Public Sector aimed at 
reducing poverty, as defined in Annex VI of the Borrower’s poverty reduction strategy paper 
entitled “A Strengthened Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy,” dated July 2001; 
 
(o) “SECEP” 
means 
Secretaría de Coordinación y Estrategia de la Presidencia
,
the Borrower’s institution responsible for coordinating public policies and strategies necessary 
to design and follow up Nicaragua’s development programs, established pursuant to Decree No. 
118-2001, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 1 and No. 2 on January 2 and 3, 2002 respectively, 
Page  5
-
4
-
amended by Decree No. 64-2002, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 155 on August 19, 2002 and by 
Decree No. 29-2003, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 51 on March 13, 2003; 
 
(p) 
“Second-Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Association 
sends the Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 
2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met;  
 
(q) “SNIP” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de 
Inversión  Pública
,
the Borrower’s 
national system of public investment, administrative unit responsible for coordinating, advising, 
consulting and controlling public investment, established pursuant to Decree 61-2001, 
published in 
La Gaceta
 No.129 on July 9, 2001; 
 
(r) 
“Superintendency of Banks” means 
Superintendencia de Bancos y Otras 
Instituciones Financieras
,
the Borrower’s institution responsible for supervising and regulating 
depository financial institutions, established pursuant to Law No 316, published in 
La Gaceta
 
No. 196 on October 14, 1999; and  
 
(s) 
“Superintendency of Pensions” means 
Superintendencia de Pensiones
,
the 
Borrower’s institution for supervising and regulating AFPs, established pursuant to Law No. 
388, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 85 on May 8, 2001. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 49,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent 
of SDR24,500,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; 
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and  
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall 
not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any 
part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later  
date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing on March 15, 2014, and ending on 
September 15, 2043. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
September 15, 2023 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to acce
ss the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date May 5, 2004 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Costado Norte de la Asamblea Nacional 
 Managua, 
Nicaragua 
 
Facsimile:  
505-2223033  
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By  /s/ Eduardo Montealegre 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Amparo Ballivian 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
WITNESSED BY: 
 
/s/ Enrique Bolaños G. 
President of the Republic of Nicaragua 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  13
-
12
-
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party; 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in  
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. The
 Borrower’s National Assembly has approved a budget for calendar year 
2005 (or latest subsequent budget approved by the National Assembly prior to the Second 
Tranche Release Date) consistent with Poverty Reduction Expenditures of the Non-
Financial Public Sector equal to at least 11.6% of the Borrower’s gross domestic product 
(GDP) (in case of the 2005 budget) or 11.8% of GDP (in case of the 2006 budget), or a 
higher percentage of GDP (in case of post-2006 budgets). 
 
2. 
The Borrower has provided to the Association evidence that  Poverty Reduction 
Expenditures executed during calendar year 2003 (or during the latest subsequent calendar 
year before the Second Tranche Release Date if said Second Tranche Release Date occurs 
after December 31, 2004) represent at least 11% of the Borrower’s gross domestic product 
(GDP) during the same period, or 11.4% of GDP (in case of calendar year 2004), or 11.6% 
of GDP (in case of calendar year 2005), or a higher percentage of GDP (in the case of post-
2005 calendar years).  
 
3. 
To lower the risks and reduce the fiscal impact on the Borrower of pension 
reform: (i) the Borrower’s Presidency has issued decrees reforming its Decrees 57-2000 
and 975 before the AFPs begin operation; (ii) the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks 
and Superintendency of Pensions have agreed on a satisfactory information sharing 
system between them; and (iii) the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks and 
Superintendency of Pensions have established a Chinese-Wall system to prevent the use 
of inside information between AFPs and their parent companies in the banking system.  
 
4. 
The Borrower’s Presidency has issued a decree modifying the regulations of the 
Law of Municipalities to promote fiscal sustainability of the Borrower by balancing, 
within the limitations imposed by law, municipal expenditures with resources transferred 
to municipalities, and the budget (for the year on which compliance with paragraph 1 
above is based) conforms with the approved decree. 
 
5. 
SECEP/SNIP has implemented complementary regulations of  the National 
System of Public Investment, by incorporating all public investment projects and 
programs into an official registry of public investments governed by such regulations, 
including those financed by grants. 
 
6. 
The Borrower’s National Assembly has approved a budget for calendar year 
2005 including funding for the incorporation of 1,180 additional schools into the 
Participatory Education Regime. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
7. 
CONAPAS has approved a national water and sanitation strategy defining , 
inter 
alia
,
ENACAL’ s role in the urban areas, and FISE’ s role in the rural areas.  
 
8.  
The Borrower has provided the Association evidence that it has completed 
demarcation, titling and registration of at least 5 indigenous territories in the Borrower’s 
Bosawas region. 
 
9. 
CNE has restructured FODIEN in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and 
Public Credit through: (i) the necessary modifications of  FODIEN’s legal structure based 
on an evaluation by CNE of such structure; (ii) the entry into effect of rules and 
procedures for selection, implementation and monitoring of subprojects supported by 
FODIEN; (iii) the establishment of funding, financing mechanisms and subsidy 
allocation criteria for subprojects; (iv) the entry into effect of rules and procedures for 
FODIEN’s management; and (v) the adoption of a medium term financing plan of 
FODIEN, consistent with overall fiscal sustainability of the Borrower.  
 
