                                          Documentof
                                     THE WORLD BANK

                               FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                     ReportNo. 27491-NI




                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                            FOR A


                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT


                          INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 49 MILLION


                              (US$70 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                              TO


                             THEREPUBLICOF NICARAGUA


                                            FOR A


                       POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT


                                      December 16, 2003




   CentralAmericaDepartment
   LatinAmericaand the CaribbeanRegion




This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

              ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

B C N        Banco Central de Nicaragua - Nicaraguan Central Bank
CAFTA        Central America Free Trade Agreement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGR          Contraloria General de l a RepGblica - Comptroller's
             General Office
COERCO       Corporacih de Empresas Regionales de l a Construccih    -
             Regional Construction Entreprises Corporation
CONADETI     Comisih Nacional de Tierras
CONAPAS      C o m i s i h Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento    -
             National Water Comission
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSJ          Corte Suprema de Justicia   -Supreme  Court of Justice
DPR          Development Policy Review
E M T A C    Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit
ENACAL       Empresa Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados    -
             National Water and Sewerage Company
FISE         Fondo de Inversidn Social de Emergencia - Emergency
             Social Investment Fund
FITEL        Fondo de l a Inversi6n de las Telecomunicaciones -
             Telecommunications Investment Fund
FODIEN       Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Industria ElCctrica      -
             Development Fundfor the Electricity Industry
FOMAV        Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial - RoadMaintenance Fund
FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSS          Fondo Social Suplementario   -Supplementary  Social Fund
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GON          Government of Nicaragua
GPRP         Government Procurement Reform Program
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIPC         Heavily IndebtedPoor Country Initiative
I D A        InternationalDevelopment Association
I D A        InternationalDevelopment Association
I F C        InternationalFinancial Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
I N A A      Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados  -
             Water and Sewerage Regulatory Institute.
INAFOR       Instituto Nacional Forestal - NationalForestry Institute
INATEC       Instituto Nacional TecnoMgico - National Technology
             Institute
INETER       Instituto     Nicaraguense  de  Estudios  Territoriales -
             Territorial Studies Institute
INIFOM       Instituto Nicaraguense de Foment0 Municipal - Municipal
             Development Institute
JSA          Joint (IMF/WB) Staff Assessment (of the PRSP Progress
             Report)
Kfw          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDG          MillenniumDevelopment Goals
M E C D      Ministerio de Educacidn Cultura y Deportes   -Ministry  of
             Education, Culture and Sports
M H C P      Ministerio de Hacienda y CrCdito PGblico     - Ministry o f
             Finance and Public Credit
M I G A      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                                                FORO F ' F I W USEONLY

        MINSA         Ministerio de Salud -HealthMinistry
         MTEF         MediumTerm Expenditure Framework
         NDP          National Development Plan
         NFPS         Non-Financial Public Sector
         OEP          Oficina de Etica PGblica - Office of Public Ethics
         PA           Poverty Assessment
         PER          Pubic Expenditure Review
         PFM          PublicFinancialManagement
         PLANER       Plan Nacional de Electrificacidn Rural    - National Rural
                      Electrification Plan
         PRGF         Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility
         PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
         PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
         PSIA         Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
         PSMTAC       Public Sector ModernizationTechnical Assistance Credit
         SDR          Special Drawing Rights
         SIGFA        Sistema Integrado de Gestidn Financiera, Administrativa y
                      Auditoria  - Integrated System for Financial Management
                      and Auditing
         SILAIS       Sistema Local de Asistencia Integral de Salud   -Systemof
                      LocalHealth Care Centers
         SINAD        Sistema Nacional de Indicadores de Desarrollo    -National
                      Systemof Development Indicators
         SREC         Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores y Cooperacidn       -
                      Secretary of Foreign Affairs and Aid.
         TELCOR       Instituto Nicaraguense de Telecomercio y Correo         -
                      Nicaraguan Postal Institute
         URETEL       Unidad Residual de Enitel- Enitel's ResidualUnit
         US$          UnitedStates Dollar




                         Country Director :       Jane Armitage
                         Sector Manager:          Jaime Saavedra
                         Task Managers:           Amparo Ballivian




 This document has a restricted distributionandmay beusedby recipients only in
 the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY                             ........................................................................  i

I. INTRODUCTION        .....................................................................................................    1

11. PROGRESSINREDUCINGPOVERTYAND RECENTECONOMIC
    DEVELOPMENTS         ..................................................................................................     3

A.  Progress inPoverty Reduction, MDGs and the PRSP                                                                             3

B.  Economic Development and Structural Reforms                                                                                 6

C.  The Government's Macroeconomic Program and ImplementationProgress                                                          11


111.WORLDBANKASSISTANCE                     ..............................................................................     14

A.  Financial Assistance                                                                                                       14

B. Analytical Underpinnings for the PRSC                                                                                       15

IV. POLICYMEASURES SUPPORTEDBY PRSCI                                           ..............................................  19

A.  The Objectives of PRSCI                                                                                                    19

B.  Basic Premises:Macroeconomic Stability and Protecting Poverty Expenditures                                                 19

C.  BuildingPublic Institutions andGovernance                                                                                  23

D. HumanCapital of the Poor andVulnerable Populations                                                                          30

E. Broad-Based Growth                                                                                                          40


V. THE PROPOSEDOPERATION                        ..........................................................................     50

A.  Conditions for disbursementof PRSC I                                                                                       50

B.  Triggers for PRSC I1                                                                                                       52

C.  Implementation andMonitoring Arrangements                                                                                  53

D. Institutional Capacity                                                                                                      54

E.  Credit Administration                                                                                                      54

F.  Coordination with Other External Partners                               55

G. Benefits andRisks                                                        56


SCHEDULES

Schedule 1: PRSC PRIOR ACTIONS AND CONDITIONS: COMPARISON WITH
            PRSC TRIGGERS AS PER THE PSAC

Schedule 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND
            PROGRESS BENCHMARKS


ANNEXES

Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy

Annex 2:   Nicaragua at a Glance

Annex 3:   Nicaragua - Key Economic Indicators

Annex 4:   Nicaragua - Status of Bank Group's Operations

Annex 5:   Nicaragua - Statement of IFC's Committed and DisbursedPortfolio

Annex 6:   Analysis of Environment and Social Issues

Annex 7:   Bank-Fund Relations Note

                  THE REPUBLICOF NICARAGUA

              POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT

                      CREDITANDPROGRAMSUMMARY


Borrower:       The Republic of Nicaragua

Amount:         SDR 49 million (US$70 million equivalent)

Terms:          Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period

Description:   The proposed Credit of SDR 49 million (US$ 70 million
               equivalent) i s the second policy-based credit and the first Poverty
               Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) aimed at supporting the
               implementation of Nicaragua's poverty reduction strategy. The
               Credit would proceed following the attainment of some basic
               premises    for    policy-based    lending,    including   a    sound
               macroeconomic framework, the Government's commitment to
               poverty reduction as reflected, among other things, in a substantial
               share of public resources devoted to poverty alleviation and the
               adoption of measures to limit the fiscal impact o f reforms which
               have a potential for fiscal destabilization, including pension reform
               and fiscal transfers to municipalities. The series of PRSCs would
               support the following subject areas contained in the four pillars o f
               the PRSP, with PRSC Iemphasizing the first one :

               Building Public Institutions and Governance (Pillar IV), i s a key
               factor in the reduction o f corruption and the achievement of the
               necessary fiduciary safeguards for policy-based lending that would
               allow more poverty reducing assistance. The following key areas
               would be supported by the proposed PRSC: civil service, public
               investment program and medium term expenditure framework,
               public sector financial management, public procurement, civic
               engagement, decentralization and poverty analysis.

               Human capital of the poor and vulnerable population (Pillars I1
               and 111). The PRSC would support the Government's efforts to
               promote better coordination and an effective use of resources, as
               well as a series o f reforms in basic education, health, population,
               social protection and water and sanitation.

               Broad-Based Growth (Pillar I). PRSC would support
                                                      The
               improvements in the investment climate, competition policy,




                                                                                   1

              access to land and credit, agriculture and forestry, and access and
             quality of infrastructure.

Benefits:    The proposed operation would contribute to Nicaragua's poverty
             reduction efforts in a number of fundamental ways. It would: (a)
             increase the accountability, responsiveness and effectiveness of the
              state, (b) directly support the achievement of PRSP social goals
             and MDGs including targets for primary school completion,
             improved child health and nutrition, improved water coverage, and
             improved reproductive and maternal health care for women, (c)
             help to maintain a stable macroeconomic framework, (d) improve
             the country's investment climate, better positioning the country to
             benefit from the Central American Free Trade Agreement
             (CAFTA) and regional economic integration initiatives and (e)
             foster improved donor coordination -a           key ingredient for
             increasing the efficiency of aid-        by fostering sector-wide
             approaches     and   strengthening   the  Government's     fiduciary
             processes as the basis for harmonized assistance from different
             external partners.

Risks        Political divisions between the Executive and the Nicaraguan
             National Assembly constitute the biggest source of risk for the
             PRSC. Throughout 2003, important legislation has been passed
             with the support of the opposition Sandinista Party, largely based
             on the common understanding that the country cannot afford to
             miss the HIPC Completion Point by the end of 2003. By end 2003,
             however, the Liberal Party, originally loyal to the administration
             but later a self-declared opposition party, forged an alliance with
             the Sandinista Party leading to the temporary release from prison
             of the Liberal's leader, former President AlemBn and leaving the
             Executive in a weakened political position. This alliance was
             brokenjust before the present document was being sent to print, as
             the former president was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment.
             These events point to the unpredictability and instability o f the
             relations between the legislative and the executive. Nevertheless,
             all sides agree on the need to comply with all the necessary
             measures to reach the HIPC Completion Point inearly 2004.

             While the National Assembly may become a strong opposition
             force during 2004, the Government still enjoys wide, popular
             support and the continuation o f macroeconomic stability and
             increased growth, supported by the PRSC, should maintain support
             for its reform agenda. Due to the risk that the Government may not
             have the necessary congressional support to pass legislation once
             the Completion Point has been reached, the PRSC has been
             designed as a two tranche operation with the first tranche (pre-


                                                                               ..
                                                                               11

                 HIPC completion) focusing on changes requiring congressional
                 support or approval and the second designed to ensure continued,
                 effective implementation of these reforms in an uncertain political
                 environment.

                 A second source of risks is related to fiscal instability associated
                 with the passage of the Fiscal Transfers Law and with pension
                 reform. The PRSC will address the former by supporting the
                 transfer of expenditure responsibilities to municipal governments,
                 commensurate with income transfers. Actions to avoid a large
                 fiscal impact of pension reform include the adoption of reforms to
                 the regulations establishing the compensation to the. younger
                 generation moving to the new individual capitalization system and
                 parametric reforms to the formula used to calculate benefits under
                 the current system.

                 Remaining weaknesses in the financial sector are being evaluated
                 by ajoint IMF-World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program,
                 which started in late 2003. The implementation of its principal
                 recommendations will be supported by the follow-up PRSC 11or
                 another appropriate operation.


Estimated
Disbursement:    SDR 24.5 million (US$ 35 million equivalent) will be disbursed
                 upon Credit effectiveness. The second tranche o f SDR 24.5 million
                 (US$ 35 million equivalent) will be disbursed upon compliance
                 with the required conditions, which i s estimated to be inthe first
                 quarter of calendar year 2005.

ProjectIDNumber: PO82885




                                                                                    ...
                                                                                    111


                                     I. INTRODUCTION

 1. This program document outlines a proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC)' for the Republic of Nicaragua. The PRSC would become the second operation
in a series of programmatic credits in support of Nicaragua's Poverty Reduction Strateg     Y
Paper (PRSP) that started with a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) ,
approved in March 2003. PRSC Ihas been designed to be disbursed in two tranches
approximately in the first quarters of 2004 and 2005, respectively. A second PRSC i s
foreseen under the high case lending scenario if the corresponding high case triggers are
met. Future support for the PRSP's medium-term program will be considered under the
next CAS for Nicaragua covering FYs 06-09.




                               Pillar 1    Pillar 3   Piiiir 3    Pillard
                               s
                               8E
                               5               3         z         !i
                                                          e,       = E c)




                               *i
                               UP              z
                                               c)
                                               B         -es
                               g2 d
                                              H             v ;    $i A
                                                                      T
                               4p%32S         .-3%       za0 i58l $1
                                              V          .-g       .g0 .g5
                                                                       .-
                                                          3
                               ?3 Z.           9          3
                               z                         Pz
                                                                       L
                               e4




                       I                                                    I
                             ~~         ~



                                            Decentralization

I See Supporting Country Development: World Bank Role and Instruments in Low and Middle-Income
Countries (DCl2000-191, Programmatic and Emergency Adjustment Lending: World Bank Guidelines

* ReportNo.
(R98-249), October 22, 1998and Interim Guidelinesfor Poverty Reduction Support Credits.
           P7563-NI.


                                                                                             1

 3. The rationale for a programmatic approach to assistance to Nicaragua i s presented in
 the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in March 2003. As
 indicated in the CAS, programmatic lending i s seen as an appropriate vehicle for
 supporting the implementation of the PRSP given its potential for enhancing donor
 coordination around key, measurable results, improving the transparent use and impact of
public expenditures and reducing the pressures on scarce national institutional capacity.
The proposed PRSC Ibuilds on the reform agenda laid out under the PSAC which was
 approved by the Board in March, 2003. It has been designed to emphasize public
institutions and governance measures, and increase attention to competitiveness and
growth concerns, while also continuing satisfactory implementation of reforms in the
social sectors, initially supported by the PSAC. Other multilateral and bilateral donors are
also moving to support the Government's agenda through budgetary lending and
program-based lending. A new PRGF program was signed with the IMF in late 2002 and
three successful quarterly reviews have since taken place (Annex 7).

4. Although Nicaragua continues to receive significant amounts of international
assistance from donors, its economic and social indicators are still among the lowest in
the region. For this reason, increasing coordination among donors, on the basis of
Government-led results-oriented programs has become a national priority. The recent
establishment of "mesas sectoriales" to coordinate foreign assistance prepares the way for
the development of sector-wide programming, which will be supported by a series of
PRSCs in three sectors: education, health and agriculture. While these sector-wide
programs will clearly help the Government to maximize resources and achieve greater
impact, some donors have been reluctant to support them through increased policy-based
lending, due to concerns about necessary fiduciary safeguards. These concerns are
gradually being appeased, among other things, by the results of the CFAA and the CPAR,
as well as by the conformity test financed by the European Union in coordination with
the CFAA team. To continue supporting the Government in its shift towards sector wide
programs, PRSC Iwill focus on the establishment of the necessary financial management
and procurement safeguards. In doing so, the PRSC will thus play a key role in
establishing a conductive environment for coordinated approaches to sector programs by
fostering a transparent and efficient use o f the public resources.

5. The medium term reforms proposed for support under the PRSC program are
reflected in the multi-year matrix of policy and institutional reforms for each tranche of
the proposed operation and the following PRSC 11 (Schedule 2). This matrix was
developed after intensive multi-sector consultations within the Nicaraguan Government,
among public officials and the Bank and with other donors. Meetings were also held with
key civil society organizations at different points o f the preparation process, to seek their
feedback. The operation i s being prepared in close cooperation with the greater donor
community operating in Nicaragua and German financial cooperation, through KfW, i s
co-financing the PRSC. The accompanying technical assistance under the Public Sector
Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC), will also receive co-financing
from other donors.



                                                                                            2

   11.      PROGRESSINREDUCINGPOVERTYAND RECENTECONOMIC
                                    DEVELOPMENTS


               A.      ProgressinPovertyReduction,MDGsand the PRSP

6. With a yearly per-capita income of US$ 730, Nicaragua i s one of the poorest
countries o f Latin America. Since the early 1990's, Nicaragua has witnessed a steady
decline in the proportion of people living in poverty and extreme poverty (Table 1).
Furthermore, poverty and extreme poverty in the rural areas, which concentrate the
majority of the poor, have declined faster than inthe urban areas.




              National                          Urban                      Rural

Year   Incidenceb Change    ChangeC Incidenceb Change
                            Annual                      ChangeC Incidenceb Change  ChangeC
                                                                                   Annual

                                           All Poor'
 1993    50.3                          31.9                        76.1
 1998    47.9        -2.4    -1.0      30.5      -1.4     -0.9     68.5     -7.6     -2.1
2001     45.8        -2.1    -1.5      28.7      -1.8     -2.0     64.3     -4.2     -2.1
                                        Extremely Poor
 1993     19.4                ..        7.3                        36.3
 1998     17.3       -2.1    -2.3       7.6      +0.3    +0.8      28.9     -7.4     -4.5
2001      15.1       -2.2    -4.4       6.1      -1.5     -7.1     24.7     -4.2     -5.1




7. There has been some steady progress in achieving some o f the PRSP targets and
MDGgoals, as shown in Table 2. This table also reflects the effects of hurricane Mitch
(which hit Nicaragua in October 1998) on the poor, given the serious deterioration in
1999 o f the few indicators available for this period. Since then, however, there has been
substantial progress, with most of the indicators being either fully or partially on track
with respect to their PRSP targets for 2005. For the longer term, the 2003 Poverty
Assessment for Nicaragua found that the 2015 MDGs that may possibly be achieved are
extreme poverty, under-5 mortality, access to water and access to sanitation. At the
current pace, it i s unlikely that the targets for universal primary enrollment, maternity
mortality and infant mortality will be reached, while access to reproductive health care
services, chronic malnutrition and illiteracy are very unlikely to be achieved. This i s an
indication o f the areas where more emphasis i s needed. Thus the PRSC Iprovides strong
support, in particular, to primary schooling and chronic malnutrition, through the
implementation of the School Autonomy Law and the Social Protection Policy,
respectively.




                                                                                         3

                             Table 2: Progress Towards Meeting PRSP and MDGgoals




                                                                       ..    Done  wayed  No




                                                              ?    ?  99.0   9.0    98.1  Yes  59.0       M N A
                                                              ?    ?  91.0   91.0   92.6  Yes  94.5       MINSA




-&       accgsofuhmams     (i"wby1.7%point@y 2awrUm)          7    9   33.6  34.9   37.0  M y  44.1      ENAW
ILLiteracy(&   illiteracy d oto10%by20E)                     215 188                                      Ism
                                                                       I     185    187   No   16a   10%
Manyears ofschmlmgfor 11319 year olds (mcreaseto5 by2031)    4.5  4.6  ..    4.8    4.9   Yes  5.0        Lshls

(a) tksetar@ arefor 233



       8. The PRSP for Nicaragua was completed in July 2001. It was based on a consultation
      process which involved discussions with groups at the local and national level, including
      local governments, labor unions, the private sector, media and civil society organizations
      such as indigenous people, gender and youth groups, universities and religious groups.
      The PRSP reflects some o f the inputs received through the consultation process and, as a
      result, gives greater emphasis to such fundamental concerns as governance, transparency,
      decentralization and the adequate provision of basic services. The Poverty Reduction



                                                                                                     4

 Strategy of Nicaragua i s focused on four strategic pillars whose contents are summarized
 inBox 1.


                                 Box 1:SummaryofPRSP

 3 Broad-based Economic Growth and Structural Reform (Pillar I): Achieve
 macroeconomic stabilization and economic growth. Growth rate projected to grow at
4.2% on average over 2001-2005. Emphasis on agricultural expansion directed to rural
poverty. Prudent fiscal and monetary policy, privatization of public utilities and
 strengthening o f financial sector.

 *HumanCapitalInvestment(Pillar           11): Improve coverage and quality of services in
education, health, nutrition, population, water and sanitation.

aProtectionofVulnerableGroups(Pillar111):Increaseaccessofvulnerablegroups,
especially women heads of households, to basic social services through financial
incentives, local solidarity and transfer of responsibilities to communal leaders, civil
society organizations and local governments. Protect social programs from natural
disasters, fiscal adjustment and external shocks.

s Good Governanceand InstitutionalDevelopment (Pillar IV): Improve public
financial management, increase access to information, modernize public procurement,
modernize the penal code, judicial process and the CGR as well as regulations and other
public servants so as to make Government more transparent and trustworthy.

     Three cross-cutting themes: Environmental protection, social equity, and
decentralization of decision-making and provision of public services.

9. A first PRSP progress Report and its assessment were discussed by the Board in
November 2002. A second PRSP progress report has been presented by the Government
in November 2003 and is scheduled to be discussed by the Bank's Board in January
2004. This progress report notes actions undertaken during 2003 to implement the PRGF
program presented to the Board of the IMF in December 2002, aimed at improving
macro-economic stability and public sector management while simultaneously achieving
the poverty spending targets agreed in the program. The Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of
the second PRSP progress report notes that the second year of implementation of the
PRSP establishes a satisfactory track-record of commitment to poverty reduction to meet
this condition for reaching the Enhanced HPC Initiative floating completion point. The
JSA conveys that progress has been made in several areas: (i)        significant progress in
poverty reduction, (ii)fiscal discipline to restore macroeconomic stability, (iii)
Government-led efforts to realign donor assistance to support the PRSP, (iv) initiating the
definition of specific actions to implement the first pillar of the strategy for broad-based
growth, (v) elaborating two full PSIAs on the tax reform and the education for all
initiative, both of which entail key Government actions, (vi) initiating solid steps toward
improving accountability and transparency in fiscal and public financial management



                                                                                           5

 systems, and (vii) establishing a satisfactory mechanism to track the use of budgetary
 savings resulting from the interim relief under the HIPC Initiative. Four areas are
 identified in need of further work: (i)          updating the PRSP to strenghten its growth pillar,
 (ii)improving program prioritization, specially in the public investment portfolio, by
consolidating project registries and applying impact and cost-effectiveness criteria, (iii)
 increasing participation in implementation and monitoring of the strategy, in particular
within line ministries and at the local level, and (iv) implementing the national system o f
monitoring indicators.

 10.The Bolaiios administration has recently presented a draft National Development
Plan, Propuesta de Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (PND), to the Consultative Group
meeting. The draft Plan draws on the PRSP and aims at strengthening Pillar Iof the
strategy, emphasizing the need to promote broad-based growth by enhancing the
country's physical infrastructure, improving access to credit and land and providing an
adequate climate for private investment. The PND also provides specific areas for action
under Pillar IV, such as transparency and anti-conuption initiatives, reforms in the
judicial and electoral systems, and strengthening governmental auditing and citizen
participation. The Government has expressed its desire to include these new areas o f
emphasis in a second generation PRSP and has received strong support from the donor
community during the Consultative Group meeting. It i s expected that a revised policy
matrix will be presented as part of the updated PRSP and, in order to harmonize donor
support, this matrix would form the basis of joint assessment for all donors providing
policy-basedlending to Nicaragua.

                   B.        EconomicDevelopment and Structural Reforms

 11.Nicaragua i s a small open economy that exports around 23 percent of its GDP, while
imports constitute about 50 percent o f GDP.3The country's principal exports are coffee,
shrimp and lobsters, beef, and sugar. These four commodities represent between 50 and
60 percent of total merchandise exports, which renders the country very vulnerable to
commodity price shocks and i s one o f the reasons that Nicaragua exhibits the highest
volatility of output growth and consumption growth in Central A m e r i ~ aNevertheless,     . ~
non-traditional and maquila exports are growing. Nicaragua i s currently participating in
negotiations o f a free-trade agreement between the United States and Central American
countries (CAFTA). The successful conclusion o f these negotiations should significantly
improve the country's prospects for attraction of new investment, economic
diversification and further expansion o f trade.

12. The major political, economic, and social upheavals that afflicted Nicaragua in the
late 1970sand 1980s, had left its economy in a destabilized and dysfunctional state. Since

  The GDP figures used in this report refer to Nicaragua's recently revised, 1994-base national income
accounts, which replace the previous 1980-basefigures. The re-based GDP turns out to be almost 70
percent higher than the old figures, which has the consequence that many of the country's macroeconomic
imbalances do not appear quite as extreme as with the old figures. One unexpected finding in the new
national accounts is that the agriculture sector represents a much smaller share o f GDP than before.
  Nicaragua's most important trading partner is the United States (which accounts for 30 percent of its total
trade), followed by the other Central American countries and Europe.


                                                                                                           6

 then, Nicaragua has advanced far in restoring peace and creating a stable, private sector-
 led market economy. Important economic policy reforms carried out in the early 1990s
 included: (i) the implementation of fiscal and monetary policy discipline, (ii) majora
 downsizing of the public sector, and (iii)  significant reductions o f trade barriers and the
 introduction of currency convertibility. These measures succeeded in restoring greater
 macroeconomic stability, creating new business opportunities for the private sector and
 opening up the economy to trade. In particular, hyperinflation was halted in 1991 and
 annual inflation has remained near single-digit levels since then (except in 1998), while
 private investment doubled from 13 percent of GDP in 1994 to 26 percent in 1998, and
 exports increased from 16 to 23 percent of GDP over the same period.

 13. By early 1998, Nicaragua was well on the way to eliminating its fiscal imbalances
 and reducing its dependency on foreign aid. In addition, most of the loss-making public
commercial banks were closed and major steps were underway to restructure the central
Government and public enterprises to render them more efficient and open opportunities
for private sector participation in the provision of public services. These reforms were
being supported with a PRGF program from the IMF and various adjustment credit
operations from the World Bank and IDB. This process suffered a setback in October
 1998, when the damages wrought by hurricane Mitch triggered a massive increase in
government spending, supported by generous flows of additional foreign aid. Nicaragua's
economy bounced back quickly from this catastrophe, with real GDP growth accelerating
to 6 percent in 1999 and 2000. In this context, Nicaragua reached the decision point
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) initiative in late 2000. As the post-
hurricane reconstruction boom came to an end in 2001, however, economic activity
slowed down and the Government was unable to rein in public spending, resulting in
ballooning fiscal deficits and the loss of international reserves. This situation was
aggravated by the global slowdown, external commodity price shocks (especially the
collapse o f coffee prices in 2000), and the failure of several large commercial banks in
2000 and 2001, whose necessary intervention resulted in a significant expansion of the
public domestic debt (see below). Meanwhile, the authorities were reluctant to take
corrective measures partly on account of political concerns linked to the approaching
presidential elections in November 2001, with the result that the 3`d year arrangement
under the PRGF-supported program had to be abandoned by mid-2001 and corruption
increased to unprecedented levels. This situation revealed the serious vulnerabilities o f
the Nicaraguan economy due to the country's concentrated export structure, severe aid
dependence, high indebtedness, weak financial system and unclear fiscal decentralization
strategy and the weakness o f its public institutions.

14.In January 2002, President Bolafios assumed office in the midst of an economic
slowdown. His administration moved quickly to shore up the country's deteriorating
public finances and apply vigorous measures to improve the country's tainted governance
image. These measures enabled the new authorities to establish a positive economic track
record that led to the approval of a new PRGF arrangement with the IMF in December
2002 and laid the ground for a new wave of medium-term reforms. The efforts to
improve governance conduced to serious ruptures within the governing Liberal party,
which undermined the President's political support in the National Assembly and



                                                                                             7

 weakened his capacity to implement reforms. The authorities remained very persistent,
however, pressing forward with their reform program with support of the opposition
 Sandinista party.

 15. On the structural front, the Government made significant advances in 2002 with the
passage of the school autonomy law and the general health law, which create the
framework for modernizing the health and education systems and rendering more
efficient the delivery of social services. Important progress also was made in
strengthening public sector management (especially through the implementation of an
integrated financial management system), creating a poverty spending tracking
mechanism and in combating corr~ption.~               A civil service reform program also has been
underway since 1999, with the aim of creating a more modern, efficient and merit-based
civil service. A civil service law that provides the legal framework for this reform has
been approved in December 2003. Other important governance-improving reforms that
were carried out over the last two years include (i) approval of the law on penal
                                                                   the
procedures and the introduction of training programs to prepare for its implementation,
(ii) implementationofaprogramtoimprovepublicsectorprocurement, and(iii)
     the                                                                                                the
implementation o f a program to strengthen the Comptroller General's office and render it
more efficient. The indigenous lands demarcation law, which had been lingering in the
legislature since 1998 was approved in early 2003, marking an important step in the
improvement of property rights for the poorest. The authorities also made progress in
preparing the divestiture of the remaining shares of the telecommunications company,
ENITEL, which is to be completed by end-2003, and in encouraging greater private
sector participation in the area o f energy generation. Following some initial delays,
progress also has been made in the implementation o f the pension reform program,
designed to introduce a pension system of funded private sector-managed individual
accounts (AFPS).~

16. Nicaragua is heavily dependent on foreign aid, remittances and private capital
inflows. With net official aid inflows representing around 11percent of GDP per annum,
it is one of the most aid dependent countries in the world. This has raised some concerns
that Nicaragua may be suffering from aid-induced Dutch Disease, manifested by an
appreciated real exchange rate and stagnant export growth. Adding fuel to these concerns
i s the rapid increase in private remittances and capital inflows, from negligible amounts
inthe early 1990s to around 20 percent of GDPin 2002. The empirical evidence on real
exchange rates does not suggest that Nicaragua i s currently suffering from Dutch
Disease: its real exchange rate in mid-2003 i s at the same level as it was in the mid-
1990s, a period characterized by rapid export and GDP growth.' However, the 18 percent
real exchange rate appreciation temporarily exhibited during the post-hurricane Mitch


  Reflecting the progress made in these areas, the International Development Association approved a
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit in March 2003.
  A Pension Law, which provides the legal framework for the new system, and a Pension Superintendency
Law, which creates the supervisory authority for pension funds, was passed in 2000. The staffing of the
new supervisory authorities was completed in 2003, with the appointment of a new Superintendent.
7 Moreover, several recent econometric studies have failed to detect any serious problems of persistent real
exchange rate misalignment, which would suggest that the equilibrium real exchange rate is currently more
depreciated that the actual level.


                                                                                                          8

 reconstruction boom in 2000-01, suggests that Nicaragua may be susceptible to aid-
 induced Dutch Disease. This means that the quantity and, especially, the quality of
 foreign aid need to be continuously monitored, in conjunction with the other private
 inflows, to avoid undesirable bouts of real exchange rate appreciation. It i s important to
 recognize in this context that the volume of aid and the intensity of Dutch Disease are not
 bound in a fixed relationship. Rather, through improved aid management and
 coordination,8 the potential Dutch Disease effects associated with any given volume of
 aid can be reduced, so that the competitiveness-enhancing effects of aid (manifested in a
 larger physical and social capital stock) more than outweigh any competitiveness-
 inhibiting effects that emerge from keeping the real exchange rate more appreciated than
it would be otherwise.


 17. Even though Nicaragua's external debt i s now half of what it was in the early 1990s,
it remains one of the most highly indebtedcountries inthe world, with a net present value
o f the external debt accounting for over 550 percent of exports of goods and services.
Nicaragua i s expecting to reach the HIPC completion point in early 2004, which should
yield enough debt relief to reduce the total external public debt ratio to around 150
percent. Nicaragua will continue to be saddled, however, with a significant domestic
debt. The mostly dollar-indexed domestic public debt originated from various sources,
described in Box 2, and i s estimated to have a face value of US$ 1.6 billion, or almost 40
percent o f GDP. Its net present value i s estimated to be close to 28 percent of GDP,
representing a significant fiscal burden.

 18. The banking crisis of 2000 and 2001 contributed significantly to the rise in the public
domestic debt. This crisis was rooted in Nicaragua's relatively young banking system,
which had been nationalized until 1991. B y the mid-l990s, there were 12 private banks
operating alongside three loss-making public banks that were eventually closed or
privatized. The existence of this many banks in a small economy resulted in very high
operating costs. The commercial banking system also suffered from a lack o f experienced
bankers, a weak banking oversight institution that had just come into existence in 1991,
inade uate prudential norms and a faulty legal framework, which was not corrected until
 1999. All these factors rendered the financial system very vulnerable to internal and
external shocks. These shocks eventually materialized in the late 1990s, beginning with
hurricane Mitch and the subsequent collapse o f coffee prices, which left many borrowers
unable to service their bank loans. The slowing down of economic activity and of foreign
capital inflows in 2000 added stress to the banking system, while several instances of
outright fraud had remained undetected by the banking superintendency. All of these
developments came to a head in 2000-01, as four banks (accounting for close to 40
percent of banking sector assets) experienced difficulties in meeting their capital
adequacy ratios and had to be intervened. The assets and liabilities of the intervened

  One area where better aid management could help considerably i s by reducing the fluctuations in the
volume of aid, which also have contributed to economic volatility. During the 199Os, official net aid
inflows averaged the same share of GDP as merchandise exports, but exhibited a higher variability. This
indicates that Nicaragua could significantly reduce its output and consumption volatility in the short and
mediumterm by smoothing out aid flows.
  InAugust 1999,the National Assembly passedlegislation that modernizedthe legal framework for the
commercial banking system, the Central Bank and the Superintendencyof Banks.


                                                                                                        9

banks were absorbed by other commercial banks through public auctions involving the
exchange of dollar-indexed debt of the Central Bank (CENIs) for non-performing
commercial bank assets. This process amounted to giving a full deposit guarantee to
prevent a run on the remaining banks, but at the cost of raising the public domestic debt
by about 12 percent of GDP. Even though the banking system remains very fragile, the
consolidation of banks has eliminated the weakest banks from the system, leaving it
stronger than before.

                               Box 2: PublicInternal Debt

aAt end-2002 Nicaraguahadaccumulated approximately US$ 1.6 billion inpublic
internal debt, representing about 39 percent of GDP. This debt has three main sources:
indemnizations arising from the confiscation o f properties during the Sandinista period
(roughly two thirds o f total), "bank resolution bonds" issued to compensate depositors
duringthe 2000-01 banking crisis andbonds issued for monetary management purposes.

a These debt instruments are all indexed to the US dollar but on varying terms.
Although the stock of the property compensation bonds i s larger (roughly US$ 900
million at end-2002), their interest rates are between 3 and 5 percent and they have 15
year maturities with 10 years grace. This debt starts maturing in 2004 and debt service
becomes significant in 2007. Limited secondary market trading takes place at about 45
percent of face value. Both bank resolution bonds and monetary management bonds
(CENIs) are issued by the Central Bank and have one to three year maturities. Recent
auction rates have been around 6.5 percent, although at the time of the banking closures
rates reached more than 20 percent. The stock o f CENIs stood at about US$ 600 million
at end-2002.

aBeforearecentrestructuringofdomestic debt,aboutUS$1.1billiondebtservicefell
due in 2003 and 2004. The banking sector has a large exposure to this debt, which
constitutes 30 percent of banking system assets or four times the system's capital. The
authorities have recently reached an agreement with a commercial bank which hold
about 80 percent of the bank resolution bonds, refinancing large repayments originally
falling due in September 2003, over 10 years at an annual interest rate o f 8.4 percent.
This renegotiation would reduce debt service obligations by around U S $ 220 million in
2004. Negotiations with two other banks holding bank resolution CENIs are proceeding
along the same lines. The authorities are planning to continue reducing the stock of
domestic debt and have submitted to the National Assembly a Public Indebtness Law,
setting the provisions for limitingdebt exposure o f the public sector, which was recently
approved.



 9. In addition to the existing domestic debt, there are also significant contingent claim:
arising from the pension system and, possibly, from unresolved property claims dating
back to the 1980s. The Government has been gradually implementing a pension reform
with the aim of containing the growth of contingent liabilities resulting from growing
structural imbalances of the current, defined benefit, pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system. The


                                                                                         10

envisaged reform includes parameter changes to the old PAYG system and the transfer of
contributors under the age of 43 to a new system of funded, private sector-managed,
individual accounts. When this reform was initiated, in 1999, its impact on the public
debt was estimated at US$ 400 million, or 10 percent of 2002 GDP, after adjusting for
other programmed compensatory fiscal adjustments. In the process of reviewing the
reform process, however, new data has come in recently which indicates that the fiscal
cost of carrying out the reform as originally envisaged i s considerably higher, due to
delays in the reform process. To ensure fiscal sustainability, the Government will have to
implement much more stringent (and unpopular) parameter reforms for the old PAYG
system (e.g., raising the retirement age and increasing the contribution rate). These
reforms have been outlined in the roadmap prepared and presented by the Government
for PRSC I.

20. Finally, another potential fiscal burden emerged recently with the Fiscal Transfers
Law approved by the National Assembly in July 2003. This law mandates the Central
Government to transfer 4 percent of total fiscal revenues to the 151 municipalities as of
2004, under a specific distribution formula based on equity, efficiency and execution
capacity considerations. Inprevious years, the transfer amounted to less than 2 percent o f
total tax revenues. This law represents a step forward in decentralizing Government, but
also requires complementary actions in terms o f (i)  defining the new responsibilities to
be transferred to the municipalities, in parallel to the increased fiscal transfer, (ii)
introducing safeguards against excessive municipal debt, (iii)    strengthening the project
planning and executing capacities of the weaker municipalities and (iv) ensuring
appropriate accountability and financial management mechanisms in the municipalities.
In the absence of progress on each of these fronts, overall fiscal discipline could be
undermined and major gaps inthe provision of public services could develop.

 C.      The Government's Macroeconomic Programand Implementation Progress

21.The medium-term macroeconomic framework of the IMF-supported program has
been designed in a context of gradually declining aid levels. It envisages a gradual
recovery o f growth toward 4.5 percent in 2007, accompanied by a decline of inflation
toward world inflation rates. The main fiscal targets under the program refer to an
increase in public savings before grants, from -2.8 percent o f GDP in 2001 to +3.8
percent in 2007, as well as to a sharp decline in the overall public sector deficit before
grants from 13.4 percent of GDP in 2001 to 5.4 percent in2007. The overall public sector
primary balance (after grants) exhibits a significant deterioration in 2004, after having
averaged 2 percent of GDP in 2002-03. This deterioration i s explained by the planned
implementation of the pension reform program, which redirects the social security
contributions of workers under 43 years of age from the public sector to privately
managed pension fund administrators. Finally, the current account deficit of the balance
of payments i s programmed to fall from 19.6 percent of GDP in 2002 to 10.7 percent in
2007. This reduction in external savings i s to be accommodated mainly through the
increase of public savings and a modest decline of private investment rates. The monetary
policy envisaged under this program aims to strengthen the reserve position o f the
Central Bank and on reducing the stock of dollar-indexed domestic debt to the levels



                                                                                        11

prevailing in 1998-99, thereby enabling a gradual expansion of commercial bank lending
to the private sector. The exchange rate management continues to adhere to a crawling
peg regime, which has been inplace since 1993.

22. Implementation of the medium-term program began with the reduction of total public
spending (both current and capital) in 2002, first through administrative measures and
subsequently through the modification of the 2002 budget. This resulted in an overall
expenditure cut of 3.7 percent of GDP, part of which was offset by an increase in interest
obligations and Central Bank losses. In implementing these cuts, an effort was made to
protect spending on programs identified as poverty reducing in the PRSP. These
measures were followed by the implementation of a two-stage tax reform, which had the
aim of improving the efficiency and equity of the tax system, and raising more revenues
(Box 3). In addition, the authorities put in place an asset recovery system for the
intervened banks, formally ended the previously practiced regulatory forbearance,
upgraded the banking sector's asset classification and provisioning norms, and ensured
that all banks met capital adequacy requirements. The auction of assets from the failed
banks was completed for the most part inAugust 2003. These actions have addressed the
most immediate vulnerabilities arising from the banking sector. To develop a plan of
future actions needed to strengthen the banking sector, the authorities have asked the
Bank and IMF to prepare a Financial Sector Assessment Paper (FSAP). A mission to
initiate preparationwas carried out inDecember 2003.

23. In mid-2003, the economy i s experiencing a modest recovery. GDP growth i s
expected increase from 1 percent in 2002 to 2.3 percent in 2003 and a projected 3.7
percent in 2005. Private sector credit i s also beginning to pick up gradually, while the
unemployment rate has stopped growing. The export sector continues to stagnate,
however, in spite of a significant improvement in the real exchange rate since the
beginning of the year which may be a reflection o f persistent weaknesses in commodity
prices. The rate of inflation remains stable, near the 6 percent program target. Similarly,
the main fiscal and monetary policy indicators are in line with and in some instances have
surpassed the program targets. These findings have permitted the IMF to successfully
conclude its thirdPRGFreview in October 2003 (Annex 7).

24. The Government's program addresses the key economic problems and is broadly
consistent. However, it i s also fragile and vulnerable to internal and external shocks.
While significant progress has been made in reducing the fiscal and external deficits
during the last two years, further adjustments will be needed to assure the fiscal and
external sustainability of the program in the face of gradually declining aid flows. The
projected decline in the primary public sector balance in 2004 i s a concern, and efforts
are needed to restore the primary fiscal surplus (after grants) o f about 2 percent o f GDP,
achieved in 2000-01, in order to avoid an unsustainable situation." Similarly, the external
deficit target contemplated for the outer years of the program (10.7 percent o f GDP in
2007) points in the right direction, but should be regarded as an intermediate policy
target, rather than a sustainable policy setting.


loThis target level will depend, among other, on the estimated value of the contingent liabilities associated
with the pensionreform, which are still under review.


                                                                                                           12

                                   Box 3: Tax Reforms

   The first stage of the tax reform program, passed inJuly 2002, substantially reduced
import tariff exonerations, limitedVAT exemptions, gradually eliminates preferential
VAT rates, removed ad-hoc tax exemptions for the financial sector, increased
withholding rates on several activities and enlarged the excise tax base on beverages.
This reform was partially offset by the Assembly's decision to increase, from 19to 53,
the list of zero-rated VAT products. A few un-programmed tax reforms, encompassing
higher tax rates on automobiles and cigarettes, and a new tax on commercial banks
(based on deposits), were passed inFebruary 2003 to accommodate a higher spending
level under the finally approved 2003 fiscal budget.

3 The second stage of the tax reform program, passed in April 2003, includes the
elimination o f the VAT zero-rating on all products except for exports while permitting 8
products to have selected VAT-exempt inputs, the introduction of a minimumcorporate
income tax via a 1-percent withholding tax on assets, restricting the use of accelerated
depreciation to exporters, streamlining of VAT exemptions, modification of excise taxes
on luxury goods and taxing financial interest earnings. The combined additional tax yield
of these reforms was estimated to be about 2.4 percent of GDP on an annual basis.



25. The Nicaraguan authorities have requested IDA'S assistance in the form of fast-
disbursing support, to ensure that the implementation of the PRSP can proceed in a
smooth manner. By helping to close the external financing gap, identifiedjointly with the
IMF, IDA would help avoid potential interruptions in poverty-reducing actions that are
currently contemplated in the program, but that may be jeopardized due to funding
shortfalls.




                                                                                       13

                           111.WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE

                                A.    FinancialAssistance

 26. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (Box 4), approved by the Board in March
 2003, allocates US$ 120 million of IDA assistance to Nicaragua over the period FY03-
FY05 inthe base case and an additional US$40million inthe highcase lending scenario.
These initial allocations have recently been increased by around US$45 million over the
FY04-FY05 period, due to the relatively good performance of Nicaragua among IDA
borrowers. The Nicaraguan authorities have requested that US$ 35 million of the
additional IDA allocation be assigned to PRSC I.IDA has agreed to this request,
provided the operation i s designed in two tranches and contains additional policy
measures not originally envisaged under the PSAC. The remaining part of the additional
IDA allocation is being distributed between the PSMTAC (US$ 5 million) and Basic
Education I1project (US$ 4.5 million). All of these products are expected for Board
presentationduringFY04.

I                           Box 4: Mainelementsof the CAS


      1. Increased reliance on programmatic lending. The bulk of IDA assistance
         provided through PSAC and PRSC in order to enhance Government ownership
          and improve donor coordination.
     2. A limited number of additional IDA operations of a technical assistance nature
         to help build capacity to implement specific measures in the PRSP and selected
         small projects to test innovative approaches to poverty reduction for further
         replication.
     3. IDA resource envelope for FY03-FY05 equal to US$ 120 million in the base
         case and additional US$40 million inthe highcase.
     4. IFC and MIGA will emphasize support to PRSP first pillar (growth).
     5. Significant risks includes difficulties in seeing approval of key legislation,
         weak judicial system could undermine private sector confidence, weak
         financial and institutional capacity, fragile banking system and high levels of
         domestic debt and vulnerability to natural disasters and terms of trade shocks.



27. The larger allocation to PRSC Iis in line with the rationale for increased
programmatic lending, as set out inthe CAS. The focus on programmatic lending aims to
support the implementation of the medium-term reform agenda through increased donor
coordination, a focus on results and more coordinated and medium term planning while
ensuring a stable macro economic environment. Should this approach prove successful,
over time it i s expected that both the Bank and other donors would fold a significant
number o f their investment projects into policy-based lending, while maintaining a
limited number of technical assistance projects in order to build capacity and support
policy implementation. The PRSC I(now US$ 70 million in total) i s being prepared in
two tranches to ensure satisfactory implementation o f the reform program in a difficult



                                                                                        14

      political environment. Under the high case lending scenario of the CAS, provided the
      triggers for this high case and the triggers indicated in Schedule 2 of this operation are
      met, PRSC Iwould be followed by PRSC I1(US$25 million).

                           B.      Analytical Underpinnings for the PRSC

      28. In preparation for the PRSC, a number of pieces of analytical and fiduciary work
      have been undertaken. At present the CFAA, the CPAR, PA and the PER have been
     completed. The main findings from this analytical work and their links to the PRSC
     policy matrix are contained inBox 5.


                            Box 5: Prior Analytical and Fiduciary Work
                                                                                          Linkto
                                   Analytical reports                                      Policy
                                                                                          Matrix
                                                                                       (Schedule 2)
Poverty          1. Highfertility rates andunsatisfieddemand for family planning          3.7, 3.8
Assessment           services.
Report No.       2. Education stands out among human capital investments as             3.1, 3.2, 3.3
26128-NI,            critically linked to poverty reduction.
(June 2003)      3. One infive children still remains chronically malnourished.              3.6
                     Diarrhea and upper respiratory infections for children under
                     five show a little progress since early 1990s.
                 4. Key interventions for Nicaragua are increased access to rural         3.9,4.17
                     roads and increased access to safe water and sanitation services.
                 5. Access to timely and targeted social protection interventions can       3.14
                     help protect the critically poor intimes o f crisis.
                 6. The system for provision of financial services needs to be            4.9, 4.10
                     modified significantly to benefit a broader base.
Public           1. Major fiscal adjustment neededto reduce deficit. Inthe short run         1.3
Expenditure         by reducing spending, in the medium term by increasing the tax
Review              base.
Report NO.       2. Improve quality of public spending.                                2.2, 2.3, 2.4,
23095-NI,        3. Reallocation of capital expenditures towards current
December            expenditures on goods and services.                                      2.8
2001             4. Two thirds of the Public Investment project is aid-financed and
                    volatile. Needto develop medium term expenditure framework         2.2, 2.3, 2.4,
                    and improve donor coordination through sector wide approaches.           2.5
                 5. Improve management o f public debt.                                      1.4
                 6. Show the FSS more transparently inthe budget and use the              1.1,2.18
                    Financial Management System (SIGFA) to track inflows and
                    outflows, establish account to carry over debt relief funds




                                                                                             15

                     Box 5: Prior Analytical and Fiduciary Work (continued)
                                                                                         Linkto
                                  Fiduciary reports                                       Policy
                                                                                          Matrix
                                                                                       (Schedule 2)
CFAA             1. Implement a Government Planto guide overall public financial            2.6
June 23,2003        management improvement.
                2. Consolidate and modernize the legal framework for public                 2.7
                    financial management.
                3. Implement comprehensive, well-planned and accountable               2.2, 2.4, 2.5,
                    budgeting.                                                              2.8
                4. Increase institutional and functional coverage of the integrated
                    financial management system and the treasury single account.         2.9, 2.10
                5. Strengthen internal control and internal audit capacity in
                    spending entities.                                                     2.11
                6. Produce meaningful Government financial statements.                     2.12
                7. Produce independent and professional external audits of                 2.11
                    Government accounts.

CPAR            1. Need to insure proper management and coordination of the                2.14
Report No.          Government Procurement Reform Plan, including realistic
25918-NI,           objectives and timeframes, clear roles and responsibilities and
June 112003         proper monitoring.
                2. Legal framework for procurement should increase consistency             2.14
                    with internationalpractice to facilitate use of foreign funds.
                3. Strengthen the General Directorate o f Public Procurement               2.14
                    (DGCE) and limit its responsibilitiesto policy formulation and
                    oversight o f compliance with procurement regulations.
                4. Need to define competencies of the Public Ethics Office (OEP).          2.16
                5. Improve internal control systems for public entities.                   2.14
                6. Establish a cadre of well-trained procurement specialists inthe       2.1,2.14
                    civil service with support from their respective top
                    management.
                7. Need to make available information to the public with regards           2.13
                    to procurement legal requirements, transactions and bid
                    opportunities

     29. Although the fiduciary studies reveal remaining weaknesses, both the CFAA and the
     CPAR indicate that Nicaragua's fiduciary environment i s sufficiently safe to provide
     budgetary assistance. Further, these analyses consider that policy-based lending i s the
     most appropriate vehicle to make improvements in financial management and
     procurement, complemented by technical assistance that both the Bank and the IDB are
     currently providing, as well as by future technical assistance to be provided by the Bank
     under the PSMTAC.



                                                                                            16

 30. In addition to the studies summarized in Box 5, Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
 have recently been completed in two areas: tax reform and education reform. The PSIA
 on tax reform determined the impact to be slightly progressive, both on vertical and
 horizontal equity grounds." The largest redistributive impact of the reform would come
 once the laws are fully implemented, and complemented by progressive public spending.
 Thus, improvements in tax administration to reduce tax evasion and increase revenue
 collection will be key to the distributive gains of the reform. The PSIA work on the EFA-
 FTI indicates the need to consider both supply and demand constraints for the poor to
 take advantage o f this initiative. Although the number of enrolled children with and
 without EFA would be almost the same, efficiency gains (reduced repetition and drop-out
 rates) mean that children in the system would be primary-aged rather than overaged
 children. For the poor to take advantage of this initiative, the high direct costs of
 schooling plus the opportunity cost of labor of working children need to be addressed.
 Almost one-third of rural boys in Nicaragua are engaged in child labor and there i s
 almost a one-to-one correspondence between work and non-attendance to school. A third
 PSIA i s underway focusing on public investment. These studies have been done by
 external consultants under the Government's leadership, with IDA support and technical
 assistance. Furthermore, the PRSC co-financier KfW will study the possibility o f
 financing a PSIA in the water and sanitation sector, and GTZ has started the preparation
 of a PSIA inthe area o f decentralization.

 31.The Bank i s well advanced in the preparation of a Development Policy Review and
its preliminary conclusions are expected b y early 2004. The findings o f the first PRSP
progress report and its JSA, which found that the first (growth) pillar of the PRSP needed
to be strengthened, helped to shape the overall thrust of the DPR which focuses on means
o f accelerating growth in a changing external environment resulting from new trade and
economic agreements. In its draft National Development Plan, the Nicaraguan
Government has also made considerable strides in better defining the main strategic
emphasis needed to achieve more rapid growth.

32. Figure 2 explains the timing of the various analytical and lending steps already
undertaken and/or foreseen in the medium-term, in the delivery of Bank support to the
PRSP.




11 Vertical equity implies that those with greater ability to pay taxes should contribute a larger proportion of
their income or wealth in taxes. Horizontal equity implies those with equal ability to pay taxes should pay
the same proportion in taxes.


                                                                                                            17

              Figure 2: Timetable




1 . . . . .I
                             U




                                     18

                IV.    POLICY MEASURES SUPPORTEDBY PRSCI

                            A.     The Objectivesof PRSCI

33. The PRSC builds on the progress made under the PSAC, which was the first
programmatic credit in support of Nicaragua's PRSP. The PSAC gave emphasis to the
areas o f human development and protection of vulnerable populations, by supporting the
passage of the School Autonomy and General Health Laws, among other measures. The
implementation o f both of these legislations i s now being supported under PRSC I.    In
addition, the PSAC laid the foundations for some of the institutional reforms inthe public
sector that are heavily emphasized by PRSC I.  Examples of this are the Civil Service Law
recently passed, whose presentation to the National Assembly was supported under the
PSAC, as well as the reforms in the pension system, where PSAC supported the
establishment of the Superintendency of Pensions, while the PRSC Isupports the
appointment o f the Superintendent and the partial reduction o f the fiscal impact of the
reform and PRSC 11would support the approval of changes in the legislation, further
containing the fiscal impact of the reform. Similarly, PRSC Ilays the foundations for
some o f the reforms conducing to improved competitiveness and broad-based growth,
which are expected to be emphasized by PRSC 11, following the approval of the second
generation PRSP and upon conclusion of the DPR and the Investment Climate
Assessment.

34. Indialogue with the administration and other stakeholders, the activities presented in
the PSAC matrix have been prioritized and re-organized and now form the basis of PRSC
Iandsubsequentcredits.PRSCIaimstosupportthebasicpremisesofmacroeconomic
stability and poverty expenditure while focusing on a select subset of measures o f the
PRSP, considered priorities to reduce poverty in Nicaragua. PRSC Iand PRSC 11would
include measures in three subject areas, contained in the four Pillars o f the PRSP, with
PRSC Igiving greater emphasis to the first area:


    0     BuildingPublic Institutions and Governance (Pillar IV)
    0     Broad-based Growth and Competitiveness (Pillar I)
    0     Human Capital of the Poor and Vulnerable Populations (Pillars 11and 111)

       B.     BasicPremises: MacroeconomicStability andProtectingPoverty
                                     Expenditures

35. Key Issues. As indicated before the Nicaraguan economy i s still highly vulnerable to
various internal and external shocks. These shocks and, especially, the macroeconomic
crises which accompany them, are most damaging to the poor, thus making the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability a fundamental priority for the Nicaraguan
Government. At the same time, the Government i s firmly committed to protecting
poverty related public expenditures, even in times o f fiscal shocks, to guarantee a
minimumlevel of high quality basic and social services to the poor. The avoidance of
fiscal vulnerabilities arising from pension reform and the recently approved Fiscal


                                                                                       19

 Transfers Law are key to macroeconomic stability in Nicaragua. Protecting poverty
 expenditures, avoiding fiscal vulnerabilities with both pension reform and fiscal
 decentralization and good management of public debt are all considered an integral part
 of macroeconomic stabilization efforts.

 36. To move ahead in the area of pension reform, in early 2003 a new Superintendent of
 Pensions was appointed to oversee the new privately funded pension scheme and ensure
 that these are developed transparently. The next stages to implement pension reform and
their timing are spelled out in a roadmap recently submitted by the authorities in order to
comply with a condition for HIPC Completion Point. As indicated in paragraph 17,
recent revisions of the data regarding contingent liabilities of the pension system indicate
that the fiscal cost of pension reform may be much larger than originally envisaged and
constitute a source of important fiscal vulnerability.

37. In 1995, a partial revision of the 1988 Municipalities Law established that a
percentage of government revenue should be transferred to the municipalities. Transfers
from the center to the municipal level began to materialize in 2000, albeit in an ad-hoc
manner. A new Fiscal Transfers Law was passed b y the National Assembly in July 2003,
mandating that Central Government must transfer at least 4 percent of total tax revenues
to municipalities starting in 2004, raising by a minimum 0.5 percent of tax revenue
provided that GDP grows by 1percent or more in the previous year, up to a minimumof
 10 percent of tax revenue by 2010. The new law establishes criteria for distribution of
transfers among municipalities, using a formula with four components: (i)       fiscal equity,
(ii) efficiency,(iii)
    fiscal                 population and (iv) budgetary execution. However, the law has
not transferred any new functional responsibilities from the center to the municipalities,
thereby creating a potentially large fiscal vulnerability. In this context the Government i s
examining the Municipalities Law and the Law of Competencies of the Executive Power
to identify those responsibilities assigned to both government levels and identify
duplications. The initial analysis has revealed duplications in a large number of areas -
ranging from health services to irrigation schemes-, but where the roles/functions o f each
level are not clearly delineated. While fiscal transfers to the municipal level remained
relatively small this lack of definition did not pose a serious problem. However, as
transfers increase under the new Law there i s an urgent need to clearly separate local and
central accountabilities so as to avoid fiscal derailment.

38. Box 2 summarizes recent developments regarding Nicaragua's internal debt. A World
Bank Treasury mission visited Nicaragua in March 2003 and recommended focusing
attention on improved management of domestic debt. Among other things, the mission
recommended that the National Treasury should issue its own debt on standardized
Central American terms, leaving the Central Bank-issued CENIs for monetary
management purposes. The authorities concurred with this and other recommendations
and requested technical assistance from the World Bank's Treasury Department. This
technical assistance initiated in April 2003 and the next mission i s programmed for
January 2004.




                                                                                           20

 39.Reform Strategy. The authorities intend to pursue the necessary reforms for the
 maintenance of an agreement with the IMF and to maintain or even increase, the relative
 proportion of expenditures assigned to poverty reduction. The rationale for establishing a
 floor for poverty-related expenditures i s provided both by exogenous considerations -
 following the amount of HIPC debt relief to be obtained by Nicaragua after the
 Completion Point-, as well as by endogenous ones, in order to ensure that a minimum
 amount of fiscal effort i s devoted to the country's first socio-economic priority, which i s
poverty alleviation. For the moment, and for the sake of consistency, the authorities are
using the definition of poverty expenditures contained in the PRSP.12 Nevertheless, in
tandem with the process leading to a second generation PRSP, they have recently
established a Public Expenditures Committee, which i s to advise the relevant ministries
on a revised definition and classification of poverty reducing expenditures and have
invited the Bank to join this Committee as technical advisor.

40. Under the PSAC, a new Superintendency of Pensions was established. To move
ahead in the area of pension reform, a new Superintendent of Pensions was appointed in
early 2003 to oversee the new privately funded pension scheme and ensure that it
develops transparently. The next stages to implement pensionreform and their timing are
spelled out in a roadmap recently submitted b y the authorities in order to comply with a
condition for HIPC Completion Point. Since reducing the fiscal risks derived from
pension reform would be key to maintaining macroeconomic stability, the authorities
plan to diminish the fiscal impact in two stages. First, by modifying the regulations that
define the methodology for calculating the amount of the bonds to be given to those
workers who would move to the new individual capitalization system in compensation
for their past contributions and second, after a broad consultation process has taken place,
by introducing changes to the Social Security Law inorder to modify the parameters used
for calculating pension benefits. On another front, the privately funded pension scheme
model that the Government i s following, needs to improve the level o f legal protection
given to officials in the Superintendency o f Pensions to ensure that they can carry out
their duties without political influence. Recent experience with the Superintendent of
Banks, highlighted the importance of having such protection.

41. In order to avoid the potential fiscal threats of the Fiscal Transfers Law, the
authorities intend to modify the regulations o f the Municipal Law. The new regulations
would clearly assign exclusive responsibilities to each level of government, so as to avoid
overlapping responsibilities and hence duplication of costs. As a complementary
measure, the Government introduced provisions to limit municipal indebtedness in a
recently approved Public Debt law.

42. Finally, in the area of internal debt management, the authorities have agreed to set-up
a coordination commission between the National Treasury and the Central Bank to


12 Under this definition, the following expenditures are considered poverty-reducing: capital expenditures
of the program portfolio connected to the four pillars and three cross-cutting themes of the PRSP, current
expenditures related to a subset of activities of the following institutions: Education, Health, Agriculture
and Family (social protection) Ministries, the Rural Development Institute, the Social Action Secretariat,
the social protection network of FISE,INETER,CNE and operational disbursements of INIFOM.


                                                                                                            21

coordinate timing and terms of debt issues to avoid crowding the market and driving up
the cost o f new debt.

43. Expected Results. The above actions are expected to ensure that fiscal discipline i s
maintained as reflected in a decrease of the fiscal deficit from 10.5 percent of GDP in
2002 to 6.3 percent in 2005 and a decrease of total public debt from 206 percent of GDP
in 2002 to 114 percent in 2005. In order to obtain these results, the general budget will
have to compensate for the fiscal impact generated by the Fiscal Transfers Law. Reforms
to the legislation related to the benefits of the pension system are required to reduce the
fiscal impact o f the pension reform considerably. In addition, poverty expenditures are
expected to increase from 10 percent of GDP in 2002 to 11.6 percent in 2005 or, at a
minimum,to be protected inthe event of adverse fiscal shocks.

44. PRSC prior actions. The following reform measures would constitute prior actions
for Boardpresentation:


    0   The National Assembly has approved a budget for 2004 that i s consistent with
        poverty reduction expenditures of the non-financial public sector (NFPS) of at
        least 11.4percent of GDP.
        Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
    0   The National Assembly has appointed a new Superintendent of Pensions. The
        organizational structure and staffing of the Superintendency of Pensions has been
        streamlined, respecting fiscal budget constraints.

45. PRSC conditionsfor second tranche disbursement. The following reform measures
would constitute conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche:


    0   The National Assembly has approved a budget for 2005 that i s consistent with
        poverty reduction expenditures of the NFPS of at least 11.6 percent of GDP.
    0   Execution of poverty reduction expenditures of the NFPS in 2003 represented at
        least 11percent of GDP.

    0   Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
    0   In accordance with the roadmap for pensionreform: (i) Presidency has issued
                                                                 the
        decrees, satisfactory to IDA, reforming decrees 57-2000 and 975, before AFPs
        start to operate, to partially reduce the fiscal impact of the pension reform by,
        inter alia, adjusting the replacement rate o f the compensation bond and the
        number of years for determining the average salary used to calculate pension
        benefits, (ii)the Superintendencies of Banks and Pensions have agreed on a
        satisfactory  information    sharing    system   between them,     and    (iii)the
        Superintendencies of Banks and Pensions have designed a "Chinese Wall" system
        to prevent the use of       inside information between AFPs and their parent
        companies inthe banking system.
    0   A Presidential Decree has been issued modifying the regulations of the Law of
        Municipalities in a fiscally sustainable manner, by balancing, within the
        limitations imposed by law, municipal expenditures with resources transferred to
        municipalities, and the 2005 budget conforms with the approved decree.


                                                                                        22

 46. Triggersfor PRSCZZ. The proposed triggers for the follow-up PRSC are:

     0   Execution of poverty reduction expenditures of the NFPS in 2004 represented at
         least 11.4 percent of GDP.

     0   Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
     0   The National Assembly has approved parametric changes to the social security
         legal framework, satisfactory to IDA, aimed at reducing the long-term fiscal
         deficit arising from the pension reform.

                    C.      BuildingPublicInstitutionsandGovernance

47. Experience in several developing countries has shown that well functioning, efficient
 and effective public institutions and systems are key to the effective use of public
resources and the subsequent achievement of poverty reduction outcomes. Several
 studies, including the PER, the CFAA and the CPAR, as well as the recent conformity
test financed b y the European Community, have identified the strengths and weaknesses
inNicaragua's public sector management. The PRSP and the recent NDPidentify several
corrective actions. Nevertheless, with the intention of focussing efforts on priority areas,
only six o f them will be supported b y the proposed PRSC: i)civil service, ii)public
investment program and Medium Term Expenditure Framework, iii)public sector
financial management, iv) public sector procurement, v) civic engagement and
transparency and (vi) decentralization. The practical application of these reforms will be
piloted ina few sectors, starting with education.

Establishinga Civil Service

48. Key Issues. Nicaragua lacks legislation on civil service and established rules
governing tenure. Public sector hiring and firing procedures are ad-hoc and politicized,
there i s no systematic evaluation of performance, training opportunities are limited, and
there i s no consistent salary structure. As a result, there i s a lack of continuity in the
design o f public policies, inefficiency in public service delivery and project
implementation, serious compensation disparities and little motivation for public sector
employees.

49. Reform Strategy.For several years, the Govenrment hadbeen advocating the passage
o f a Civil Service Law to provide the legal framework for competitive hiring, firing based
on performance evaluation, categorization of public servants, career development
provisions and introduction of a merit-based compensation policy, among other actions.
The draft law was developedwith support from the EMTAC project and its submission to
the National Assembly was one of the policy actions supported by the PSAC. The
passage o f the Law by the National Assembly was a trigger for PRSC Ias well as a
condition for HIPC Completion Point. Since it was recently approved, the authorities will
issue the necessary regulations, most of which have already been prepared and start the
implementation of this Law. However, full implementation of the provisions on
homogenization of the pay scale will not be undertaken until 2005, due to their fiscal



                                                                                         23

 cost. Partial implementation of the salary provisions of the Law would be a trigger for
 PRSC 11.

 50. Expected Results. The implementation of the Civil Service Law i s expected to result
 in a gradual increase in the number of public employees in permanent civil service
careers, reaching between 5,000 and 7,000 by 2005. This work force would, for the most
part, remain stable over changes in administrations, allowing for better trained and more
equitably-paid personnel. As a result, it i s expected to significantly improve the
Government's ability to formulate and implement public policies and provide more
efficient public service delivery to Nicaraguan citizens, especially the poor.

Public InvestmentProgram and Medium Term Expenditure Framework

51. Key Issues. Improving foreign aid coordination and ensuring the fiscal sustainability
of the public investment program i s perhaps the most important challenge in Nicaragua's
development agenda. The country received an average of US$ 415 million per year in
foreign aid during the 1999-2002 period. Public sector investment accounts for 30
percent of expenditures of the consolidated public sector and 80 percent of the public
investment program i s financed by foreign sources. Yet, development indicators do not
show a level of improvement consistent with such large amounts o f foreign assistance.
Aid effectiveness is impaired by a diffusion of competences among various public
entities and the absence of a mechanism to ensure that investment expenditures are
consistent with the overall medium term expenditure framework and sector strategies.
The lack of systematic calculation of recurrent costs implies that many public
investments are not translated into the forseen social outcomes due to a shortage of
operating resources.

52. Reform Strategy. To overcome these weaknesses the Government has decided to
create a single, official registry of public investment, independent o f their source or terms
of financing, b y approving a regulation that makes registration mandatory and the
execution of public investment expenditures unlawful without prior registration. At the
same time, a few basic conditions for registration would be established, such as obtaining
certification from the proper authorities that ensure, inter alia: i)the expenditure i s
consistent with sector strategies and does not duplicate other projects or programs, ii)the
projectlprogram has or will be provided with sufficient counterpart funds assigned in the
national budget, iii)the projectlprogram i s consistent with the macroeconomic framework
supported under the IMF's PRGF,both in terms o f expenditure ceilings and conditions of
indebtedness, and iv) the projectlprogram i s included in the national budget. Inaddition,
each projectlprogram incorporated in the official public investment registry will include a
calculation of the recurrent costs necessary to operate each investment in an efficient
manner and provide the intended impact on the poor.

53. Expected Results. Complete and reliable information on public investment i s
expected to allow better investment planning and initiate sector wide approaches. Such an
approach i s expected to improve aid coordination, thus increasing the impact of foreign
assistance on poverty reduction. The requirement that there i s a prior commitment to



                                                                                            24

 provide counterpart resources before project registration would help to avoid delays in
 implementation, while the requirement to calculate and commit financing for recurrent
 costs ex-ante i s expected to increase the productivity of public investments inthe delivery
 of social services, avoiding situations such as schools without teachers, health posts
 without medicines or rural roads without maintenance. These are essential steps that
 would allow Nicaragua to prepare the 2005 budget within a medium term expenditure
 framework.

Public Sector FinancialManagement

 54. Key Issues.A relatedissue i s the need to improve the impact of public expenditure by
 strenghening public financial management. Under the PSAC, the Government had
 committed to adopt an action plan once the CFAA recommendations were available. In
 June 2003, the World Bank presented to the GON the draft Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) report, which was prepared jointly with the Inter-
American Development Bank. The key issues identified by the CFAA are summarized in
Box 5.

 55. Reform Strategy. The strategy for improving public financial management i s built
 around the following key areas, as recommendedinthe CFAA:

        Creating a consolidated and modern legal framework, by presenting to the
        National Assembly a Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL)13to reform the government
        budget formulation process, introduce a medium term expenditure framework and
        deficit and debt ceilings, and a consolidated Financial Administration Law to
        remove duplications, inconsistencies and gaps incurrent norms and regulations.

         Implementing a comprehensive, well-planned and accountable budgeting,
        including various enhancements to the budget document, e.g. to calculate the
        recurrent cost implications of public investments, increase disclosure of public
        funds, classify capital and recurrent expenditures adequately, and break down
        transfers, institutional and functional classifications.

         Increasing institutional and functional coverage of the integrated financial
        management system (SIGFA) and the Single Treasury Account (CUT), by
        implementaing gradually the treasury, human resources and physical assets
        modules of SIGFA, extending its coverage in public sector institutions, and
        enhancing the system's security, and by the use of the CUT to all externally
        financed projects.

        Preparing and implement a plan for structural enhancement of the internal
        control and internal audit system, by developing efficient ex-ante controls and
        correlated training and technological upgrading, and executing periodical
        Government-led expenditure tracking surveys.


l3The approval of this Law i s a condition for the second disbursement of a recently approved IDB
adjustment operation in the fiscal sector.


                                                                                                   25

         Producing meaningful Government financial statements, complementing the
         budget execution reports with a cash balance reconciliation, historical revenue
         and expenditure trends, level of payment arrears, and presenting it to the same
         detail and coverage as the budget document, all under a plan to gradually
         implement international standards.

        Implementing inter-institutional arrangements to monitor public financial
        management improvements.

 56. Expected Results. Improved financial management practices in Nicaragua would
 allow the authorities to manage public resources more efficiently and have better
expenditure controls. The implementation of the agreed reforms would make public
financial statements more meaningful by expanding the coverage of public sector entities,
and contribute to macroeconomic policy formulation. In addition, these reforms are
intended to increase transparency and public scrutiny, making public resources less
vulnerable to corruption. The implementation of these reforms i s expected to provide
more comfort to other donors to provide assistance through untied programs. Some of
these actions would be extended to the municipal level only once they are consolidated at
the Central Government level and would thus contribute to a more orderly
decentralization process.

Public Sector Procurement

57. Key Issues. The key issues to be addressed regarding public sector procurement are
described in Box 5 which provides an overview o f the CPAR. Although there have been
advances in public sector procurement practices, there i s scope for further improvement.
In 1998-1999 the Government embarked on a profound Procurement Reform Program
(GPRP) which included the approval of a new procurement law (No. 323) and its
corresponding regulations. The new legislation implied an enormous step forward in the
improvement of efficiency and transparency o f government procurement and, in 2002,
the Government started implementing an IDB-financed program to continue the
implementation of the GPRP. Subsequently, the Government and the Bank, in
coordination with the IDB,jointly carried out a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) with the purpose of identifying the remaining issues and required actions to
complement the IDB effort. The CPAR findings have confirmed that there i s a for need
adequate direction, management and coordination of the overall Government
Procurement Reform Program (GPRP), as well as the need to ensure that the GPRP i s
realistic and compatible with the country's implementing and absorptive capacity.

58. Reform Strategy. The Government i s committed to overcoming the challenges
identified in the CPAR, by strengthening the legal framework for public procurement,
clarifying responsibilities of public institutions involved in procurement, introduce
standard bidding documents, develop human resources and improve transparency through
the gradual introduction of internet-based procurement instruments. A detailed action
plan to deal with the identified issues has been proposed, which i s complementary to
those actions beingimplementedunder the IDB funded program.



                                                                                      26

 59. Expected Results. The measures indicated are expected to reduce delays in public
 procurement, while at the same time lowering costs, increasing competition among
providers and increasing transparency inprocurement decisions.

 Civic Engagementand Transparency

 60. Key Issues. In the area of civic engagement and transparency, the relationship
between successive governments and civil society has steadily improved over the last
decade, as civil society has continued to engage more systematically with Government
around the formulation of a number of public policies and strategies. The Poverty
Reduction Strategy was consulted at the central and decentralized level with a broad
range o f stakeholders. The recent National Development Plan i s being consulted and
specific sector plans, such as the Education For All proposal, have also drawn on
feedback from civil society organizations. Yet, there i s scope both for further
improvements and consolidation of advances to-date, by providing legal rights to access
basic public information and establishing institutionalized systems for monitoring and
evaluation.

61.Reform Strategy. The National Development Plan proposes to further institutionalize
the relationship between Government and civil society. For this purpose, the Government
submitted to the National Assembly a Law on Access to Information, which was recently
approved. The Law promotes the participation of civil society in monitoring o f public
policies by providing citizens with transparent information to exercise those rights. The
Government has also decided to institutionalize a system o f monitoring and evaluation of
various indicators, related to the MDGs, the PRSP and the NDP. The indicators used to
assess progress in attaining the overall and specific outcomes of the proposed PRSC will
also be tracked under this system. The system will be managed by the Secretariat of the
Presidency (SECEP) and will use both surveys and administrative data. The
accompanying technical assistance operation PSMTAC will provide financial and
technical assistance for the establishment of the system.

62. Expected Results. Access to information and key indicators, would enhance the
participatory process of public planning and evaluation of government policies, while at
the same time provide government authorities, donors and other stakeholders with
appropriate instruments for self-evaluation of policy actions, specially those related to
poverty reduction.

Decentralization

63. Key Issues. Calls for decentralization date back to the late seventies, but really took
off in 1990, when INIFOM (The Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development) was
created and charged with the development o f technical and administrative capacities at
the municipal level. Shortly thereafter, 143 municipalities were established along with
two autonomous regions along the Atlantic coast, with eight more municipalities
subsequently added. Along with INIFOM, two other institutions -the Fondo de Inversion
Social (FISE) and the Instituto de Desarrollo Rural (IDR)- have been working with



                                                                                         27

municipalities principally to implement externally funded projects at local level but also,
in many instances, providing support for broader planning functions in the face of weak
municipal capacity. To the extent that these latter institutions are major beneficiaries of
donor funds and operate in a semi-autonomous manner, they have well-established
processes, are able to attract well-qualified staff, and consequently are quite effective.
The picture i s further complicated by the existence of donor-funded technical assistance
activities which support municipal development without clear affiliations to any central
institution. As i s to be expected, the existence of several institutions performing very
similar activities leads to undesirable duplication and lack of coherencies.

64. While municipal planning i s generally conducted through a relatively participatory
process, involving planning committees comprised of both Government and civil society
representatives, there i s no consistent, officially-sanctioned methodology for doing this.
Moreover, no provisions exist for the systematic closure of fiscal year municipal
accounts, to allow ex post auditing by Government or private auditors - an important
omission as increased resources are transferred to the local level.

65. Reform Strategy. Along with the implementation of Nicaragua's new Fiscal
Transfers Law, the successful implementation of an equitable                 and effective
decentralization process i s a challenge that could potentially form the crux of the
country's development agenda. Accordingly, the Government has decided to face those
challenges through the issuance of regulations to the Law of Municipalities approving a
methodology for participatory municipal investment planning and implementation
monitoring. In addition, the authorities have decided to start the process of improving the
institutional framework to support municipalities by clearly defining the roles and
responsibilities of the two largest agencies: INIFOM and FISE, as well as their respective
levels o f deconcentration and eventual decentralization. Finally, the Commission on
Transfers has committed to issue clear guidelines as to the methodology to be used to
close the accounts of the previous year's municipal budget.

66. Expected Results. A more clearly defined role of all public institutions involved in
the decentralization agenda i s expected to result in the avoidance of duplication and
better targetting of resources and efforts. A uniform methodology for participatory
planning and monitoring of municipal investments i s expected to increase ownership
among beneficiaries and ease of delivery of technical assistance to municipalities, thus
increasing compliance with the Municipal Law's mandate for participatory planning.
Clear guidelines for the closure of budgets would allow ex-post audits and would also be
helpful in measuring the degree of success of budgetary execution for the purposes of
applying the fiscal transfer formula. Some o f the actions undertaken to improve financial
management and procurement at the Central Government level would extend, once
consolidated at this level, to municipalities, thus improving the framework for improved
public resource allocation to fight poverty and deepening governance throughout the
country.




                                                                                        28

 Poverty Analysis

 67. Key Issues. Once the HIPC Completion Point has been reached, there i s a need to
 continue the annual monitoring of PRSP implementation and to have more frequent
 reports on the use of public resources, especially those devoted to poverty alleviation.
 This i s all the more important under the latest political circumstances. Moreover, there i s
 need to ensure the effective integration of economic and sector work into the
 Government's policies and strategies.

 68.Reform Strategy. The Government will continue producing an annual report on
 progress in implementing the PRSP. Inorder to ensure the ownership of analytical work
 the authorities have committed to preparing annual analysis of public expenditures,
 especially those related to poverty reduction, and include them in the annual PRSP
progress report. Additionally, the Government will submit to IDA quarterly tables
 showing the execution of poverty expenditures. The PRSP progress report will also
include data on progress towards achieving the PRSP/MDG/NDP/PRSC                           targets. To
 analyze the impact of key policies on the poor and use the findings o f such work to
improve public policy, the Government will continue to lead the production of Poverty
and Social Impact Analy~es'~and has agreed to systematically incorporate their findings
into the PRSP revisions.

69.Expected Results. It i s expected that the above actions would allow the donor
community to monitor, in an appropriate and timely way, the execution o f public
expenditures and contribute to ensuring that analytical work influences public policy.

70.PRSC prior actions. The following reform measures would constitute prior actions
for Board presentation in the area of buildinginstitutions and governance:

          The National Assembly has approved a Civil Service Law satisfactory to IDA.
          A Presidential Decree has been issued, satisfactory to IDA, establishing a single,
          unified official registry of public investments, complementing the regulations of
          the National System of Public Investments.
     0    SECEP has initiated the routine calculation of the recurrent cost implications of
          the Public Investment Program, and MHCP has initiated plans to create a Medium
          Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) on this basis.
     0    All internal revenues and expenditures of the Central Government are channeled
          through the CUT. MHCP initiated introduction of externally funded revenues and
          expenditures inthe CUT.

71.PRSC conditionsfor second tranche disbursement. The following reform measures
would constitute conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche:




14Subject areas will be agreed with IDA and KfW and both institutions will provide the needed financing
for this purpose. Upcoming PSIAs with IDA'Ssupport include the Public Investment Programand, with
KfWand GTZ's support,decentralizationandreforms inthe water sector.


                                                                                                      29

     0   SECEP (SNIP) has implemented complementary regulations o f the National
         System of Public       Investment by incorporating         all public    investment
         projects/programs into the official registry of public investments, including those
         financed by grants.

 72. Triggersfor PRSC 11.The proposed triggers for the follow-up PRSC are:

    0    Between 5,000 and 7,000 public employees have been incorporated into the
         administrative career, following transparent procedures established in the Civil
         Service Law.
    0    All donor funds channeled through public sector entities are recordedinthe CUT,
         incoordination with GON signatory agencies and donors.

             D.     HumanCapitalof the Poor andVulnerable Populations

73. Basic human development outcomes have improved considerably over the past
decade following important efforts to strengthen social service delivery. Nicaragua has
made progress regarding primary education, with access to primary education (as defined
by the Net Enrollment Rate) having increased from 76 percent in 1993 to 83 percent in
2001. The health status of the Nicaraguan population, and particularly that of poor
Nicaraguans, has improved significantly over the last ten years. Prenatal care coverage
increased from 70 percent in 1993 to 89 percent in 2001, contributing to the dramatic
reduction in the maternal mortality rate from 250 per 100,000 in 1995 to 150 in 199915.
Infant and child mortality rates have also decreased substantially as shown in table 2.
Progress has also been made in reducing one of Nicaragua's most intractable problems,
chronic child malnutrition. It decreased from 19.7 percent in 1998 to 17.8 percent in
200116.

74. However, Nicaragua still faces tremendous challenges in reaching many of the PRSP
targets and MDGs pertaining to the social sectors. This section o f the PRSC will support
reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness of service delivery in the social sectors in
Nicaragua, while ensuring that the poorest have access to these services and are protected
with effective social safety nets. This section of the PRSC sets out a number of reforms
which aim to ensure that Nicaragua will indeed meet its goals through a series of three
types o f actions to: (i)ensure that a sound institutional framework i s in place in all
sectors, (ii)that the sectors develop the appropriate delivery mechanisms to ensure
responsive and accountable service delivery, and (iii)  that public and private, national and
international resources support this approach in a coordinated and results-based approach.
The following sections outline the most important issues in each sector, the
Government's reform agenda, the expected results and the actions to be supported under
PRSC.




l5MDGdatabase.
l6Data fromLSMS 1998 and 2001.


                                                                                          30

Basic Education

 75. Key Issues. The education sector in Nicaragua faces a number of challenges. Even as
 access to primary schooling has been increasing over the past decade, with net enrollment
 increasing from 75 percent in 1990 to 85 percent in 2002, problems regarding school
 quality have severely limited the contribution of education to economic growth and
poverty reduction. Out of 100 children who enroll in grade 1, 50 will drop out before
completing grade 5, thus adding to the population of those who are functionally illiterate.
Primary school teachers are paid low salaries and are themselves only high school
graduates. The education sector has been completely dependent on external assistance
and since external aid has focused primarily on primary education, pre-school and
secondary education have been thoroughly neglected. At the same time, public
universities continue to benefit from constitutionally protected flows of revenues, with
little accountability for results.

76. The poor performance of the education sector in Nicaragua stems inpart from the low
level of resources available, with the lowest per-student spending of all Central American
countries. However, an equally important constraint has been the lack of strong internal
measures of governance and accountability. The bulk of the education system continues
to be run in a centralized manner, with little participation of parents and of civil society
and thus the demand for quality education has been low. External aid has mostly been
provided through isolated and uncoordinated projects and this seriously undermines
efficiency within the sector. In order for Nicaragua to achieve the MDG goals in
education and poverty reduction and, in order for the education system to generate human
capital for growth, it i s imperative to improve the flow of resources to schools, strengthen
measures of participation and accountability, and institute better coordination of external
aid.

77. Reform Strategy. The Government has embarked on an ambitious policy reform
agenda in the education sector, in partnership with donors. The reform program i s
constructed around three central policy measures. First, at the core of the reform i s a
program of school autonomy that involves the transfer of resources directly to schools,
with responsibility and authority for administrative decisions. The non-discretional flow
of finance to schools ensures the availability of adequate resources for educational
materials at the level of the schools, and community involvement leads to better use of
those resources and ultimately to better performance. The school autonomy program was
supported under the PSAC with the passage of the School Autonomy law and its
implementation will be supported by the series o f PRSC credits. O f the 6,500 schools in
Nicaragua, 3,033 have so far been transferred to become autonomous schools, and an
additional 500 will be incorporated next year. Second, community participation will yield
more effective results if the community gets accurate and objective information about the
quality o f educational services. The Government i s committed to carrying out periodic
student evaluations for all schools, which would be used as inputs to generate `report
cards' for parents to assess the performance of their school. Third, the educational reform
program also seeks to enhance policy planning and implementation to better use scarce
public resources. The education sector will be a pilot sector within the Government's new



                                                                                          31

 public sector modernization program -including multi-year budgeting, investment
 programming, financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation-, to
 ensure that these institutional reforms are translated into improved expenditure
 management practices in the social sectors. This pilot will be supported by the
 accompanying technical assistance credit (PSMTAC).

 78. The Government has recently presentedto the donor community a Memorandum of
 Understanding to promote donor coordination around an ambitious results-oriented sector
 wide approach (SWAP). The results expected from the SWAP were developed with the
 aim of reaching the MDG goal of universal completion of primary education by the year
 2015. Nicaragua forms part of the EFA Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) which seeks to
 provide additional assistance in meeting this MDG. Under the PSAC a strategy for
 improving donor coordination around this EFA-FTIwas introduced and this i s now being
 further developed under the sector wide approach supported by the PRSC. The effort for
improved coordination of donor financing complements the program to enhance
community participation. The Sector Wide Approach (SWAP) for the education sector
would ensure that external resources act in tandem with the Government's own resources
to ensure: (i) a higher level of inputs for schools, to improve school quality through
implementation of a pedagogical reform in support of teachers, and (ii)      strengthened
monitoring and evaluation systems thereby enhancing the accountability for results in
terms of coverage and quality of education.

79.Expected Results. In education, the sector program aims to improve the participation
o f local communities in the administration of education services by engaging parents in
local councils, broadening the coverage of services, improving the quality of services and
strengthening coordination within the sector. It i s expected that 500 schools be added
under the autonomy program in 2004, to be followed by 1,180 schools in 2005.
Evaluation results and technical assistance for these schools would be provided b y the
central ministry and local government representatives acting in a complementary fashion.
Even though these measures would take some time to be reflected in quantitative
indicators of student achievement and literacy rates, close interim monitoring would
contribute towards achievement of the MDG goal of near universal primary completion
and halving of the illiteracy rate by the year 2015. In particular, it i s expected that
primary completion rates will increase to 44 percent by 2005. Promoting transparency
around the results obtained in the education sector will help support this improvement
through the publication of the results from standardized tests. This will serve as an
additional incentive for schools to provide high quality education. Finally, through the
support of the sector wide approach to the education sector, the PRSCs will ensure that
the sector possessesthe necessary resources and mechanisms to carry out these ambitious
reforms.

Health and Population

80. Key Issues. While some progress has been achieved in the health sector, as noted
above, current challenges include increasing the proportion of births delivered in
institutions (currently 50 percent) and the rate of fully immunized children (currently



                                                                                       32

 93.2 percent for BSG and 85.3 percent for polio), and reducing the persistently high
 prevalence of diarrhea and acute respiratory infections among under five children
 (currently 11.2 percent). Moreover, top priority must also be given to continuing the
progress in reducing the still unacceptably high prevalence of child malnutrition and the
 fertility rate, which both continue to be among the highest in the region. As the Poverty
Assessment clearly shows, the main gender concern in Nicaragua relates to reducing
 maternal mortality either through increasing the number of institutional births as well as
the spacing o f pregnancies, and by providing access to family planning, as the high
fertility rates in Nicaragua are strongly correlated with poverty and its intergenerational
transmission.

81. There are many obstacles in the sector which lie in the way of the achievement of the
MDGs and PRSP goals. These include: (i)MINSA's traditional, inflexible, over-
centralized management structure which discourages modifying services delivery to
better meet local needs and improve efficiency, (ii)   the traditional health care model that
i s predicated on the treatment of sick persons, to the neglect of a population-based model,
that i s both fragmented and inefficient, and (iii)  the absence of a population policy. In
addition, public health care financing is, and will continue throughout the foreseeable
future, to be severely constrained, suggesting that the sector needs to strive to address
these challenges by continuing to implement structural reforms and thereby improve
MINSA's efficiency.

82. Reform Strategy. The Government's reform strategy consists fundamentally of a two-
pronged approach and i s based on the implementation of the General Health Law,
approved with the support of the PSAC. The first prong consists o f the introduction of a
new health care model which will emphasize prevention and promotion in combating
communicable diseases, malnutrition and other avoidable health problems, and i s focused
on improving health status at the household level. This represents a break with the
traditional curative care model. The second prong consists of improving the efficiency of
MINSA by: (a) re- structuring MINSA and reorganizing its principal activities-
primarily through decentralization and the rationalization of primary health care, and (b)
introducing new incentives and management techniques, including performance-based,
resource allocation methods.

83. The General Health Law, a reform supported under the PSAC, includes a number of
advances. It clearly defines and demarcates the Ministry's role and responsibilities, and
lays out the key components of its structural reform agenda, includes mechanisms for
social participation, establishes the national health plan as the principal planning
instrument to guide all health programs and resource allocation, recognizes the SILAIS as
decentralized structures for the management of public services, and establishes standards
and mechanisms for quality assurance and public health interventions. The health
component of the National Development Plan (NDP) i s consistent with and supportive of
the current health plan. It calls for continuing the various initiatives related to
operationalizing the General Health Law, emphasizing measures that will strengthen
MINSA's stewardship role. In addition, the Plan emphasizes the imperative to improve
MINSA's efficiency-foremost       through decentralization, but also by introducing new



                                                                                          33

 methods of performance-based, resource allocation and the introduction of a new model
 of health care centered on prevention.

 84. The PRSP recognized the need to reduce fertility and to improve reproductive health.
 Some years ago, the GON adopted a population policy that was developed by the
 Ministry of Social Affairs. Since then, that Ministry has been dissolved, and as a result,
 implementation of the population action plan has stalled. In addition, family planning
 interventions in Nicaragua have encountered strong opposition from several powerful
  stakeholder^'^. Reproductive health programs have been maintained, however, by the
 MINSA with strong support from international donors. The Government now proposes
 to: (i) implement a comprehensive and multisector population policy, and (ii)                     increase
 access to quality reproductive health services. This multisectoral policy would include
 educational, health and gender aspects and support activities such as educational
 campaigns around reproductive rights, information on different reproductive choices and
 public services, the mainstreaming of reproductive services into the public health system
 and monitoring mechanisms to track the impact of the new policy on men and women's
 access to reproductive health services.

 85. Expected Results.Under the PRSP, Nicaraguaestablishes a number of actions to help
 it achieve the MDGs and other goals. The most recent Poverty Assessment notes that
 Nicaragua's prognosis for reaching many of the health goals i s not good. The Second
 PRSP Progress Report, however, suggests that the performance o f the health sector i s
 improving, at least as measured b y some intermediate indicators.

 86. The Government believes it can further improve on this apparently positive, new
 trend by addressing a number of institutional reforms that ensure that the sector can offer
 services based on incentives for good performance and defined access and quality
 standards. These reforms will entail clarification of roles and responsibilities within the
 sector, some decentralization of service delivery, modernization of hospital management,
and the development of a national health plan which donors can support in a coordinated
fashion. B y laying the institutional basis for responsive and effective service delivery, the
Government i s proposing to achieve the following intermediate results:                 '*

87. In population, the reforms proposed will increase the demand for family planning
services from 19.8 percent in 2002 to 24.8 percent in 2005. As noted above, this result i s
key in addressing the gender concerns around maternal mortality in the poverty
assessment.



l7 A recent education campaign on sexual education issuesfor the youth encountered strong opposition by
the church and other societal groups and was cancelled.
'*Such  indicators are only available from population-based surveys, like the Demographic and Health
Surveys (DHS) and the Living Standards Measurement Surveys (LSMS).Both DHS and LSMS surveys
were just conducted in 2001 and are not scheduled to be conducted again until 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Thus for monitoring PRSC progress for the years prior to when the data from these surveys will next be
available, it is necessaryto identify intermediate indicators that are related to the MDGhealth outcome
indicators. Proratingthose identified in the National Development Plan, provides the goals outlined in
Table 3.


                                                                                                        34

                                      Table 3: HealthSector Results

               Maternal mortality                 Infant mortality reduction                 Child mortality
               reduction                                                                     reduction
          The coverage of institutional      Immunizationcoverage of children less      Reductioninthe
          births increases from 49.9%        than one with the first dose of BCG        proportionof deaths
          in2002to 61.7% in2005.             increasesfrom 93.2% in2002 to 99.0%        of children less than 5
                                             in2005.                                    due to diarrheafrom
          The coverage of prenatal                                                      7.9% in2002 to 7.6%
          care increasesfrom 70.5% in        Immunizationcoverage of children less      in2005.
          2002 to 82.4% in2005.              than one with the thirddose of the polio   Reductioninthe
                                             vaccine increases from 85.3% in2002        proportion of deaths
          The coverage of early              to 94.5% in 2005.                          of children less than 5
          capture (first trimester) of                                                  due to acute
          pregnant women increases           Immunizationcoverage of children less      respiratory illness
          from 35.0% in 2002 to              than one with the thirddose of the         from 11.2% in2002 to
          41.3% in 2005.                     pentalvent (5-in-1) vaccine increases      9.7% in2004.
                                             from 84.7% in 2002 to 91.0% in2005.




 Water and Sanitation

88. Key Issues. Challenges in the water supply and sanitation sector relate to coverage,
quality and financial sustainability. Low coverage and poor quality of water supply and
sanitation services impact severely on the health status of the population, particularly
children (infant mortality in 2000 was approximately 40 per thousand live births).
According to the National Development Plan (2003), potable water coverage in
Nicaragua in 2003 i s estimated at 90 percent for urban areas, and approximately 51
percent for rural areas (72.8 percent for the entire country). When compared to other
countries in the region and Latin America as a whole, this i s considered relatively low. In
the case of Managua, registered coverage of potable water i s estimated at about 97
percent of the city's population, although a significant portion of those consumers
experience irregular service. Quality o f services i s affected by the age of installations and
equipment, poor maintenance and insufficient investment levels. Sanitation coverage i s
also below Central American standards: sewage systems only exist in the main cities and
cover about 33 percent of the urban population. Sanitation coverage of all kinds,
including pit latrines and sinks, i s estimated at about 63 percent for urban and 76 percent
for rural areas. Although water tariffs in urban areas were raised by 7 percent in June
2003 and are relatively high by Latin American standards (approx. US$ 0.4/m3 for
consumption between 21 and 50 m3/month)," they still are not high enough to cover
long-run marginal costs due to the inefficiencies in the water utility company.20 Thus,
financial sustainability remains a major challenge in the sector. In addition to the
operational inefficiencies o f the water utility company, unclear roles and responsibilities


l9In Managua, for a household consuming 30m3/month the average bill for water and sewage services
including a fixed rate will be about US$ 15/month, much higher than charged in the San Pedro Sula
Concession in Honduras with about US$ 0.10            /m3.  Even subsidized users consuming between 0-
20mVmonth are charged US$0.14/m3, whereas the highest tariff rate for large industrial consumers almost
amounts to US$l.00/m3, providing an inventive for them to develop their own wells.
2o Diagnostic of the Situation in the Potable Water and Sanitation Sector, draft, Nicaragua,  22/08/02 (ESA
Consultores).


                                                                                                            35

of the different institutional actors (central/decentralised, publidprivate) with regard to
the ownership and operations of systems and the lack of a coherent financing policy
hamper the necessary development of the sector.

89. Though some progress has been made in these areas, supported by IADB's and
KfW's involvement through investment projects and technical assistance, further
progress depends on important policy decisions being made, on the basis of a
comprehensive and coherent sector strategy. The Government i s constrained by the
present legal framework and faces important political limitations in changing it in the
National Assembly. Sector legislation has been particularly difficult to pass and the "Ley
de Suspension de Concesiones de Us0 de Agua" (Ley 440) prohibits private sector
participation contracts in the water sector. This i s producing delays and confusion related
to already agreed upon key pilot projects involving private sector participation while at
the same time worsening the perspectives for increased efficiency through private sector
participation in the future. However, before the National Assembly broke for the
December 2003 holiday period, a new law was being discussed which would provide a
legal framework for some private participation in this sector. While this i s a positive sign,
public opinion i s still adverse to private sector participation, since it i s broadly critical of
recent privatization processes, especially that o f the electricity sector. Therefore, the
sector strategy must take into account the institutional and regulatory framework and
needs to be preceded by consultations with stakeholders and a communications campaign
disseminating to the public the PSIA's results, which i s expected to expose the inequities
o f the current tariff system.

90.Reform Strategy. The PRSP clearly identifies water and sanitation as one of the
priority areas for reform. The Government recognizes that if Nicaragua i s to reach the
MDGs inwater and sanitation, investment in the development of new infrastructure and
rehabilitation o f old systems i s insufficient. Major reforms to improve the efficiency and
the management of systems in both urban and rural areas will be needed. The
Government's approach i s as follows: First, it proposes to introduce a new legal
framework for the water sector (Ley de Agua) which - inter alia- would allow in general
terms for the signing of specific management contracts for water and sanitation services,
already agreed upon between the Government and KfW. This would pave the way for the
implementation of two pilot management contracts for the private operation of the water
and sanitation services in two municipalities (Matagalpa and Jinotega). By moving
forward with these pilots, service delivery and efficiency improvements will be made,
resulting in better services and lower costs. In doing so, it i s hoped that resistance to
private sector participation might be reduced and new initiatives in public-private
partnerships might be undertaken, allowing Nicaragua to address the severe problems in
this sector. At the same time, the Government is proposing to revise ENACAL's Law so
as to allow it to collect delinquent accounts, including through legal means.

91. Second, the Government plans to adopt, in consultation with ENACAL, FISE and
INAA, a National Water and Sanitation Strategy, which will include: (i) overall       an
objective related to poverty, health, environment and other MDG-related targets, (ii)           a
clear definition of roles and responsibilities of the different public agencies, including the



                                                                                               36

 establishment of an independent regulatory body, (iii)a clear policy towards private
 sector and community participation in the sector, (iv) an investment plan, both public and
 private, aimed at increasing coverage in line with the MDGs, (v) a coherent financing
 policy and a corresponding revision of the tariff and tariff collection regime and of
 subsidiesto the poor, (vi) a modernizationplan for ENACAL, and (vii) a monitoring and
 evaluation plan. In addition, the Government will nominate an official interlocutor for the
 sector with the donor community. One option for this would be to strengthen CONAPAS
 which could play an important role in policy formulation and sector planning. This
 Strategy i s paramount to further development of the sector. Additionally and as part of
 this national water and sanitation strategy, the Government proposes to prepare a
 modernization plan for the national water utility ENACAL, addressing institutional,
 operational and management issues with a view to reducing unaccounted-for water (both
commercial and physical losses), reducing labor and electricity costs, and improving
billing and collection. Improvements in the sector information system, especially in
relation to the urban sector, will help with this. Until private participation issues are
addressed b y an enabling legal framework, reforming ENACAL i s the only option for
improving service delivery in this sector and it i s thus imperative that reforms to this
public utility are far reaching and meaningful. FISE has recently been nominated as the
government institution in charge of the rural water and sanitation sector. It will now have
to undertake an institutional restructuring program to allow it to implement its new role.

92. Expected Results. The move towards private-public partnerships in the water and
sanitation sector would play an important role in helping Nicaragua to achieve the
MDGs, since improvements in efficiency will have a positive fiscal impact and
government resources that today are used for subsidizing inefficiencies, could be used for
investments to increase coverage and quality levels. The water management contracts in
the two pilot municipalities will lead to an increased operational efficiency of water
provision inthese municipalities as measured b y a decrease in unaccounted-for water and
an increase in the collection rate. The target indicators will be spelled out in the
management contracts. It i s hoped that the results achieved under these management
contracts will also serve as an example of the potential of public-private partnerships as
an instrument for improving performance within the sector and thus may provide the way
forward for increased efficiency inthe sector inthe future.

93. The National Water and Sanitation Strategy and its action plan will address the
existing bottlenecks of the sector. It i s therefore paramount to an increase in the coverage
o f water and sanitation services in Nicaragua and the attainment o f the MDGs. The exact
target coverage will be established by the strategy and should lead to the goals set out in
the National Development Plan which are: increase in national coverage of potable water
services from 72.8 percent in 2002 to 76 percent in 2005, increase in water services for
rural dispersed areas from 49.8 percent in 2002 to 54 percent in 2005 and increase in
urban population with access to sewage from 32.7 percent in2002 to 45 percent in 2005.

94. The elaboration and implementation of the modernization plan for ENACAL will
lead to an improved efficiency o f its operations: the target values o f efficiency indictors
o f ENACAL will be defined in the modernization plan. The efficiency indicators that



                                                                                           37

 form part o f the plan should include, among others: (i)            domestic metering coverage
 index, (ii)collection efficiency, (iii)  working ratio, (iv) productivity measured as number
 o f employees per 1000water connections, and (v) unaccounted for water index.

 95. Finally, a sector PSIA and other studies will help the regulatory agency INAA to
 understand how best to improve the financial sustainability of the sector.

Social Protection

 96. Key Issues. In addition to the adequate provision of quality education, health and
 water and sanitation services, it i s indispensable to strengthen the social safety net to
 allow the most vulnerable to: (a) have equal access to the existing services and adequate
opportunity to build their human capital in order to participate fully in the country's
development, and (b) be protected from adverse effects of natural or economic shocks.
Key risks in Nicaragua include chronic malnutrition, particularly for children ages 0-5,
school drop out and child labor, youth unemployment, and domestic violence. In
addition, families in extreme poverty are particularly vulnerable to the impact of natural
or economic shocks.

97. A review21of Nicaragua's social protection system reveals serious limitations in its
ability to provide an effective safety net for these vulnerable population groups, and
points to institutional weaknesses as an underlying cause. The country's many programs
and projects lack a clear policy and orientation. Weaknesses frequently detected in the
interventions include poor targeting towards priority groups, low coverage (particularly
inremote rural areas), some duplication and little coordination among programs, unclear
definition of responsibilities for relevant ministries and agencies, and lack of information
about the administrative efficiency and impact of specific programs.

98. In addition, the country i s not sufficiently prepared to provide safety nets to those
affected by crisis and shocks. Nicaragua has been vulnerable to a range of natural and
economic shocks, including hurricanes (e.g., Mitch) and droughts, and large swings in
prices o f key commodities, most notably coffee. If adequate safety net programs do not
exist, then shocks can have undesirable impacts on the poor. One recent example of this
comes from the coffee crisis. An ongoing World Bank study o f the coffee crisis shows
that small, self-employed coffee farmers were hard hit by the recent steep decline in
world coffee prices. The incomes of this group declined dramatically between 1998 and
2001, and the incidence of poverty among small coffee farmers rose despite general
improvements in living standards among Nicaragua's rural population over the same
period. The analysis further indicates that the coffee crisis was accompanied by declines
in primary enrollments and increases in child labor among children of small, self-
employed coffee farmers. While the Government o f Nicaragua initiated several
interventions to address the coffee crisis, efforts appear to have been relatively small in
scope, and only partially effective in addressing the negative impacts o f the coffee shock.


*'Gillespie,Nancy et al: "A Review of Selected Poverty Programs in Nicaragua's PRSC Portfolio", May
2001.


                                                                                                  38

99.Reform Strategy. In light of these challenges, the Government has initiated and i s
committed to continuing social sector reforms both by modifying the traditional models
of service delivery to include a greater role for, and focus on, households and
communities, and by strengthening and restructuring the respective institutions. Several
programs (RPS, PAININ, AIN, PMA, etc.) are in place addressing the issue and the
Government i s committed to ensuring their articulation, coherence and expansion.

 100. In the PRSP, the Government defined social protection of the poorest and most
vulnerable as a priority. Since social protection i s cross-cutting, it contributes to
achieving the results mentioned in other sectors whether it be reducing extreme poverty,
ensuring education for all, or reducing child mortality. A good example of this supportive
function of social protection interventions i s the "Red de Protecci6n Social (RPS)"
program which provides cash transfers to families in extreme poverty, conditioned on
their children's regular health clinic visits (children 0-5) and school attendance (1-4th
grade). A recent impact evaluation of the program showed a massive average net increase
in school enrollment (17.7 percent) and attendance (23 percent), intandem with a decline
o f the children 7-13 years o f age working by 5 percent. Vaccination rates of beneficiaries
climbed over 30 percent and stunting in children declined by 5 percent. In light of these
results of the pilot phase, the program i s now being expanded to more families, and
closely coordinated with and complemented by other programs. An ongoing World Bank-
sponsored study also indicates that the "Red" was successful in mitigating some of the
worst effects of the coffee crisis on the poor, even though the program was not set up
specifically to do so. This suggests that there may be scope for using similar approaches
to address shocks, in addition to longer-term social assistance needs.

101. Under the PSAC, the Government presented a draft conceptual framework for the
design o f a social protection policy. The Government has recently approved a Social
Protection Policy (Solidaridad) which defines strategic priorities for developing an
effective safety net for the poorest and most vulnerable. It establishes the institutional
roles and responsibilities o f main social ministries and agencies, and determines
coordination mechanisms so that programs and projects can be articulated and aligned
with priorities and policies. In order to implement the social protection policy, the
Government has taken some key actions, including: (i)    the assignment of the Ministry of
the Family (MiFamilia) as the responsible government agency for the overall
coordination, (ii) the development of a national beneficiary registry for social programs
(which already includes more than 100,000 beneficiaries from approximately 20
programs and projects), and (iii) establishment o f a monitoring and evaluation system
                                  the
for the social programs.

102. In order to implement the Social Protection Policy, the Ministry o f the Family, in
close coordination with the Social Cabinet, has identified the following three prior areas
where the Government will concentrate its efforts during the next years to reach
measurable results:


     0  Improve the nutritional status and educational attainment of poor and vulnerable
        children 0-5 years of age



                                                                                         39

         Invest in youth through expenditures in education, health, citizenship and life
         skills, as well as by offering particularly disadvantaged young people skills and
         knowledge for youth to improve their access to employment opportunities as a
         way of preventing them from engaging inunproductive or violent behavior.
        Develop flexible mechanisms to deal with temporary crisis like the recent coffee
        crisis. Looking forward, safety net mechanisms will be designed and tested in
         order to prepare and confront events such as greater trade liberalization in
         sensitive commodities that may eventually affect adversely some segments of the
        rural population, vulnerable to price declines.

 103. As a first step in implementing the social protection policy, the Government will
define for these priority areas the respective institutional responsibilities. In addition, it
will define the process for building the necessary consensus about effective
implementation.

 104. Expected Results. The new Social Protection Policy specifically intends to address
the still substantial problem of chronic child malnutrition in Nicaragua, in line with the
outcomes o f the 2002 Poverty Assessment. As a result of this effort, chronic malnutrition
for children 0-5 i s expected to fall from 17.8 percent in 2001 to 16.0 percent in 2004.
Investing in youth will improve their employability, thus having an effect on violence
prevention. Innovative mechanisms to address the negative impacts of crisis and shocks
duringthe transition phase are expected to prevent the decline inprimaryenrollment and
the spread of child labor among affected families.

105. PRSC prior actions. The following reform measures would constitute prior actions
for Board presentation:


    0   Sufficient financing for the incorporation of 500 additional schools into the
        Participatory Education Regime in 2004 has been guaranteed.
        The Social Cabinet has approved a Social Protection Policy (Solidaridad),
        satisfactory to IDA, including a plan of action for strategic areas.

106. PRSC conditions for second tranche disbursement. The following reform
measures would constitute conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche:


    0   The National Assembly has approved a 2005 budget that allows for the
        incorporation o f 1,180 additional schools into the Participatory Education
        Regime.
    0   CONAPAS has approved a National Water and Sanitation Strategy, acceptable to
        IDA and KfW, which defines, among other things, the role of ENACAL in the
        urban area and of FISEinthe rural area.

                               E.      Broad-BasedGrowth

107. Nicaragua has seen very little growth over the last three years due to the global
recession, low coffee prices and the return to normal aid levels after the post-Mitch


                                                                                           40

boom. While the economy appears to be slowly coming out of recession, ensuring
sustained growth will require a number of critical actions. One key prerequisite is a
continuation of the sound macro management implemented over the last two years. As
explained in section 1I.B and C, macro stability was a critical underlying factor behind
the positive growth and poverty performance of the 1990s. In addition, recent Bank
analytical work has indicated that faster growth in Nicaragua requires further advances in
the development of human capital, infrastructure, financial services, and governance
(including enforcement of property rights). Actions related to improving human capital
were already covered in section III.D,while aspects related to governance were treated in
section 1II.C. Recent measures to strengthen and develop the financial sector were
outlined in section 1I.B.

108. This section of the PRSC will support some initial measures related to some of the
missingfronts, including access to infrastructure and credit and strengthening of property
rights (particularly in land), with a strong emphasis on actions that ensure that poor and
disadvantaged groups share in the benefits of growth. It also supports some critical cross-
cutting themes that address microeconomic barriers to growth and reduce administrative
barriers to doing business that should benefit all segments o f Nicaragua society. Specific
measures to benefit rural areas are included since nearly 70 percent of the poor live there.
The measures supported are also an important part of the Bank's wider effort to ensure
that Nicaragua will be in a position to take advantage of CAFTA when it becomes a
reality and that its benefits spill over the poor. This section o f the PRSC will address
needed improvement in four key areas: (1) supportive climate for investment through
greater competition and consumer protection policies, (2) access to land and credit, (3)
improvements in productivity in agriculture and forestry, and (4) access to infrastructure
services. Once the second generation PRSP i s finalized, the Bank would be in a better
position to support pro-growth policies through PRSC 11.

SupportiveEnvironmentfor Investmentand Growth.

109. Key Issues. There are a number of issues concerning the investment climate that the
Government i s in the process o f evaluating. The Bank, as proposed under the PSAC, i s
also carrying out an investment climate assessment due to conclude early in 2004 (the
rural component will be finished later in the year). Other areas o f reform will need to be
agreed once the discussion about the investment climate assessment has been completed
and a reform agenda agreed. This will almost certainly include the necessary reforms to
reduce the time and costs for starting up a business in Nicaragua. At this point there i s
agreement on two areas for emphasis, training and competition policies. However, others
will be assessed and agreed inthe course of the next year and then incorporated in a letter
of intent with the specific measures.

110. Policies to increase competition and protect consumers and enforcement of those
policies are an important element o f the agenda for growth in Nicaragua. In a small open
economy, the best policy to spur competition i s to enhance openness by lowering trade
barriers and the associated transactions costs. With increasing trade, previously small
markets susceptible to collusion or abuse of market power become more open to



                                                                                         41

competitive pressures. Nevertheless, some markets for goods and services exhibit
inherently large costs of undertaking cross-border trade or are subject to low degrees of
competition while greater trade develops. For the specific case of Nicaragua, there i s
some evidence that markets for basic goods and services that are part of the consumption
basket of the poor are affected b y non-competitive behavior. To break up collusion and
spur competition, a government agency in charge of investigation and enforcement of
minimumcompetition standards andconsumer protectionrights is needed.

111. Technical training inNicaragua is dominated by INATEC, a public institute funded
by a 2 percent payroll levy. INATEC directly provides pre-employment training (to
students or unemployed) and in-firmtraining programs, mainly through a list of qualified
training firms. The private sector has a very low opinion of the training services supplied
by INATEC and has complained about the efficiency and utility of the current system.
Aside from the obvious incentive to informalization that the payroll levy for poorly
regarded services creates, there i s the broader issue o f upgrading skills in the workforce.
Such training i s critical for two reasons. First improvements in education will affect the
next generation, not current workers. Second improved skills and training facilities i s
critical to increase efficiency and attracting foreign investment in higher value added
activities.

112. Reform Strategy. The Government of Nicaragua is committed to reviving and
accelerating economic growth - with a specific focus on supporting private sector
development and identifying bottlenecks that constrain the efficiency of production and
distribution systems. By improving Nicaragua's investment climate, the Government
expects to create employment opportunities for the poor, increase productivity of the
private sector, increase the value and diversity of exports and establish the foundations
for sustainable growth. By providing direct support to small and medium-scale
enterprises-in     the form of simplified quality certification standards, training and
advisory services-the    Government expects to reduce the access gaps to knowledge and
innovation between large, small and medium firms, ensuring that the development of the
private sector i s widespread and the benefits of growth are broadly distributed.

113. Toward this end, the Government in partnership with the private sector has created
a specialized investment promotion agency, Pro-Nicaragua, to promote the country as a
destination for FDI. The agency has adopted a highly focused strategy o f promotion to
specific sectors (e.g. garments, tourism and agro-industry) and currently has a pipeline of
potential investment in excess o f 100 million dollars. Following this model, the
Government i s currently restructuring the export promotion agency to adopt an action
plan focused on increasing and diversifying exports. This agency will provide demand-
driven market intelligence and certification programs that will allow entry into new
markets and increase the diversification of both products and export markets.

114. A key challenge within the reform strategy is to ensure competition in product and
service markets with an emphasis on those in which transactions costs limit competition.
In these markets, the creation of a level playing field is necessary to induce entry into
markets by firms o f all sizes and to ensure that consumers benefit through improved



                                                                                          42

 goods and services and reduced prices. Beside the obvious economic benefits this
 outcome i s crucial for the reform program as it will generate needed public support for
 further reforms. In the area of competition policy the Government i s moving ahead with
 the assistance of FIAS and the Bank to examine the exact type of competition institution
 that would best suit Nicaragua and will be initiating a study on this to propose options to
 the Government. Recently the Government and the Presidential Competition Commission
 agreed to make a program of administrative barrier reduction the centerpiece of their
 short term agenda. Preparatory work with FIAS i s currently underway to establish key
 areas and processes that will be targeted in the reform effort. To ensure that the program
i s relevant to SMEs a specific work plan for municipal level reforms i s being discussed.
Extensive consultations with the industry level cluster commission i s ongoing to pinpoint
areas for reform.

 115. In the area of the general investment climate the Bank i s in the process of carrying
out an investment climate assessment of Nicaragua which will suggest a set of reforms
for both the short and medium term. The PRSC i s not pre-determining the outcome of
this work but seeks to allow space for these conclusions to be fully discussed and agreed
with the Government and incorporated into later credits. It is expected that a number of
recommendations will emerge from this on-going analytical work, including the need to
streamline the registration process for businesses.

 116. There i s already agreement with the Government on the need to reform the training
system through increasing demand driven private sector provision o f training and to
reorient and strengthen INATEC in its role of regulation and policy making. The
Government i s currently drafting TOR for an assessment o f INATEC which will lead to
the agreement o f a reform plan which will be incorporated in the later series of the
PRSCs. Additional actions will also be supported through the Competitiveness project.

117. Expected Results. Specific results for this section include reducing the time of firm
registration time from 28 days for basic procedures in 2003 to 17 days in 2005 and an
increase in the index of non traditional exports from 100 in 2002 to 107.6 in 2005, an
increase in the value of foreign private investment from US$ 204 million in 2002 to US$
237 million in 2005. Specific actions outlined in the Schedule 2 will also lead to
Nicaragua's increased capacity to promote competition and protect consumer rights by
establishing a new independent agency which, by PRSC 11, will have investigated and
ruled on 5 cases o f competition matters and 5 cases of consumer complaints. Finally, the
training courses provided by INATEC will have been improved to better serve the
workforce by ensuring that the training funds from INATEC to privately provided,
demand driven training activities are increased from 50 percent in 2002, to 75 percent in
2005.

Broaden Access to Land and Credit

118. Key Issues. Lack of clear property rights and limited access to finance are serious
constraints to investment in Nicaragua. Uncertainty o f property rights due, for example,
to the lack of clear land titles, has huge ramifications for investment and growth. It makes



                                                                                         43

 current occupants less likely to invest in maintenance and upgrading of their land as well
 as constrains the use of land as collateral for credit to improve agricultural productivity. It
 also inhibits the sale of land for more productive uses, increases risks, costs and time for
 foreign investors making investment less attractive, impedes a smoothly functioning land
 market that allows for rental of land without fear of ownership claims based on usufruct
rights and, finally, impedes the collateralization of assets, reducing access to finance for
investment and technological upgrading.

 119. The lack of access and highcost of finance are among the highest rated obstacles to
investment and growth in a recent firm level survey. The financial sector has undergone a
severe contraction after a banking crisis brought about by poor lending practices. The
country has been trying to strengthen both the supervision of microfinance institutions
and information systems which would reduce information asymmetries and transaction
costs. There i s a large, mainly donor funded, micro-finance industry inNicaragua that has
been pushing for legislation that would allow it to mobilize deposits without normal
prudential regulation or regulatory oversight. Such a situation increases risks.
Unregulated non-bank financial institutions in a competitive market have led to pyramid
schemes and the defrauding of large numbers of poor investors in a number o f countries
in the last decade. Combined with donor supported, non-commercial micro-finance there
i s also a history of subsidized credit from government institutions which has crowded out
commercially oriented financial institutions. In addition, the strict usury laws have meant
that a good deal of lending to poor, mainly rural households uses non-transparent fees
and commissions to compensate for the low interest ceilings. The end result i s that,
despite subsidies, the cost of credit to poor household and rural areas i s extremely high
and does not promote asset accumulation.

120. Reform Strategy. The Government is in the midst of a significant reform of the
registries, cadastre and titling system through new legislation creating a secretariat of
registries linked to the national cadastre, that will facilitate titling o f all property in
Nicaragua. These changes will help to speed up preparation of the cadastres, registration
and titling which should lead to the ability to buy, sell, rent and collateralize land
efficiently. While these developments are likely to benefit the majority of rural producers
inNicaragua, a subset of the population that requires special attention are the indigenous
communities. After several years of political stalling the National Assembly has recently
passed a law aimed at ensuring enhanced security of tenure and access to land for
indigenous communities on the Atlantic Coast. The Government i s now embarked on a
demarcation and titling process. While this process i s advancing and clearly has the
support of the Government, it i s somewhat slower than had originally been expected.
This is largely due to the extensive consultation process with indigenous peoples
communities that has taken place with three objectives: (i)     develop a clear and common
understandingof Law 440 and agreement on the standardization and certification process,
(ii) onthecriteriafordeterminingwholegitimateindigenouspeopleare,and(iii)
    agree
agree on the roles and responsibilities of the different actors needed to conclude the
process. Because the ownership and agreement o f indigenous people in these 3 areas i s
key to the successful implementation of land demarcation, the Government i s keen to
conclude the process only when there i s agreement rather than rushing towards the



                                                                                            44

 implementation of the letter of the law which risks being resisted by the intended
 beneficiaries. The Bank i s closely accompanying the process and providing technical
 assistance to the institutions involved to allow for progress of titling activities in
 indigenous areas.

 121. In terms of financial system stability the Government has asked the LMF and World
 Bank to carry out a comprehensive Financial Sector Assessment (FSAP) which i s
 scheduled to begin in early December, 2003. The PRSC will not attempt to foresee the
 outcome of this exercise but will allow space in the later credits for findings and action
plans to be incorporated. In the area of micro finance, the Government has signaled a
double priority to both establish an adequate legal and regulatory framework for the
 sector while moving towards a sector wide program to ensure maximum access to
financial services. The proposed Proyecto de Ley de Microfiinanzas i s considered b y
many national and international experts to be fundamentally flawed, given that it would
permit unregulated, unsupervised institutions to mobilize savings. There i s an evolving
consensus between Government, the national microfinance association (ASOMIF),
microfinance institutions, and donors that a special law i s required - and that the
structural flaws of the draft law can be addressed effectively. To lead the sector wide
program, the Government established a Technical Committee including senior members
o f the Superintendency of Banks, the FinancieraNicaraguense de Inversiones (second tier
financial institution), the Central Bank of Nicaragua, and the Ministry of Economy
(MIFIC). The national microfinance strategy to be developed by the Committee will form
the basis for the upcoming Nicaragua Broad Based Access to Financial Service Technical
Assistance Project, which will address problems in access caused b y regulatory and
supervision issues, second tier financing issues, and retail microfinance capacity. The
project i s expected to be considered by the Board inFY 04.

122. Expected Results. Reforms in this area will lead to 26,000 indigenous people in 8
indigenous territories with fully recognized land rights. In addition, reforms in the
registration and cadastre system should significantly improve the speed and efficiency o f
these services. The goal i s to reduce the time of registry and cadastre services, which
according to MIFIC i s currently 90 days, to 45 days in2005. Efficient registration will, in
turn, allow for a more smoothly functioning land market, including buying, selling,
renting and collateralizing of land to develop.           In the     financial sector the
recommendations coming out of the FSAP would be expected to strengthen the banking
sector and reduce systemic risks. For micro-finance, the clarification o f a regulatory
framework and supervisory responsibility will help to encourage sustainable,
commercially viable micro-finance industry and increase the number of points o f micro
finance services by supervised and non supervised financial institutions by 10 percent
from 208 in 2003 to 228 in 2005.

IncreaseProductivity of Agriculture and Forestry

123. Key Issues. Recent analytical work strongly suggests that agriculture and forestry
were among the key sectors driving both strong economic growth and poverty reduction
over the last decade. However, the causes of this growth-high    export commodity prices,



                                                                                         45

 the availability of unoccupied land and a return to normality after a decade of civil war-
 were temporary. None of these factors can be expected to deliver a boost to growth
 indefinitely. This means that growth in the rural sector, where most of the poor are
 concentrated, i s likely to be short-lived in the absence of new stimuli to sustain
 agricultural and forestry output growth. In order to take advantage of trade opportunities,
 including those expected to arise out of CAFTA, there i s a need for more pragmatic
 policies to spur agricultural and forestry growth. A shift from producing low value-added,
 traditional commodities, with little diversification or penetration in foreign markets i s
 necessary to help these sectors focus on higher value-added, diversified, non-traditional
export products. To support this shift, Nicaragua needs to move away from a model in
which donor imposed priorities lead to a multiplication of uncoordinated projects and
 strategies, and towards a strategy focused on harmonizing donor actions, promoting
private-public partnerships and providing consistency in funding.22Without this, current
and future foreign assistance will continue to undermine planning and effectiveness inthe
sector, as well as providing conflicting signals and incentives to various economic agents.

 124. Reform Strategy. Inthe agricultural sector, the government i s moving towards the
establishment of a sector program to ensure that investments in each sector are well
coordinated, consistent and effective. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAG-
FOR), in coordination with the Ministry of Economy (MIFIC) and the SECEP, will lead
the design and consultation process around this sector program, with assistance from the
many interested donors agencies. The sector program and resulting strategy will then
allow for a coordinated allocation of public funds to the executing agencies within the
sector - including the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA), the
Instituto Nacional Forestal (INAFOR), the Instituto de Desarrollo Rural (IDR) and the
Fondo de CrCdito Rural (FCR) - based on specific subsidiary agreements and procedures
for donor coordination. The strategy would outline the portfolio of programs that will
target small producers and raise their productivity and management capacity. Criteria
would be aimed at securing higher returns to public investments and encouraging
profitability o f sub-projects. Managing a few sector programs with narrow, well-targeted
objectives i s likely to prove much more effective than the current practice.

 125. Expected Results. By clarifying sector policies for agriculture and forestry that put
primacy on facilitating investment in export oriented products the Government hopes to
attract more investment to these sectors, increase exports and improve rural incomes.

Access and Quality of Infrastructure

126. Key Issues. Access to productive infrastructure - especially for the poor - is also
limited in Nicaragua. Seventy-three percent of Nicaragua's roads are classified as in



22 Private sector participation in such strategies helps to remove biases in economic policies, encourages the
implementation of anti-monopoly measures to increase the competitive structure of the economy, and
promotes active policy measures for cost-effective and efficient human resources development. Successful
partnerships between the public and the private agents share the costs and the risks of joint projects. This
strategy would also stabilize sector funding. Over the 1990s, the amount of agriculture spending varied
from plus 157percent of the level at which it began the decade to minus 32 percent.


                                                                                                           46

 "poor" condition, only 11percent of rural households have access to electricity and very
 few rural inhabitants have access to a phone (nearly two thirds of all fixed line phones in
 the country are in Managua). All of these levels are well below the average in Central
 America and all are much more severe on the Atlantic coast, particularly among
 indigenous communities. These problems make it difficult for poor populations to use
 their productive assets and participate in the benefits of growth. For example the lack of
 electricity deprives the poor from making the most out of their crops, ensuring the well
being of their cattle, processing and storing their products and adopting more efficient
business practices and technologies. Without access to information, rural farmers do not
know the prices paid for their crops in other markets and have difficulty effectively
marketing their goods. The poor state of the roads raises the cost of maintenance for
transport services providers and hence the costs to rural producers who wish to get their
goods to market, lowering the income they receive and reducing their competitiveness in
international markets. The recent drivers of growth study has shown high level of
complementarities between access to rural infrastructure (particularly roads), education
and improved agricultural technologies. This suggests that ensuring provision of rural
infrastructure, improved schooling and agricultural extension significantly raises rural
incomes. Despite the fact that many donors and public agencies are engaged in these
sectors, the lack of clarity about strategic goals and predictability in funding sources has
made progress slow. The PRSC thus provides an opportunity to pursue reforms that
would remove key obstacles and thus ensure that investment in these sectors translate
into better and more accessible infrastructure services. This includes investments
financed by the Bank in rural electrification, rural roads and rural telecommunications
(Annex 4).

 127. Reform Strategy. In view of the Government's severe fiscal limitations, there i s
little possibility of achieving a major expansion in infrastructure without significant
private participation. Accordingly, a key pillar in the Government's development strategy
for this sector has been to attract greater private sector participation in the energy and
telecommunications sectors, including through the privatization of ENITEL and o f
ENEL'sgenerating and distribution companies. The Government has already divested 51
percent o f the shares of ENITEL and i s currently in the process of selling the remaining
49 percent. Inthe energy sector, the Government has divested all of ENEL's distribution
units and half of the power generating units. Privatization of the remaining generating
units has been postponed for market structural reasons. The Government is currently
completing a plan to strengthen the energy sector's policy, legal and regulatory
framework. In addition, the Government i s planning to use market forces to allow it to
redress the inequitable distribution of basic infrastructure b y creating funding
mechanisms that ensure competitive allocation of contracts to extend and maintain
critical infrastructure. This will be accomplished through: (i)     the creation of funding
mechanisms with reliable and predictable annual allocations and (ii) more transparent
                                                                          a
and efficient allocation of resources from the funds to communities by having private
companies, NGOs and cooperatives compete with projects that improve or extend
infrastructure. For instance, in the telecom sector, FITEL will use least-subsidy bidding
to extend coverage, while FODEIN will use a similar mechanism to extend electricity




                                                                                         47

coverage and F O M A V will use competitive private sector contracts to ensure
maintenance i s performed.

 128. In the telecommunications sector, the Government plans to create a Telecom
investment fund (FITEL), financed b y a 2 percent user levy that i s already collected by
the regulator, and which will increase coverage to under-served areas through bidding
contracts for the lowest subsidy, a strategy which has worked extremely well in Peru and
Chile. There i s also a need to increase the level of competitive pressure within the sector
inorder to reduce prices and ensure highquality service, this will be achieved by 2005, at
the expiration of ENITEL's exclusivity over local and long distance telephone service.
(PRSC 11). In electricity the Government will ensure that the Fund for Rural
Electrification, FODIEN, will be restructured and sufficiently funded to allow for a
sustainable and efficient expansion of electricity coverage in rural areas. This will entail
some budget commitment on the part of the Government but importantly will allow
donors to contribute to a fund with a clear goal and definable benchmarks in extending
rural electrification. This fund already exists and i s managed b y CNE according to the
electricity law so it will not entail any new bureaucracy or administrative costs. The
advantages of the fund over budget transfers to CNE i s that it i s clearly focused on rural
electrification with clear technical standards and rules and procedures to guide choice of
projects to maximize impact. This also helps to provide potential donors with assurances
that the money will be well managed and they are more likely to invest. Nicaragua has
the worst rated road infrastructure among Central American countries. Nicaragua has
borrowed to construct or re-construct the main backbone of its roads system which
carries 60-65 percent of all traffic in the country. It i s thus imperative that these roads are
not allowed to deteriorate due to cyclical budget constraints as has happened in the past.
Poor maintenance dramatically increases the cost of transport and reduces the
competitiveness of Nicaraguan products in international markets. To address this
historical problem of poor maintenance a dedicated fund (FOMAV) was created to assure
increased maintenance o f existing roads through contracts with private firms and local
micro-enterprises. This has the double benefit of ensuring road quality while giving both
employment and experience to small local firms. Hence the Government has recently
submitted to the National Assembly a draft law that would ensure FOMAV's financing.

129. Expected Results. In telecommunications the creation o f FITEL i s expected to
initiate a program o f concessions to extend rural telecom services. Through this program
half of all villages with 10,000 or more inhabitants will have access to at least one public
phone by 2006. Similarly, in electricity, the funding of FODIEN i s expected to increase
rural electricity coverage from 53.9 percent in 2002 to 58.8 percent in 2005. As the
National Rural Electrification Plan i s prepared other targets will be agreed upon. For
roads, FOMAV will contract out the maintenance of 1,200 kms. o f roads to private firms
and local micro-enterprises by December, 2004 thereby lowering transport costs and
providing temporary employment.

130. PRSCprior actions. The following reform measures would constitute prior actions
for Boardpresentation:




                                                                                             48

       The Presidency has issued a decree creating the telecommunications investment
       fund (FITEL).

131. PRSC conditions for second tranche disbursement. The following reform
measures would constitute conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche:

       The National Land Committee (CONADETI) has completed demarcation, the
       Intendencia de la Propiedad has titled and the Supreme Court has registered at
       least 5 indigenous territories inthe Bosawas region.
       CNEhas restructured the rural electrification fund (FODIEN), inconsultation
       with MHCP, through: (i) necessary modifications of the FODIEN's legal
                                   the
       structure, based on its evaluation, (ii)the entry into effect of rules and procedures
       for sub-project selection, implementation and monitoring, (iii)    the establishment
       o f funding, financing mechanisms and subsidy allocation criteria for sub-projects,
       (iv) the entry into effect of rules and procedures for FODIEN's management, and
       (v) the adoption of a medium-term financing plan of FODIEN, consistent with
       overall fiscal sustainability.

132. Triggersfor PRSC ZZ. The Broad -Based Growth pillar is, perhaps, the least well
developed o f the components in the National Development Plan. The Bank has initiated
analytical work - including an investment climate assessment as well as a financial sector
assessment program - which will help the Government to identify key reform areas.
These reform areas are of great importance to the successful implementation o f the
National Development Plan as well to Nicaragua's ability to enjoy the benefits o f
regional integration under CAFTA, while minimizing the risks. For now, two prior
actions have been identified and it i s possible that others will develop once the second
generation PRSP i s approved.


    0  The new institutional framework for registries, including the link with cadastre,
       has been implemented through the establishment o f the National Directorate o f
       Public Registries and the initiation of operations o f the SIICAR.


    0  FOMAV has started to receive the resources established by the amendment to the
       law and has contracted road maintenance activities for 1200 K M s . of roads with
       microenterprises and private contractors.




                                                                                          49

                          V.         THE PROPOSEDOPERATION

 133. To support the implementation of the PRSP, the World Bank would provide a series
of PRSCs. PRSC Iwill have two tranches while subsequent PRSCs would be single
tranche operations. The criteria used to identify potential prior actions for PRSC Iwere
designed in an attempt to avoid overloading the matrix and are based on emerging best
practice in programmatic lending. The criteria include: i)action clearly supported by the
country's PRSP and the World Bank's CAS, ii)PRSP i s undeniably best instrument to
support the intervention, iii)action provides strategic leverage to whole program of donor
assistance in Nicaragua, iv) action i s supported by a key leader within the GON, with
sufficient technical support to guarantee its implementation, v) action represents a clear
sector priority, vi) action will have a catalytic effect, and vi) action will contribute to
poverty reduction results on the ground. The staff of IDA have worked in collaboration
with virtually the whole government cabinet and held regular meetings with civil society,
the international community and members of the National Congress, to ensure that the
proposed actions pass these criteria. The actions proposed lend themselves well to a
programmatic approach since they offer incentives for a series of catalytic reforms over a
medium-term period. PRSC I1would precede once the triggers for the high case lending
scenario of the CAS and the triggers for this operation indicated in Schedule 2 are met.

                      A.        Conditionsfor disbursementof PRSCI

134. The prior actions for disbursement of the first tranche were completed before Board
presentation and the corresponding disbursement would occur during the first quarter of
2004. The second tranche would be disbursed once the corresponding conditions are met.
Conditions for disbursement of the second tranche are expected to be completed by the
last quarter of 2004, with the correspondingdisbursement occurring in early 2005.

135. Under the base case scenario, PRSC disbursements would be aligned with the
budget cycle inthe following way. The agreements on actions to be included inthe policy
matrix would occur towards the beginning of the third quarter of each calendar year23, at
the same time that the IMF agrees with the Ministry of Finance on the expenditure
ceilings for the following year. In doing so, the budgetary implications and implied
actions in the policy matrix will be consistent with the spending by the constraints under
the PRGF. The annual PRSP progress report would be presented towards the end of the
third quarter, and at the same, time the Ministry of Finance would prepare the following
year's budget. Disbursements would occur early in the following calendar year which
coincides with the fiscal year inNicaragua.24




23InNicaraguathe fiscal year coincides with the calendar year.
24Under the high case scenario, the implications for alignment with the budgetary cycle will be reviewed
with the authorities.




                                                                                                     50

136. The Banks' decision to proceed with subsequent PRSC operations would be based
on the completion of triggers proposed in each operation for its successor. Accordingly,
the proposed triggers for PRSC I1are indicated in section V.B.

137. The borrower i s expected to fulfill the following prior actions prior to Board
presentation o f the proposed PRSC:

       The National Assembly has approved a budget for 2004 that i s consistent with
       poverty reduction expenditures of the NFPS of at least 11.4percent of GDP.
       Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
       The National Assembly has appointed a new Superintendent of Pensions. The
       organizational structure and staffing of the Superintendency of Pensions has been
       streamlined, respecting fiscal budget constraints.
       The National Assembly has approved a Civil Service Law satisfactory to IDA.
       The Presidency has issued a Presidential Decree, satisfactory to IDA, establishing
       a single, unified official registry of public investments, complementing the
       regulations of the National System of Public Investments.
       SECEP has initiated the routine calculation of the recurrent cost implications of
       the Public Investment Program, and MHCP has initiated plans to create a Medium
       Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) on this basis.
       All internal revenues and expenditures of the Central Government are channeled
       through the CUT. MHCP initiated introduction o f externally funded revenues and
       expenditures inthe CUT.
       Sufficient financing for the incorporation of 500 additional schools into the
       Participatory Education Regime in 2004 has been guaranteed.
       The Social Cabinet has approved a Social Protection Policy (Solidaridad),
       satisfactory to IDA, including a plan of action for strategic areas.
       The Presidency has issued a decree creating the telecommunications investment
       fund (FITEL).

138. The borrower i s expected to fulfill the following conditions prior to the release of
the second tranche:

       The National Assembly has approved a budget for 2005 that i s consistent with
       poverty reduction expenditures o f the NFPS o f at least 11.6 percent of GDP.
       Execution of poverty reduction expenditures o f the NFPS in 2003 represented at
       least 11percent of GDP.
       Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
       Inaccordance with the roadmap for pensionreform: (i) Presidencyhasissued
                                                                 the
       decrees, satisfactory to IDA, reforming decrees 57-2000 and 975, before AFPs
       start to operate, to partially reduce the fiscal impact of the pension reform by,
       inter alia, adjusting the replacement rate o f the compensation bond and the
       number o f years for determining the average salary used to calculate pension
       benefits, (ii) the Superintendencies of Banks and Pensions have agreed on a
       satisfactory   information   sharing   system    between them,      and   (iii)the
       Superintendencies o f Banks and Pensions have designed a "Chinese Wall" system


                                                                                       51

        to prevent the use of        inside information between AFPs and their parent
        companies inthe banking system.
        A PresidentialDecree has been issuedmodifying the regulations of the Law of
        Municipalities in a fiscally sustainable manner, by balancing, within the
        limitations imposed by law, municipal expenditures with resources transferred to
        municipalities, and the 2005 budget conforms with the approved decree.
        SECEP (SNIP) has implemented complementary regulations of the National
        System of Public Investment by incorporating                all public    investment
        projects/programs into the official registry o f public investments, including those
        financed by grants.
       The National Assembly has approved a 2005 budget that allows for the
       incorporation of 1,180 additional schools into the Participatory Education
       Regime.
       CONAPAS has approved a National Water and Sanitation Strategy, acceptable to
       IDA and KfW, which defines, among other things, the role of ENACAL inthe
       urban area and of FISEin the rural area.
       CONADETI has completed demarcation, the Intendencia de la Propiedad has
       titled and the Supreme Court has registered at least 5 indigenous territories in the
       Bosawas region.
       CNE has restructured the rural electrification fund (FODIEN), in consultation
       with MHCP, through: (i) necessary modifications of the FODIEN's legal
                                     the
       structure, based on its evaluation, (ii)the entry into effect of rules and procedures
       for sub-project selection, implementation and monitoring, (iii)     the establishment
       of funding, financing mechanisms and subsidy allocation criteria for sub-projects,
       (iv) the entry into effect of rules and procedures for FODIEN's management, and
       (v) the adoption of a medium-term financing plan of FODIEN, consistent with
       overall fiscal sustainability.

                               B.      Triggers for PRSCI1

139. Triggers for PRSC 11are indicative and their compliance will form the basis of
whether the Bank will proceed with the subsequent operation. In the case that these
actions are not met, the Bank could either delay the operation, or reduce the amount or
modify the program, where justified. The following triggers are proposed:

       Execution of poverty reduction expenditures of the non financial public sector in
       2004 represented at least 11.4percent of GDP.

    0  Maintained adequate macroeconomic framework.
    0  The National Assembly has approved parametric changes to the social security
       legal framework, satisfactory to IDA, aimed at reducing the long-term fiscal
       deficit arising from the pension reform.
    0  Between 5,000 and 7,000 public employees have been incorporated into the
       administrative career, following transparent procedures established in the Civil
       Service Law.
    0  All donor funds channeled through public sector entities are recorded inthe CUT,
       incoordination with GONsignatory agencies anddonors.


                                                                                         52

    0   The new institutional framework for registries, including the link with cadastre,
        has been implementedthrough the establishment of the National Directorate of
        Public Registries and the initiation of operations of the SIICAR.
    0   FOMAV has started to receive the resources established by the amendment to the
        law and has contracted road maintenance activities for 1200 K M s of roads with
        microenterprises and private contractors.

                C.      ImplementationandMonitoringArrangements

 140. A task force has been established to monitor the implementationof the prior actions
and conditions set forth in the PRSC. The task force i s inclusive of the different
government ministries who are championing reforms, set forth under the PRSC, and
consists of representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank and the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency in charge of sectoral planning across the social
sectors. The individual members of the task force include specialists in macroeconomic
management, public investment, public sector modernization and social sector policies.
Most members of this task force are also counterparts to the IMF's PRGF program, thus
ensuring consistency in content and timing between both programs. The Bank's task team
leaders would meet quarterly with this government task force to review overall budget
allocations, with special attention to execution of poverty expenditures. For this purpose
the PRSC policy matrix incorporates the authorities' agreement to provide simple
quarterly reports of overall and poverty-relatedexpenditures to IDA, in an agreed format.

141. In addition, the authorities have agreed to continue to prepare annual PRSP
progress reports after the HIPC completion point has been reached. The borrower has
agreed that these PRSP progress reports would include: (i)      an overall assessment of the
macroeconomic situation and poverty reduction, (ii)        an explanation of the status of
compliance with prior actions and triggers in the current PRSC, (iii)        information on
progress inachieving the intermediate targets and result indicators contained in the policy
matrix, and (iv) a public expenditure review prepared yearly by the government
authorities, providing information and analysis thereof on the major expenditure
aggregates, with emphasis on those related to poverty reduction.

142. The UK co-financers o f the accompanying technical assistance credit (DFID), have
earmarked $1 million to develop Nicaragua's capacity for social accountability at the
local, departmental and national level. Building on the reforms and systems set out under
the PRSC, that ensure access to information and participation of communities in the
planning and oversight o f public service delivery, these capacity building efforts will
ensure that reforms result in increased accountability of public actions among citizens.
More specifically, emerging global and regional experience in training in budget literacy,
independent budget monitoring, participatory monitoring and evaluation and community
feedback mechanisms through user score cards will be piloted. This will also strengthen
the new, more open planning and monitoring systems with sector ministries at the
national level.




                                                                                          53

 143. Finally, task team leaders will coordinate closely with the IMF and the donor
community in Nicaragua, especially with the co-financers of PRSC Iand PSMTAC and
the budget support group, to review implementation and carefully monitor results in
terms of impact. Periodic meetings will be held with civil society organizations to gain
their feedback on implementation.

                               D.     InstitutionalCapacity

 144. The Bank foresees the use of several lending and non-lending instruments to
reinforce institutional capacity to carry out the reform actions indicated in the policy
matrix (Schedule 2). In the first place, the Bank has in its portfolio several investment
credits covering most of the action areas (Annex 4). The team leaders of these investment
credits are part of the PRSC team and, in agreement with their respective government
counterparts who are likewise part of the borrower's broad PRSC team, have agreed to
use these projects to provide necessary financing and technical assistance to carry out the
agreed actions. Secondly, the PSMTAC project i s being prepared in parallel and in close
coordination with the proposed PRSC. The PSMTAC will include support for the priority
actions in the institutional building and governance area of the PRSC policy matrix.
While PSMTAC becomes effective, the EMTAC has provided support for the PRSC
prior actions. Lastly, the task team has applied for and obtained a borrower-executed
PHRD grant, which the borrower has also used to undertake prior actions for Board
presentation.

                              E.      CreditAdministration

145. The borrower would be the Republic of Nicaragua. The Credit would be for an
amount equivalent to US$ 70 million, on standard IDA terms, to be disbursed in two
tranches anticipated during the first quarters of 2004 and 2005, respectively. The closing
date for the Credit would be December 31, 2005. A subsequent PRSC for US$ 25 million
would be prepared and presented for consideration of the Board during FY05, provided
the triggers for the highcase lending scenario are met.

146. FiduciaryAspects. The recently concluded draft CFAA and CPAR have identified
the strengths and weaknesses of Nicaragua's financial management and procurement
systems. These reports provide, in the Bank staff's view, sufficient comfort to proceed
with the proposed operation. Further, the PRSC itself would be the main vehicle for the
Bank to support the CFAA and CPAR policy recommendations for improving public
financial management and public procurement in Nicaragua, while the accompanying
technical assistance operation, PSMTAC, would provide financial and technical
assistance to implement the actions agreed upon with the authorities.

147. Proposed Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Requirements. The Credit
will follow IDA'Ssimplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. That is,
the Credit proceeds would be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated two-tranche
release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases and no
procurement requirements would be needed. Once the Credit i s approved by the Board,



                                                                                         54

the Borrower would open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in US Dollars for the
Borrower's use. As each tranche i s released, IDA will disburse the proceeds of the Credit
into the deposit account. If the proceeds of the Credit or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require
the Borrower to either return that amount to the deposit account for use for eligible
purposes or refund the amount directly to IDA. The deposit account in U S Dollars would
be maintained in the Central Bank and its transactions and balances fully incorporated
into the Government's accounting records and financial statements, via the integrated
financial management system (SIGFA). When Credit proceeds are withdrawn from the
Deposit Account and converted into Cbrdobas, all such conversions will be by way of
sale to the Central Bank, and the C6rdobas equivalent amount i s to be paid into the
Treasury's Single Account for legitimate budgetary purposes.

 148. The financial statements of the Deposit Account are to be produced in forms
acceptable to IDA. IDA reserves the right to require an audit of the deposit account by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. In such a case, the audit report would be
submitted no more than six months after the date o f IDA'Srequest. The audit would be
conducted in line with international standards and would provide comfort that the Credit
proceeds were recorded and passed on to the Treasury Single Account for authorized
budget purposes.

149. Environmental Aspects. The proposed PRSC i s a structural adjustment operation
covering a broad spectrum of economy-wide policies and institutions. The environmental
provisions of OD8.60 (Adjustment Lending Policy) apply. The environmental linkages of
the reformmeasures supported by the proposed PRSC are analyzed inAnnex 6.

                        F.      Coordination with Other External Partners

150. The operation has been prepared in a highly consultative and coordinated fashion.
Numerous consultations with the IMFon the amount, timing and content o f the operation
have taken place (see also Annex 7). Care has been taken to avoid duplication with IDB's
policy-based operations. Other donors have been consulted repeatedly during the
preparation process, through the budget support group and a preparation workshop. In
addition, a number of workshops and dialogues have been held with government
authorities, donors and civil society. The Ministry of Finance i s also planning to convene
a meeting with key members of the National Assembly to present the PRSC and request
their support. However, given the political recomposition in the National Assembly at the
end o f the year, the timing of this meeting had not been confirmed at the time of
submission of this document to the print shop.

151. Co-financing or parallel financing25has now been secured for the operation from
German financial cooperation(operating through KfW), which will disburse 4 million
euros for PRSC I,probably along with IDA'S first tranche disbursement. German


25KfWwill disburse its funds on the basis of the same policy matrix, taking into account the Bank's
assessmento f the fulfillment of prior actions and conditions. Under the Bank's operational guidelines, this
constitutes parallel financing, whereas under KfW's operational guidelines this i s considered co-financing.


                                                                                                          55

financial cooperation i s also considering providing an additional 5 million euros to co-
finance PRSC 11, once their program of support to Nicaragua for 2004/2005 i s agreed.
Accordingly, KfW has participatedin all stages of the preparation of PRSC I,  including at
the Operations Committee meeting and negotiations, as observers.

 152. In addition, a budget support group, comprising all donors which provide or are
considering providing policy-based lending to Nicaragua, was formed in the interest of
coordination. This group i s attempting to develop a joint performance assessment
framework and had decided to use the PRSC matrix and a few additional actions or
indicators with a more politic,al content. Following the Government's announcement at
the Consultative Group meeting that it i s their intention to reformulate the PRSP on the
basis of the PND, the budget support group has put on hold this decision. It i s clear,
however, that once the Government reviews its PRSP, future PRSC policy matrices will
be adjusted accordingly.

153. On specific sectoral issues, such as water, or technical assistance in the areas of
public sector reform, there has been close coordination with the IDB. Fiduciary work
undertaken in preparation for the PRSC has been developed jointly or in close
coordination with the IDB as indicated in paragraphs 47 and 50. In addition, the policy
matrix has been developed so as to minimize duplications with other donor-assisted
programs. There i s significant complementarity between the World Bank's and the IDB's
assistance to Nicaragua through policy-based lending. The PRSC Project Document and
Policy Matrix have been shared on several occasions with partners. The accompanying
technical assistance credit - PSMTAC- will also be co-financed by the Netherlands,
Denmark and the United Kingdom.

                                 G. Benefitsand Risks

154. Benefits. The proposed operation would contribute to Nicaragua's poverty
reduction efforts in a number of fundamental ways as follows. First, it will support
Nicaragua's    efforts to increase the State's       accountability, responsiveness and
effectiveness. For example, civil service reform measures supported by the Credit would
increase the professionalism of public servants and, in turn, increase the public sector's
capacity to effectively regulate, monitor and deliver services. The medium-term
expenditure framework and the national monitoring and evaluation system will result in
more efficient management of public resources, while yielding better results on the
ground. The increased transparency and participation around these systems will also
contribute to more effective partnerships between the public sector and the citizens that it
serves. Finally, reforms to the legal framework for procurement and improvements in the
systems for financial management will significantly enhance transparency in Government
transactions and provide the basis for more harmonized support from the donor
community - a key ingredient inincreasingthe efficiency and impact of aid.

155. Second, the PRSC will directly help Nicaragua in its pursuit of core social
development goals contained in the PRSP, which, as previously noted, are fully aligned
with the MDGs. For example, under the PRSC, school completion rates for the poorest



                                                                                        56

two quintiles will increase from 50 to 58 percent by 2005. Implementation of the social
protection strategy supported b y the PRSC i s expected to result in a reduction of chronic
malnutrition in children 0-5 years from nearly 18 percent to 16 percent over a three year
period. The operation should also yield important benefits for Nicaraguan women,
including through increased access to reproductive health services, improved pre-natal
care and a higher proportion of medically-supervisedbirths. Finally, the PRSC-supported
strategy of improved management of the water utility company and increased public-
private partnerships in water provision should result in increased availability of safe
water for the Nicaraguanpopulation.

 156. Third, through its support for the Government's macro-economic program, the
PRSC (along with quick disbursing support being provided by IMF, IDB and other
donors), will help maintain macroeconomic stability -a key pre-requisite for enhancing
growth and competitiveness prospects. In addition, it will assist the country to benefit
from new investment and trade opportunities arising from CAFTA and other regional
economic integration initiatives through strengthening basic infrastructure, human
development and establishing clearer "rules of the game" for business activity and the
role o f the state inregulating it.

 157. Finally, a number of the reforms supported under the PRSC will help improve
donor coordination, for example by fostering sector-wide programming and harmonized
donor assistance in at least three sectors: education, health and agriculture. In addition as
noted earlier, improvements in procurement and financial management supported by the
PRSC help increase the confidence among external partners that resources provided
under sector-wide approaches will be used in a transparent and effective fashion. Over
time, as Government fiduciary processes improve it i s expected that special resource
management arrangements may no longer be necessary for externally assisted activities,
thereby reducing pressures on Nicaragua's limited institutional capacity for program
planning and implementation.

158. Risks. Political differences between the Executive and the Nicaraguan National
Assembly constitute the biggest source of risk for the PRSC. Throughout 2003, important
legislation has been passed with the support o f the opposition Sandinista Party, largely
based on the common understanding that the country cannot afford to miss the HIPC
Completion Point by the end of 2003. By end 2003, however, the Liberal Party, originally
loyal to the administration but latterly a self-declared opposition party, forged an alliance
with the Sandinista Party leading to the temporary release from prison of the Liberal's
leader, former President AlemAn and leaving the Executive in a weakened political
position. This alliance was apparently brokenjust before the present document was being
sent to print, as indicated by the sentencing of the former president to 20 years
imprisonment. These events point to the unpredictability and instability of the relations
between the legislative and the executive. Nevertheless, all sides agree on the need to
comply with all the necessary measures to reach the. HIPC Completion Point in early
2004, including the passage of a 2004 budget that conforms with the PRGF ceilings
agreed with the IMF.




                                                                                          57

 159. While the National Assembly may become a strong opposition force during 2004,
the Government still enjoys wide,           popular support and the continuation of
macroeconomic stability and increased growth, supported by the PRSC, should maintain
 support for its reform agenda. Due to the risk that the Government may not have the
necessary congressional support to pass legislation once the Completion Point has been
reached, the PRSC has been designed as a two-tranche operation with the first tranche
 (pre-HIPC completion) focusing on changes requiring congressional support or approval
and the second designed to ensure continued, effective implementation of these reforms
inan uncertainpolitical environment.

 160. Since the PRSC strongly emphasizes good governance measures, the biggest
potential losers are corrupt individuals who benefit from the lack of transparency and the
operation thus faces the risk that these people may want to stall the proposed reforms.
Because the corrupt are a hidden constituency it i s difficult to design appropriate
safeguards against this risk. However, the present Government has shown strong political
will to fight corruption and has made it the emblem of the administration. In the Bank's
assessment it seems likely that this political commitment will continue and that this i s the
best mitigating instrument against this risk, and that the proposed reforms themselves will
reduce this risk inthe future.

161. Another source of risk is a potentially growing fiscal imbalances in the medium to
long run arising from pension reform and the Fiscal Transfers Law as discussed in section
1I.B. PRSC Iand PRSC I1foresee the adoption of actions needed to complete pension
reform, as detailed in a roadmap presented as condition for reaching the HIF'C
Completion Point. These actions include the adoption of parametric reforms for benefits
calculations, which have proved to be highly contentious in other countries which have
reformed their pension systems. Nevertheless, yielding to public pressure could result in
unsustainable fiscal balances. Therefore, the operation foresees a two-stage approach,
approving regulatory changes to decrease the fiscal cost of the compensatory bonds in the
first stage (condition for the second disbursement of PRSC I), followed b y revisions of
the relevant laws so as to introduce parametric changes to benefits calculations only after
extensive consultations with all relevant stakeholders have taken place. The revisions to
the laws would constitute a trigger for PRSC 11. In order to avoid the potential fiscal
pressures arising from the Fiscal Transfers Law, the authorities intend to modify the
regulations of the Municipal Law, which i s a less contentious issue than modifying the
Law itself. The new regulations would clearly assign exclusive responsibilities to each
level of government, so as to avoid overlapping responsibilities and hence duplication of
costs.

162. Vulnerabilities in the financial sector are another source o f risk. Although a first set
o f banking reforms has already been undertaken and the system i s relatively sound
(capital adequacy ratios average 17 percent), there are indications that the level of non-
performing loans may be underestimated. Hence, the authorities, the Bank and the IMF
have agreed to assess the soundness of the system and undertake a second series of
reforms to strengthen prudential norms and banking supervision. To this end, a Financial
System Assessment Program will be initiated jointly by the IMF and the Bank before the



                                                                                           58

end of 2003 and a Government Letter of Intent and action plan to implement its principal
recommendations i s expected to be signed before the disbursement of the second tranche
o f the proposed PRSC I.

163. Finally, Nicaragua remains vulnerable to external shocks, such as increases in oil
prices (which i s 100 percent imported and used to fuel most electric power plants), price
declines in the main commodities that it exports, as well as to natural disasters. The
PRSC would provide a much needed cushion of foreign resources in the case of the
former, while the latter i s being addressed through of provision of project assistance to
reduce vulnerabilities and mitigate the impact of natural disasters.




                                                                                       59

                               SCHEDULES

Schedule 1: PRSC PRIOR ACTIONS AND CONDITIONS: COMPARISON
            WITHPRSCTRIGGERS AS PERTHE PSAC
Schedule 2: POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND
            PROGRESSBENCHMARKS


                                ANNEXES

Annex 1:    Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
Annex 2:    Nicaraguaat a Glance
Annex 3:   Nicaragua KeyEconomicIndicators
Annex 4:   Nicaragua Status of Bank Group's Operations
Annex 5:   Nicaragua Statementof IFC's CommittedandDisbursedPortfolio
                      ---
Annex 6:   Analysis of EnvironmentandSocialIssues
Annex 7:   Bank-FundRelationsNote




                                                                     60

             SCHEDULE 1




    PRSCPriorActions and Conditions:
Comparisonwith PRSCTriggersas per the PSAC



N

C
2
Y
B
i
A
3
m
L
8
s

1
3

                SCHEDULE 2




                 Policy Matrix:
Government Reform Strategy and Progress Benchmarks


      d3HN

              rr
              0




vr
0
0
N




I

(4

        d3HW    d3HW
                        .-C




2
m
c



-

z0.-


0
w
I

   d33EIS         d3HVI




i            3

   d333SId3HM
                      00
                      3
                      rcl
                      0
                      In




r:               3
                 4

       d3
       HN




012

 d30Id3HM    -VdOIS   d333S
             ldZ33S            cc
                            i




0
Y

d333S    INOJINI / 3SItI   WOJINI
                           / d2HK


V
4
2


-
zd




e,

m
I

     VSNIM    VSNIVl
                        00
                     i
                        ru
                        0




...

       I      VSNIN




8   5e,




           r:
           m


                        x
                       'E-
                       'S
                       Y

                       "
                       aB
                       3b
                       I


                    -

      7V3VNEI    7V3VNEI      VVNI




                                      m  ,




z6                          m        d
                            ti
                            3         ti




D
I
U

.-c         00
            3




       Y

   d3HM       d3HN




?       r:
         d

d'333S

            I


     ZN3

                 Ccl
                 0




I           I

      co
      3
      cc
      0
      00
      3




*
e,

ANNEXES


                                                                                          Annex 1




                     Ministerio de Hacienda y Cre`dito Pziblico


                                    December 12, 2003
                                      MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
1818 H Street, NOW.
Washington, D.C.20433

                                                                   LEllER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY

Dear Mr,Wolfensohn:


I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Nicaragua, a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) of US$ 70 million
equivalentin support of our poverty reductionstrategy, which is described in
the document titled Strengthened Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
(SGPRS) presented to the Boards of the International Development
Association (IDA) and the InternationalMonetary Fund in September 2001,A
second progress report of the SGPRS has been presented by the
Government in November 2003, and is scheduled to be discussed by the
World Bank`s Board in January 2004. This progress report notes that the
second year of implementationof the SGPRSestablishesa satisfactory track-
record to reduce poverty and to to meet the conditions for reaching the
EnhancedHlPC Initiativefloating completion point.

This letter describes the actions that the Government plans to undertake
over the next two years to implement the strategy, focusing particularly on
the measuresthat we believe will contributemost to a sustainable decline in
poverty, In addition, I refer you to the "PRSC Policy Matrix", which was
prepared in collaboration with IDA and donors and that sets out the
contents of this letter in summary form, This PRSC aims to support the basic
premisesof macroeconomicstability and povertyexpenditurewhile focusing
on a select subset of measures of the SGPRS considered priority to reduce
poverty in Nicaragua.          It emphasizes public institutions, governance,
competitiveness and growth,                    and          it continues the        satisfactory
implementationof social sector reformssupported by the PSAC.




                           EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credit0 Pljblico
                                         Managua. Nicaragua
                                Tel.(505) 222-2192 - Fax (505) 222-4383

                                                                                      Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President, InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.2




To contribute in achieving the poverty reductionobjectives set out in the SGPRS,
the reforms supported under the proposed operation aim to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the public sector while improving its transparency and
accountability, (ii) improve the effectiveness and impact of public expenditure
in a number of key sectors through better targeting and coordination of sector
programs, and (iii) strengthen Nicaragua's prospects for investment and broad-
based growth,

Backgroundand Recent Developments

The SGPRS of Nicaragua rests on four strategic pillars: broad-based economic
growth and structural reform, human capital investment, protection of
vulnerable groups, and good governance and institutionaldevelopment. These
four pillars are intertwined with three cross-cutting themes: a reduction in
environmental degradation and ecological vulnerability, an increase in social
equity and decentralization.

The Government has recently presented a draft National Development Plan,
Propuestu de Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (PND), to the Consultative Group
meeting,The draft Plan draws on the SGPRS, but aims at strengthening Pillar I of
the strategy, emphasizing broad-based growth by enhancing the country's
physical infrastructure, improving access to credit and land and providing an
adequate climate for private investment. The PND also provides specific areas
for action under Pillar IV, such as transparency and anti-corruption initiatives,
reforms in the judicial and electoral systems, and strengthening governmental
auditing and citizen participation, The Government has expressed its desire to
include these new areas of emphasis in a second generation SGPRS and has
received strong support from the donor community during the Consultative
Group meeting,

The Reform Program

The matrix presented under the PSAC provides the initial direction for PRSC I, Ina
broad consultation, the activities presented in this initial matrix have been
prioritizedand re-organizedand now form the basisof PRSC I and itssubsequent

                                    EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credit0Pljbiico
                                                  Managua,Nicaroguo
                                         Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                     Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.3



PRSC credits. PRSC I and PRSC II would focus on three subject areas, contained
in the four Pillarsof the SGPRS:


0   Macroeconomic stability and protecting poverty expenditure
0   Building Public Institutionsand Governance(Pillar IV)
0   HumanCapital of the Poor and Vulnerable Populations(Pillars II and Ill)

0   Broad-basedGrowth (Pillar I)

Macroeconomic Stabilitv and Protecting Poverty Expenditures

The Nicaraguaneconomy is still highly vulnerable to various internaland external
shocks. These shocks and, especially, the macroeconomic crises that
accompany them, are most damaging to the poor, thus making the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability a fundamental priority for the
Nicaraguan Government,At the same time, the Government is firmly committed
to protecting poverty related public expenditures, even in times of fiscal shocks,
to guarantee economic opportunities and a minimum level of high quality basic
and social servicesto the poor.

The Government intends to pursue the necessary reforms contemplated in the
economic program agreed with the IMF and to provide the necessary funding
to implement the SGPRS. The Government has recently established a Public
Expenditures Committee that will advise on the proper definition and
classification of poverty reducingexpenditures, and it has invitedthe Bank to join
this Committee as technical advisor. Although formally not a prior action, the
national authorities have agreed to set-up a coordination commission between
the National Treasury and the Central Bank to coordinate the timing and terms
of debt issuesto attain the internal debt reductionset out by the Government.

To ensure a stable macroeconomic framework and poverty reduction spending
the Government has, among other things:

   m   Obtained the approval by the National Assembly of a budget for 2004
       that is consistent with poverty reduction expenditures of the non-financial
       public sector, of at least 11,4%of GDP.
        Taken measures to maintain an adequate macroeconomic framework,

                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credit0Pljbllco
                                                 Managua. Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                       Annex 1




                              Ministerio deHacienday CrLdiitoa 6 L i i

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pag.4

    .   Attained the appointment of a new Superintendent of Pensions and
        streamlining of the organizational structure and staffing of the
        Superintendency of Pensions, respectingfiscal budget constraints,

Further key measures that the Government is planning to carry out in the
following two years include:
    .   Ensuring that the execution of poverty reduction expenditures of the

    ..  nonfinancial public sector in 2003 and 2004, represent at least 11% and
         11,4%of GDP, respectively.
        Taking further measures to maintain an adequate macroeconomic
        framework
        Obtaining approval of a budget for 2005 that is consistent with poverty
    .   reductionexpenditures of the non-financialpublic sector, of at least 11.6%
        of GDP.
        Implementing a roadmap for pension reform that includes reforms to
        decrees 57-2000 and 975 to partially reduce the fiscal impact of the
        pension reform; an agreement between the Superintendencies of
        Pensionsand Banks on an information sharing system between them; and
        a design of a "Chinese Wall" system by the Superintendencies of Pensions
        and Banksto preventthe use of inside information between AFPs and their
        parentcompanies in the bankingsystem
        Issuinga decree that modifies regulationsof the Law of Municipalitiesin a
        fiscally sustainable manner, by balancing within the limitations imposed by
    .   law, municipal expenditures with resources transferred to municipalities,
        The 2005 budget will conformwith the approved decree.
        Ensuring approval of parametric reforms to the social security legal
        framework, aimed at reducing the long-termfiscal deficit arising from the
        pension reform,

Buildina Public Institutionsand Governance

Several studies, including the PER, the CFAA and the CPAR, as well as the recent
test of conformity and materiality of public spending financed by the European
Commission, have contributed to the assessment of Nicaragua's public sector
management.These studies, in addition to the SGPRSand the recent NDP,
                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienda y Credit0 Piiblico
                                                 Managua,Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                                       Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President, InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pag.5



identify areas for improvement.Therefore, the Government is requesting support
for six priority areas through the proposed PRSC: i)                                Civil Service, ii) Public
Investment Program and Medium Term Expenditure Framework, iii) Public Sector
Financial Management, iv) Public Sector Procurement, v) Civil Engagement and
Transparency and (vi) Decentralization,

CivilService Reform

The Civil Service Law that was recently approved by the National Assembly
allowes for competitive hiring, firing based on performance evaluation,
categorization of public servants, career development provisions and
introduction of a merit-based compensation policy, among others, The
Government is committed in the months ahead to carry out the next steps in the
reform agenda, including the approval of the necessary regulations, most of
which have already been prepared, and the implementation of this law,
However, full implementation of the provisions on homogenization of the pay
scale will be gradually undertaken beginning in 2005, to preserve fiscal
sustainability.

Public Investment Programand MediumTerm Expenditure Framework

Public sector investment accounts for 30 percent of expenditures of the
consolidated public sector and 80 percent of the public investment program is
financed by foreign sources. Yet, development indicators do not show a level of
improvementconsistent with such largeamountsof foreign assistance,

To increase the impact of public spending, the Government has decided to
create a single, official registry of public investment regardless of their source or
terms of financing. Towards this end, the Government recently approved a
regulation that makes registration mandatory and prohibits the execution of
public investment expenditureswithout prior registration,At the same time, it will
establish a few basic conditions for registration to ensure that the expenditures
are consistent with sector strategies and to avoid duplication of projects or
programs, In addittion, each project/program incorporated in the official public
investment registry will include a calculation of the recurrent costs necessary to


                                    EdificloMinisteriode Hacienda y Credit0Pljblico
                                                  Managua, Nicaragua
                                         Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                                  Annex 1




                              Ministmk de3lbciendayCrditoW6li

Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pag.4
operate the investment in an efficient manner.                                     Complete and reliable
information on public investment will allow better investment planning and

initiate sector wide approaches,Such an approach is expected to improve aid
coordination, thus increasing the impact of foreign assistance on poverty
reduction,

PublicSector Financial Management

The Government's strategy for improving public financial management builds
around key areas of the CFAA action plan. It includes: (i)                                 Creation of a
consolidated modern legal and normative framework, by presenting to the
National Assembly in 2004 a Public Financial Management Law, and a Fiscal
Responsibility Law (FRL) to introducea mediumterm expenditure framework and
deficit and debt ceilings; (ii) implemention of a comprehensive, well-planned
and accountable budgeting process; (iii) increase institutional and functional
coverage of the integrated financial management system and treasury single
account; (iv) preparation and implementation of a plan for structural
enhancement of internal control and internal audit system; (v) production of
meaningful government financial statements; (vi) implemention of inter-
institutional arrangements to                       monitor            public     financial management
improvements.

PublicSector Procurement

The findings of the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), carried out
by the Government and the World Bank in coordination with the IDB, have
confirmed the need to ensure that adequate direction, management and
coordination of the overall Government Procurement Reform Program (GPRP) is
in place, as well as the need to ensure that the GPRP is realistic and compatible
with the country's implementing and absorptive capacity, The Government is
committed to overcoming some challenges related to the need to strengthen
the legal framework, clarify responsibilities of public institutions involved in
procurement, introduce standard bidding documents and develop human
resources,A detailed Action Plan (AP) to deal with the identifiedissues has been
proposed, which is complementary to those actions being implemented under
the IDBfunded program.


                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienda y CreditoPljblico
                                                 Managua, Nicaragua
                                        Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                      Annex 1




                              MinisteriodeHaciendaycredi'toW6li

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pag.7



Civil Engagementand Transparency

The National Development Plan proposes to institutionalize the relationship
between government and civil society, The Government plans to submit to the
National Assembly a Law on Access to Information, which promotes the
participation of civil society in monitoring of public policies by providing citizens
with transparent information to exercise those rights, The Government has also
decided to institutionalize a system of monitoring and evaluation of various
indicators, related to the MDGs, the SGPRS and the NDP. This system will track
also the indicators used to assess progress in attaining the overall and specific
outcomes of the proposed PRSC.The system will be managed by Secretariat of
the Presidency (SECEP) and will use both surveys and administrative data, The
accompanying technical assistance operation PSMTAC will provide financial
and technical assistance for the establishment of the system,

Decentralization

The Government is taking measures to implement an equitable and effective
decentralization process, Toward this end, it is preparing the regulations to the
Law of Municipalities that will address participatory municipal investment
planning,         To avoid duplications and use resources more efficiently, the
Government has also decided to start the process of improving the institutional
framework to support the municipalities by clearly defining the roles and
responsibilities of the two largest agencies: INIFOM and FISE, as well as their
respective levels of deconcentration and eventual decentralization. The
Commission on Transfers has issued clear guidelines for the closure of the
accounts of the previousyear's municipalbudget.

Inthe area of building public institutions and governance, the Government has:


   0   Submitted to the National Assembly and obtained the approval of a Civil
       Service Law satisfactory to IDA.
   0   Issued a Presidential Decree, satisfactory to IDA, establishing a single,
       unified official registry of public investments, which complements the
       regulations of the NationalSystem of Public Investments.


                                   Edificio Ministeriode Hacienday Credit0Pijbiico
                                                 Managua,Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505)222-3033

                                                                                        Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President, InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MMCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.8


Initiated the routine calculation of the recurrent cost implications of the Public
Investment Program and the plans to create a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework on this basis,
        Taken measures to ensure that all internal revenues and expenditures are
        channelled through the Treasury's Single Account, and initiated
        introductionof externally funded revenues and expenditures,

Further measures that the Governmentwill undertake or promote during the next
two years include:

        Implementingcomplementary regulationsof the NationalSystem of Public
        Investments, by incorporating all public investment projects and programs
        into the official registry of public investments, including those financed by
        grants,
        Guaranteeing that the execution of the 2005 budget is in line with the
        MTEFsubmittedto the NationalAssembly.
        Incorporating at least 5,000 public employees into the administrative
        career, following transparent procedures established in the Civil Service
        Law.
        Passinga FinancialAdministration Law.
   0    Registering all donor funds channelled through public sector entities in the
        Treasury's Single Account, in coordination with signatory agencies and
        donors.
   0    Implementing a system of monitoring and evaluation of the SGPRS, NDP,
        MDG, and PRSC targets and goals at the departmental level in at least 5
        departments.

HumanCaDital of the Poor and Vulnerable Populations

This section of the PRSCwill support reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness
of service delivery in the social sectors in Nicaragua, while ensuring that the
poorest have access to these services and are protected with effective social
safety nets, Such reforms purport that Nicaragua will indeed meet its goals
through a series of three types of actions, that include: (i) ensuring that the
institutional framework is in place in all sectors, (ii) guaranteeing that all sectors
develop the appropriate delivery mechanisms to ensure responsive and
accountable service delivery, and (iii) attaining that public and private, national
                                    Edificio Ministeriode Hacienda y Credit0Pljblico
                                                  Managua. Nicaragua
                                         Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                      Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.9



and international resources support this approach in a coordinated and results-
based manner.

Education

The Government has embarked on an ambitious policy reform agenda in the
education sector, in partnership with donors. The reform program is constructed
around three central policy measures, First, at the core of the reform is a
program of school autonomy that involves the transfer of resources directly to
schools, with responsibility and authority for administrative decisions, The non-
discretional flow of finance to schools ensures the availability of adequate
resources for educational materials at the level of the schools, and community
involvement leads to better use of those resources, The school autonomy
program has been active for a few years, and studies have identified that
community management of schools leads to better performance. Of 6,500
schools in Nicaragua, 2,950 have so far been transferred to become
autonomous schools, and the other 3,550 are expected to be transferred by
2006. Second, the Government is committed to carrying out periodic student
evaluations for all schools, which would be used as inputs to generate 'report
cards' for parents to assess the performance of their school, Third, the
educational reform program also seeks to enhance policy planning and
implementationto better utilizescarce public resources.

Health and Population

Inthe health sector, the Government's reform strategy consistsfundamentally of
a two-pronged approach. First, it introduces a new health care model, which
will emphasize preventionand promotionin combating communicable diseases,
malnutrition and other avoidable health problems, and will focus on improving
health status at the household level, This represents a break with the traditional
curative care model. Second, it improves the efficiency of MINSA by: (i)
restructuring MINSA and reorganizing its principal activities-primarily through
decentralization and the rationalization of primary health care, (ii) introducing
new incentives and management techniques, including performance-based,
resource allocationmethods, The effectiveness and efficiency of MINSAwill also
be enhanced by the NicaraguanGovernment'snew General Health Law, which
                                   EdlflcioMinisterlode Hacienday Credit0 Pljblico
                                                Managua, Nicaragua
                                        Tel(505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                      Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug. 10



more clearly defines and demarcates the Ministry's role and responsibilities, and
laysout the key componentsof itsstructural reformagenda,

The Second SGPRS Progress Report suggests that the performance of the health
sector is improving, at least as measured by intermediate indicators. More
recent, albeit partial, 2002 data reporteda 100%fulfillment rate for one indicator
(improving access to reproductive health services) with the other seven
measured indicators ranging from 82% to 94%. The Government believes it can
further improve on this positive new trend by addressing a number of institutional
reforms that ensure that the sector can offer services based on incentives for
good performanceand defined access and quality standards,

Water and Sanitation

To improve the efficiency and the management of systems in both urban and
rural areas, the Government'sapproach is as follows: First, it will implement two
previously agreed upon pilot management contracts for operation of the water
and sanitation services in two municipalities, Matagalpa and Jinotega, by a
private operator. These pilots will lead improvements in service delivery and
efficiency, resulting in better services and lower costs, Second, the Government
is planning to adopt, in consultation with sector stakeholders, a national water
and sanitation strategy, which will include a clear definition of the roles and
responsibilities of the different actors, a coherent financing policy, an
independent regulatory body as well as an investment plan aimed at increasing
coverage in line with the MDGs, Additionally, the Government will prepare a
modernization plan for the national water utility ENACAL, addressing institutional,
operational and management issues with a view to reducing unaccounted-for
water losses (both commercial and physical), reducing labor and electricity
costs, and improving billingand collection.

The elaboration and implementation of the modernization plan for ENACAL will
lead to an improved efficiency of its operations, The modernization plan will
define ENACAL's target values of efficiency indicators, which should include,
among others: (i) domestic metering coverage index; (ii) collection efficiency;
(iii) working ratio; (iv) productivity measured as number of employees per 1000
water connections; and (v) unaccounted-for water index,
                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienda y Credit0Pljbiico
                                                 Managua. Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax(505) 222-3033

                                                                                        Annex 1




Mr.James D.Woifensohn
President, international DevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.11



Social Protection

The Government has initiated and is committed to continuing social sector
reforms both by modifying the traditional models of service delivery to includea
greater role of and focus on householdsand communities, and by strengthening
and restructuring the respectiveinstitutions.

 1, In the SGPRS the Government defined social protection of the poorest and
mostvulnerable as a priority.As a result, the Government has recently approved
a Social Protection Policy which defines strategic priorities for developing an
effective safety net for the poorest and most vulnerable. It establishes the
institutional roles and responsibilitiesof main social ministries and agencies, and
determines coordination mechanisms so that programs and projects can be
articulated and aligned with priorities and policies, In order to implement the
social protection policy, the Government hastaken some key actions, including:
(i) the assignment of the Ministry of the Family (MiFamilia) as the responsible
government agency for the overall coordination, (ii) the development of a
national beneficiary registry for social programs (which already includes more
than 100,000 beneficiaries from approximately 20 programs and projects), and
(iii) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for the social
programs,

Since social protection is cross-cutting, it contributes to achieving the results
mentioned in other sectors whether it be reducing extreme poverty, ensuring
education for all, or reducing child mortality,A good example of this supportive
function of social protection interventionsis the "Red de Protecci6nSocial (RPS)"
program which provides cash transfers to families in extreme poverty,
conditioned on their children`s regular health clinic visits (children 0-5) and
school attendance             (1-4th grade), A recent impact evaluation of the program
showed a massive average net increase on school enrollment (17.7%) and
attendance (23%), in tandem with a decline of the children 7-13 years of age
working by 5%,Vaccination rates of beneficiaries climbed over 30% and stunting
inchildrendeclined by 5%.In light of these resultsof the pilot phase, the program
is now being expanded to more families, and closely coordinated with and
complemented by other programs,


                                     EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credito Pijblico
                                                   Managua,Nicaragua
                                          Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                      Annex I




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President, InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug. 12



To accomplish the goals of social reform, the Governmenthas:


    0    Guaranteed sufficient financing for the incorporation of 500 additional
        schools into the participatoryeducation regime during 2004,
    0   Approved a social protection policy and a plan of action for strategic
        areas,

Additional steps contemplated by the Government over the following two years
include:


    0   Approving a national budget for 2005 that allows for the incorporationof
         1,180 additional schools into the participatory education regime,
    0   Guaranteeing that no arrears exist in the execution of budgets for the
        financing of the schools in the participatoryeducation regime.
        Approving a nationalwater and sanitationstrategy, which defines, among
        other things, the role of ENACALin the urban areas and of FlSE in the rural
        areas,

Broad-BasedGrowth

Nicaragua has seen very little growth over the last three years due to global
recession, low coffee prices and the return to normal aid levels after the post-
Mitch boom, While the economy appears to be slowly coming out of recession,
ensuring sustained growth will require a number of critical actions, One key
prerequisite is a continuation of the sound macro management implemented
during the last two years. In addition, faster growth in Nicaragua requires further
advances in the development of human capital, infrastructure, financial
services, and governance (including enforcement of propertyrights).

This section of the PRSC will also address needed improvement in four key areas:
(i) supportive climate for investmentthrough greater competition and consumer
protection policies, (ii)          access to land and credit, (iii) improvements in
productivity in agriculture and forestry, and (iv) access to infrastructure services.




                                    EdiflcioMinisteriode Hacienday CreditoPljbiico
                                                  Manoguo, Nicaragua
                                         Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fox(505) 222-3033

                                                                                        Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President, InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.13

Supportive Environmentfor Investment

The Government of Nicaragua is committed to reviving and accelerating
economic growth, with a specific focus on supporting private sector
development and identifying bottlenecks that constrain the efficiency of
production and distribution systems,

Toward this end, the Government in partnership with the private sector has
created a specialized investment promotion agency, Pro-Nicaragua, to
promote the country as a destination for FDI. The agency has adopted a highly
focused strategy of promotion to specific sectors (e.g garments, tourism and
                                                                                   I

agro-industry) and currently has a pipeline of potential investment in excess of
100 million dollars. Following this model, the Government is currently restructuring
the export promotion agency to adopt an action plan focused on increasing
and diversifying exports in four sectors in the short term. This agency will provide
demand-driven market intelligence and certification programs that will allow
entry into new markets and increase the diversification of both products and
export markets.

The Government is planning to reform the training system through increasing
demand driven private sector provision of training and to reorient and
strengthen INATEC in its role of regulation and policymaking,The Government is
currently drafting TOR for an assessment of INATEC which will lead to the
agreement of a reform plan which will be incorporated in the later tranches of
the PRSC.Additional actions will also be supported through the Competitiveness
project,

Broaden Access to Landand Credit

Lack of clear property rights and limitedaccess to finance are serious constraints
to investment in Nicaragua, Recognizing this, the Government is in the midst of
a significant reform of the registries, cadastre and titling system through new
legislationthat creates a secretariat of registries and a nationalcadastre that will
facilitate titling of all property in Nicaragua,These reforms will lead to the ability
to buy, sell, rent and collateralize land more efficiently. In order to ensure
enhanced security of tenure and access to land for indigenous communitieson

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
                                    EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credit0Pfibiico
                                                  Managua.Nicaragua
                                         Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                      Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.14



the Atlantic Coast, the National Assembly passed a law and the Government is
now embarked on the demarcation and titling process,

In terms of financial system stability, the Government has asked the IMF and
World Bank to carry out a comprehensive Financial Sector Assessment (FSAP)
which is scheduled to begin in early December, 2003. In the area of micro-
finance, the Government is planning to both establish an adequate legal and
regulatory framework for the sector, while moving towards a sector wide
program to ensure maximum access to financial services, To lead the sector
wide program, the Government has established a Technical Committee
including senior members of the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial
Institutions, the Financiera Nicaraguense de Inversiones (second tier financiaI
institution), the Central Bank of Nicaragua, and the Ministry of Economics
(MIFIC), The national microfinancestrategy to be developed by the Committee,
will form the basisfor the upcoming Nicaragua Broad Based Access to Financial
Service Technical Assistance Project, which will address problems in access
caused by regulatory and supervision issues, second tier financing issues, and
retail MFI capacity,

Increaseproductivityof Agricultureand Forestry

The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAG-FOR), in coordination with the
Ministry of Economy (MIFIC) and the SECEP, will lead the design and consultation
process around the formulation of a sector program, with assistance from many
interested donors agencies, The sector program and resulting strategy will then
allow for a coordinated allocation of public funds to the executing agencies
within the sector (INTA, INAFOR, IDR, and FCR) based on specific subsidiary
agreements and procedures for donors' coordination. The strategy will outline
the portfolio of programs that will target small producers and raise their
productivityand management capacity,

Access to InfrastructureServices

Inview of the severe fiscal limitations, there is little possibility of achieving a major
expansion in infrastructure services without significant private participation.


                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credito Pljblico
                                                 Managua, Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                     Annex 1




                              Ministerfah3iaciendayCrUitom6lico

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pug.15
Accordingly, a key pillar in the Government's development strategy for this
sector has been to attract greater privatesector participationin the


Telecommunications and Energy sectors, through the privatization of ENITEL and
of ENEL's generating and distribution companies. The Government has already
divested 51 percent of the shares of ENITEL and is currently in the process of
selling the remaining 49 percent, In the energy sector, the Government has
divested all of ENEL's distribution units and half of the power generating units;
privatization of the remaining generating units has been postponed for market
structural reasons, The Government is currently completing a plan to strengthen
the energy sector's policy, legal and regulatory framework. In addition, the
Government is planning to create funding mechanisms that ensure competitive
allocation of contracts to extend and maintain critical infrastructure,These funds
will cover road maintenance and the extension of electricity and
telecommunicationsservices,

To achieve the objectives envisioned in this area, the Government has issued a
presidentialdecree creating the telecommunications investmentfund (FITEL).

Additional steps that will take the Government in the next two years to attain
broad-basedgrowth include:


    0   Completing demarcation, titling and registration in at least 5 indigenous
        territories in the Bosawasregion,
        Restructuring the rural electrification fund (FODIEN) through the necessary
        modifications of its legal structure; the entry into effect of rules and
        procedures for subproject selection, implementation and monitoring; the
        establishment of funding, financing mechanisms and subsidy allocation
        criteria for subprojects; and the entry into effect of rules and procedures
       for FODIEN's management; and the adoption of a medium term plan.
    0   Implementing the new institutional framework for registries, including the
        link with cadastre, through the establishment of the National Directorate of
        Public Registriesand the initiationof operations of the SIICAR.
       Guaranteeing that FOMAV starts to receive the resources established by
       the amendment to the law and has contracted road maintenance
       activities for 1,200 Kms of roads with microenterprises and private
       contractors,

                                   EdificioMinlsteriode Hacienday Credit0Pljbiico
                                                 Managua. Nicaragua
                                        Tel (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

                                                                                     Annex 1




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President,InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MHCP-DM-E-16072-12-03
Pag. 16



Conclusions

I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the Government's commitment
to the implementation of the Strengthened Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy and to maintain an adequate macroeconomic framework supported
under the PRGF.

On behalf of the Government of Nicaragua, I wish to thank the International
Development Association for the assistance it has providedto Nicaragua during
the last decade. This assistance has contributed to the reduction in poverty
observed since 1993.I trust that this request for additional assistancethrough the
proposed PRSC will receiveyour favorable consideration,

Yours sincerely,




                                     Eduardo MontealegreR.
                                           Ministerof Finance




                                   EdificioMinisteriode Hacienday Credit0Pljblico
                                                 Managua, Nlcaraguo
                                        Tei (505) 222-7061 - Fax (505) 222-3033

     Annex 2

                                         Nicaragua at a glance                                                              I0123103


                                                                        Latin
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   America   Low-
                                                           Nicaragua  &Carib. income     Development diamond'
 2002
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                  5.3    527    2,495                 Life expectancy
 GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              730   3,280      430
 GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                 3.8  1,727    1,072                        T


Average annual growth, 1996-02
 Population (`A)                                                  2.6     1.5     1.9
 Labor force (`A)                                                 3.8     2.2     2.3    GNi                                 Gross
                                                                                         per                                primary
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                   capita                           nroiiment
 Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)
 Urban population (`A of totalpopulation)                         57       76      30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  69       71      59                        I

 infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                         30      27       81
Child malnutrition (`A ofchildren under5)                         12        9                  Access to imDroved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)               79      86       76
Illiteracy (`A ofpopulation age 15+)                              33       11      37
Gross primary enrollment (`A of school-age population)           102     130       95          --Nicaragua

    Male                                                         100     131      103                - Low-income group
    Female                                                       103     128       87

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1982       1992    2001    2002
                                                                                          Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                     2 5        1.8     4.0     4.0
Gross domestic InvestmenffGDP                         18 8      20.9     32.1    32.1                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                     I 6 0      17.3    23.4    22.9
Gross domestic savings1GDP                             8 7        9.1     6.1     6.0
                                                                                                             T
Gross national savings/GDP                             2 2        4.2     9.7    10.7

Current account balance1GDP                          -22.1      -61.1   -24.1   -19 6
interest payments/GDP                                  4.4        2.0     6.2     3.2
Total debffGDP                                      119.6      628.8   160.6    162.6
Total debt servicelexports                           43.8        32.6    38.5    45.0
Present value of debffGDP
Present value of debffexports
                                                                                                        indebtedness
                                         1982-92 1992-02        2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         -2.6       5.3       3.0      1.o     3.0           --Nicaragua
GDP per capita                              -5.1       2.5       0.4     -1.5     0.6                    Low-income orow
Exports of goods and services               -1.o       8.7       8.7     -3.3     2.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1982       1992    2001    2002     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(`A of GDP)
Agriculture                                          21.5       29.7     17.7    18.0
industry                                             32.1       21.3    23.0     21.8
  Manufacturing                                      26.2        17.1    14.0    14.0    20
Services                                             46.4       49.0    59.3     60.2     0

Private consumption                                  67.9       95.4    76.1     78.0    20
General government consumption                       23.4        19.7    17.8    16.0
Imports of goods and services                        26.1       53.3    49.4     49.0


                                                  1982-92 1992-02       2001    2002     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                  '                                           1
                                                                                         40
Agriculture                                           -2.8       6.8      1.9    -0.4
Industry                                              -3.2       5.3      4.1    -0.6    30

  Manufacturing                                       -4.2       2.6      4.0     2.1    20

Services                                              -2.1       4.8      2.8     2.7    10

                                                                                         0
Private consumption                                    0.8     -11.4      2.4     4.1   .i0
General government consumption                        -5.7       2.7      2.6   -13.0
Gross domestic investment                             -7.0      11.8     -4.3     1.1
imports of goods and services                         -0.6      12.1      0.2    -0.5


Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.
`Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwiii
   be incomplete.

                                                                                                                        Page 1of 2

                                                                                                                 Nicaragua

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1982   1992      2007   2002
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    180

Consumer prices                             24.8    23.7       7.4     4.0     60
ImplicitGDP deflator                         16.7   23.7       3.8     5.2     40

Government finance                                                             20
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                0
Currentrevenue                                      21.o      14.2   14.9               97     96      99     W      01      02
Currentbudget balance                                -1 .a    -3.0    -1.9             e " W W
Overallsurplus/deficit                                                                                       *CPI
                                                     -7.8    -12.4    -8.7                     GDP deflator


TRADE
                                                                                                                              I
                                            1982   1992      2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                                   Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          409     223       593    596
  Coffee                                     124      45       103     73
  Lobster                                     22      21        77     76      f 5 W
  Manufactures                                69      52       158    191
Total imports(fob)                           775     855     1,648  1,620      1 ow

  Food                                       117     243      474
  Fueland energy                                                                 5w
                                             179     121      269
  Capitalgoods                               167     214      414     384     I    0

Export price index (1995=100)                                                         96     97          99         01
                                              75      63        55     56                         98          00

Import priceindex (1995=100)                  61      94       158    143                      Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    124      67       35      39

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982    1992      2001   2002      1 Current
(US$ miilions)                                                                         account balanceto GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                452     309      932     918        0
Importsof goods and sewices                  811     920     1,970  1,962        5
Resource balance                            -360   -611     -1,038 -1,044      -10

Net income                                                                     -15
                                            -183   -494      -326   -205       -20
Net current transfers                          0      i o     402     464      -25
Currentaccountbalance                       -543  -1,095     -962   -785       -30

                                                                               -35
Financingitems (net)                         453   1,090      792     834      40
Changes in net reserves                       90        5     170     -49
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)        179    179       383     454
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)         2.31E-9     5.0     13.4    14.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982    1992      2001   2002
{US$millionsj                                                                 1 Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt ouistandingand disbursed        2,936  11,273    6,408   6,510
  IBRD                                       129    104          0      0
  IDA                                        55     182       691    811    I              G: 990           8:811

Totaldebt service                           201     106       326     142
  IBRD                                        13      26         5      0
  IDA                                          0        1        3      2

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             41     370       342    321
  Officialcreditors                         231     243       247    197
  Privatecreditors                            :5      -2        -3     -3
  Foreigndirect investment                     0      15      132    218
  Portfolio equity                             0       0        0       0

World Bank program
 Commitments                                   0      i o     182     33       A . IBRD                         E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 -
  Disbursements                              20      74        63      72      B IDA
                                                                                  -       D Other multilateral
                                                                                             -                  F Private
                                                                                                                 -
  Principalrepayments                         6       16        6      0       C IMF
                                                                                  -                             G - Short-term
  Net flows                                  14      57        56     72
  Interest payments                           8       11        2      2
 Net transfers                                6      47        54     70


Development Economics                                                                                                10/23/03




                                                                                                                Page 2 of 2

    Annex 3


                                 Nicaragua Key Economic Indicators
                                               -

                                                          Actual            Estimate    (Projected Base Case Scenario)
                                                   1999    2000      2001    2002      2003     2004     2005     2006


Nationalaccounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                              100.0    100.0   100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0     100.0    100.0
  Net Indirect Taxes                                   8.6      8.4      8.6       8.2     7.8      7.9      7.9      7.9
  Agriculture                                         17.8     18.6     17.7     18.0    17.8      17.8     17.8     17.8
  Industry                                           24.6      24.7    26.0      25.0    24.9      24.9     24.9     24.9
  Services                                           49.0      48.3    47.7      48.8    49.5      49.4     49.4     49.4

Total Consumption                                    93.0      93.5    93.9      94.0    94.0      92.5     92.2     92.2
Gross domestic investment                            39.6      33.4    32.1      32.1    31.2      30.6     31.0     31.0
  Government investment                               9.1       7.3      8.5       6.8     7.7      8.2      8.0      8.0
  Private investment                                  30.5     26.1    23.6      25.3    23.5      22.4     23.0     23.0

E X ~ O ~ ~ S
        (GNFS)~                                      22.0      23.8    23.4      22.9    22.8      24.1     24.2     24.2
Imports (GNFS)                                       54.6      50.7    49.4      49.0    48.0      47.2     47.4     47.4

Gross domestic savings                                7.0       6.5      6.1       6.0     6.0      7.5      7.8      7.8
Gross national savings'                               8.9      10.8      9.7     10.7    12.6      15.4     15.0     11.6

Memorandum items:
Gross domestic product                               3746     3953    3991      4003    4100      4284     4477      4680
(US$ million at current prices)

GDP per capita (US$)                                  758       780     767       750     750      760       780      800
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)                    700       720     720       730     730      740       750      760

Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices              7.0       4.2      3.0       1.o     2.3      3.7      4.0      4.2
 Gross Domestic Income                                3.O       1.6     -0.5      -2.1     1.o      1.8      2.1      2.1

Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices              4.2       1.4      0.3      -1.6    -0.2      1.2      1.6      1.8
 Total consumption                                    1.8      -4.4     -6.8      -1.2    -0.3     -1.2      1.3      1.5
 Private consumption                                  0.6      -5.2     -2.2      -5.5    -0.1     -1.5      1.3      1.4

Balanceof Payments(US$)
 EXPOITS (GNFS)~                                      824      942      932       918     936     1034     1082      1131
   Merchandise FOB                                    536      645      593       596     596      651       684      716
 Imports (GNFS)~                                     2045     2006    1970       1962   1970      2023     2121      2216
   Merchandise FOB                                   1703     1648    1620       1636   1624      1669     1785      1868
 Resource balance                                   -1221    -1064   -1038     - 1044  -1034      -989    -1039     -1085
 Net current transfers                                396      400      402       464     507      541       550      600
 Other Current Transactions (net)                    -233     -267     -326      -205    -196     -204      -124      -53

 Current account balance (before oficial grants)    -1058     -931     -962      -785    -723     -652      -613     -538

 Net private foreign direct investment                300      265      132       218     192      157       165      165
 Long-term loans (net)                                106       49       40       -75      23       89        90       90
 Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)      729       596     620       691     493       426       388      313
 Change in reservesd                                  -77       21      170       -49      15      -20       -30      -30

Memorandum items:
Resource balance (% of GDP)                         -32.6    -26.9    -26.0    -26.1    -25.2    -23.1     -23.2    -23.2
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                  -28.2    -23.6    -24.1    -19.6    -17.6    -15.2     -13.7    -11.5
Net current transfers (% of GDP)                     10.6     10.1     10.1      11.6    12.4      12.6     12.3     12.8



                                                                                                        Page 1of 2

                      Nicaragua Key EconomicIndicators(continued)
                                        -

                                                         Actual          Estimate    (Projected Base Case Scenario)
                                                 1999     2000    2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006

Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                                   20.8    18.9     14.2     14.9    16.7      17.1     17.3      17.3
 Current expenditures                               18.8    17.1     17.2     16.8    15.9      12.7     12.8      12.8
 Capital expenditure (net of capital revenue)       15.9    12.8      9.4       6.8    7.7       8.1       8.0      7.8
 Overall Balance surplus (+) or deficit (-)        -13.9   -11.0    -12.4     -8.7    -6.9      -3.7      -3.5     -3.3

 Foreign financing (including grants)               18.2    12.4     11.0     12.4    12.3       9.5       9.0      9.0
    Grants                                            7.4    4.7      3.5       4.5    4.5       2.5       2.5      2.5

Monetary indicators
 Global Liquidity M3A/GDP                          43.7     40.2    42.1      44.8    47.5      50.3     53.4     56.6
 Growth of Monitary Base   (a)                      18.8    -0.5     23.5       7.6    9.2      10.3     11.0      11.0


Price indices( 1990 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index                    62.4     64.1     54.9     56.3    59.4      61.8     65.4     65.4
 Merchandise import price index                    140.6   164.4    157.7    142.6   142.6     141.8    141.8    141.8
 Merchandise terms of trade index                  44.4     39.0     34.8     39.5    41.7      43.6     46.2     46.2
 Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f                        1.6    8.8     -0.6     -7.9

 Consumer price index (average, % change)             9.0    7.4      7.4       4.0    5.2       5.2       4.7      4.0
 Consumer price index (end of year, % change)         7.2    6.6      4.7       4.0    6.0       5.0       4.5      4.0
 GDPdeflator (% change)                               9.0    8.8      3.8       5.2    6.1       6.0       4.7      4.0



a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. IMFdefinition.
d. Includes use of IMFresources.
e. Consolidated central govemment.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase inUS$/LCU denotesappreciation.




                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2

          Annex 4

                                    Nicaragua Statusof BankGroupOperations
                                                -
                                                 As of October 17,2003
                                                  OperationsPortfolio


  Closed projects: 45                                                                                      DifferenceBetween
Board                                                    Last PSR                                          w e d andActual
Date                                                Supervision Rating       OriqinalAnxxrnt in US$Millions   Disbursements'
                                                                                                                    ___

Fiscal                                          DeveloDment Iwlementatio                                                 FtTI
Year                 Active Projects             Obiectives     nPrcqress       IDA    GRANT       Undisb.     Orig.


1997 FYI41790 Atlantic Bidogical Corridor           S               S                       7.1         2.9      2.8     0.9
1998 Po35753 HealthSector II                        S               S          24.0                     5.2      5.2     0.0
1998 Po53705 TransportII                            S               S          47.4                     2.6      3.4     0.0
1999 w52080 Forestry                                S               S           9.0                     1.4      1.9     0.0
2OOO    Po50613 BasicEducationII                    S               U           52.5                  10.4     -42.1     0.0
2000 Po55853 T e l m . Reform                       S               S           15.9                    1.6      2.3
m m296 EconorricManagementTAC                                                                                            0.0
                                                    S               S          20.9                     2.7    -17.4
m Po56087 PensionandFinancialMarketTA                                                                                    0.0
                                                    U               U            8.0                    1.6     -5.3     1.6
2000 PO64915 Agr Tech & Rural Edu                   S               S          23.6                     8.6      8.1     0.0
2001 PO70016 Competitiveness LIL                    S               U           5.0                     3.7      2.6     0.0
2001 Po68673 RoadRehab& Maint                       S               S          75.0                  39.0      -42.8     0.0
2001 Po55823 Rural Wnicipalities II                 U               U          28.7                   16.2      19.9     0.0
2001 Po64916 NaturalDisasterVulnerability           S               S           13.5                  11.8       7.6     0.0
2001 Po64906 Poverty Red& LocalDev                  S               S          60.0                  50.1      49.3      0.0
2002 Po56018 LandAdministration                     S               S          32.6                  35.8        1.o     0.0
2003 PO73246 OffgridRural Electrification           S               S           12.0                  12.2       1.5     0.0

                                                                              428.1         7.1    205.8        -1.9     2.5


                                                        All Projects
                                                   IBRD            IDA         Total
                   Total Disbursed(IBRDand IDA):   229.6          825.8      1055.4
                         of which hasbeen repaid:  224.1           19.3       243.3

                Total nowheldby IBRDand IDA':       0.0          779.9        779.9



a. Intendeddisbursementstodate minusactual disbursementstodateas projectedat appraisal.
b. lndudingavaluationadjustment for $76,096.




                                                                                                    Page 1of 1

     Annex 5



            Ncaragua:statementuf I E sconrrittedandDisbursedPortfolio
                               As uf July31,2003
                                  (US$millions)




2001  BANMPO             5.0   0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0
m Finarca                1.4   0.6      0.0    0.0     1.4     0.0      0.0   0.0
1993  Fnrtan             0.4   0.4      0.0    0.0     0.4     0.6      0.0   0.0
1993  LaColonia          3.5   0.0      0.5    0.0     1.5     0.0      0.5   0.0
1993  SEFDiCqsa          0.8   0.0      0.0    0.0     0.8     0.0      0.0   0.0

      Total M d i o :    11.1  1.o      0.5    0.0     4.1     0.6      0.5   0.0




                                                                  Page 1of 1

Annex 6

                     POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT
                                          (PRSC)
               ANALYSIS OFENVIRONMENTAND SOCIALISSUES

Summaryof PRSCActivities

The reforms supported under the proposed Nicaragua PRSC aim to: (i)            increase the
efficiency of the public sector while improving its transparency and accountability, (ii)
improve the effectiveness and impact of public expenditure in a number o f key sectors
through better targeting and coordination and sector programs, and (iii)         strengthen
Nicaragua's prospects for investment and growth, especially among the poor. Indoing so,
the reforms will thus constitute an important step on three fronts. First, they will help
Nicaragua in its pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as goals
outlined under the PRSP. Second, they will ensure that Nicaragua continues its sound
macroeconomic management while ensuring that regional integration helps the country to
achieve its potential. Third, they will allow Nicaragua to continue its democratization
process in the shaping of an effective, transparent and responsive state. The reforms are
outlined in the Government of Nicaragua's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which has
broad ownership among civil society, the private sector and the donor community.

The proposed PRSC aims to support a selected subset of measures of the PRSP,
considered priorities to reduce poverty in Nicaragua that focus on three subject
areas,containedinthe four Pillarsof the PRSP:

            0   BuildingPublic Institutions and Governance (Pillars Iand rV)
            0   Human Capital of the Poor and Vulnerable Populations (Pillars lland 111)
            0   Growth and Competitiveness (Pillar I)

PRSC Iwould give greater emphasis to the first two areas, while PRSC IIwould
emphasize the last one. Inline with the PRSP, the proposed operation assumes that some
basic premises are in place which are considered essential for poverty reducing reforms
to have an impact on the lives of the poor: macroeconomic stability and the protection o f
poverty-related expenditures intimes o f crisis.

The Bank will use several lending and non-lending instruments to reinforce institutional
capacity to carry out the reform actions indicated in the PRSC policy matrix. The key
Bank Team Leaders of these investment credits, as part of the PRSC team and in
agreement with their respective government counterparts, have agreed to use these
projects to provide necessary financing and technical assistance to carry out the agreed
actions for the PRSC. Secondly, the EMTAC I1 project i s being prepared in close
coordination with the proposed PRSC and i s expected to include support for the priority
actions in the institutional building and governance area, as well as provide financing for
the implementation of agreed recommendations fo the CFAA and the CPAR. Lastly, the




                                                                                  Page 1of 8

 task team has applied for and obtained a borrower-executed PHRD grant, which the
 borrower will use to undertake prior actions for Board presentation.

 The appropriate treatment of environmental and social issues in PRSCs depends on their
 coverage and focus as outlined in the World Bank Operational Policy and Country
 Services Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits, May 31, 2001.
 Accordingly, staff review environmental policies and practices in the country, take
 account o f any relevant findings and recommendations of such reviews and identify
 positive and negative linkages between the various reforms proposed and the
 environment. If there are negative linkages, staff devise specific measures as appropriate
 to counteract the possible negative effects, or explain how mitigation i s otherwise being
 achieved. As this operation i s classified as a structural adjustment program, there are no
 operational policy requirements for an environmental assessment or other safeguard
policies.

The following analysis examines the way that a broad range o f environmental issues are
being addressed within the Bank's portfolio and links to these conditions under the
PRSC. It also provides an overview of the Government's activities in protecting the
environment. This i s important, since the environment and poverty are linked in two
major ways: (i)  poverty reduction programs should not damage the environment of the
poor, which would undermine outcomes in one area with losses in another, (ii)    improving
environmental conditions can help to reduce poverty and promote sustainable growth.
Finally, an overview of the consultation process around the PRSP i s provided.

Summary of Country Portfolio and EnvironmentalLinkages

In accordance with the Interim Guidelines (for PRSCs) and OD 8.60, the PRSC team
assessed the environmental linkages for each of the Bank's portfolio sector activities.
Most environmental policies and practices in the country are based on the Environmental
and Natural Resource Law enacted in 1996, administered by MARENA. A related legal
mandate (Ley 217) has numerous articles and subsequent instruments that provide for
specific regulation, protection, and enforcement. These legal instruments describe the
conditions under which an environmental assessment (EA) of development activities i s
required, and the procedures to be followed in preparing EA studies. Typically, the law
requires that any development activity that i s likely to generate significant negative
environmental impacts be subject to an environmental impact assessment, and that this
assessment be cleared by the MARENA. The law also requires public consultation to be
held with affected partieskommunities to discuss the potential impacts and their
mitigation. Other projects with less significant impacts require various levels o f
screening. All Bank projects in the country portfolio define how these provisions are to
be implemented by each executing agency or organization.

This assessment found that although Bank projects have well designed provisions at
preparation (evidence from ISDS and EA annexes), it was unclear how well each
implementing agency i s undertaking these provisions. In specific projects, environmental




                                                                                  Page 2 of 8

assessment has been incorporated into the regular subproject cycle and there i s regular
screening and follow up monitoring and audits (e.g., FISE).

Numerous investment projects in the country portfolio defined explicit provisions for
incorporating World Bank safeguards into the respective projects. These are listed and
highlighted intable 1, below.

Table 1: Projects Containing Environment and Social Components Complementing
PRSC Policy and Reform Actions




Forestry and             PAD EA Annex              Promote forest conservation within protected areas,
Agroforestry                                       improve forest management, reforestation on
Development Program      IPDP and Process          agriculture lands, payment for environmental
PROFORESTAL              Framework                 services, environmental monitoring provisions

'Sustainable Forestry    Adherence to new Forest
Investment Project       OP 4.36




Natural Disaster
Vulnerability            social safeguard summary  resettlement to reduce risk from natural disasters,
Reduction Project                                  watershed vulnerability studies with mitigation
                                                   provisions, revised national buildingcode
                                                   standards, FISEimplementation of local
                                                   vulnerability measuresfor subprojects, TORSfor
                                                  EIA for each subproject, exclusion of any Category
                                                  A subproject, negative lists, social and




                                                  their environmental capacity and environmentally
                        PAD Annex Social          beneficial subprojects - through the Municipal
                        Assessment                Environment Fund and administrative facility


1Oldprojects forestry sector closing 2003


                                                                                          Page 3 of 8

                                               (FAM), environmental criteria, screening and
                                               enforcement, no implementation of Category I11
                                               subprojects,




                     Analysis                  natural habitats, ,establishment of potential new
                                               protected areas, demarcation and titling of
                     PAD Annex Social          indigenous reserves on the Atlantic coast, monitor
                     Assessment                behavioral shifts in landholders as result of land
                                               titling, cadastre and registration, legalization and
                     PAD Annex Indigenous      demarcation of indigenous lands




The Bank i s supporting sustainable development directly by the Second Rural
Municipalities Project approved in FYO1, which seeks to improve the performance of
rural municipalities by building their capacity to provide local public infrastructure,
protect the environment and manage natural resources in a sustainable manner, and
promoting local economic development. In addition the Poverty Reduction and Local
Development Project, the continuation of the FISE programs, approved in FYO1 works
with communities (including indigenous) to empower them to participate in local
decision making and project execution so that investments best address their development
needs. A GEF-funded Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Project approved in FY97 also i s
contributing to these objectives by seeking to ensure environmentally sustainable land
use in the Atlantic Coast region through better land use and biodiversity planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and financial mechanisms to sustain the corridor.

    Environment and Natural Resources. The Bank continues to directly support
integrated natural resource and environmental management and protection through
                   I

several instruments. The Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Project i s described above, and the
Forestry and Agroforestry Development Program continues to focus on management
of the country's forest biomass in numerous sectors linking sustainable output, income
generation and land stewardship. All of the components of these projects contain
provisions to ensure sustainable use of resources, land and appropriate incorporation of
mitigation measures when environmental impacts are identified.



                                                                                         Page4 of 8

         Natural Disasters. The Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project i s
 promoting environmental protection of vulnerable natural resources, such as watersheds,
 and reducing risk from natural disasters. Measures include sound mitigation to ensure
 that physical structures meet construction standards with proper environmental
considerations. Attention i s focused on processes to assist vulnerable populations relocate
 from high risk settlements and conditions with proper policies for resettlement.

         Agriculture and Rural Development. Potential adverse impacts of the activities
under the Agriculture Technology and Rural Education Project are being minimized
through the promotion o f sustainable agriculture practices. Mitigating impacts from agro-
chemicals (including pesticides) occurs through improvement of agricultural technology,
research, and training. Numerous environmentally beneficial outcomes are associated
with introduction and expansion of cropping patterns and soil and water conservation
measures.

         Health Sector. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health
care waste (HCW) management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous
medical waste materials, including possible infection from HIV/AlDS through used
needles and blood waste and building health clinics and hospitals. The Health Sector
Modernization Project i s addressing the handling, storage and disposal of health care
waste (HCW) at all levels of the national health care delivery system.

         Water and Sanitation Sector. In the water and sanitation sector, the focus of the
PRSC operation i s to promote a Water and Sanitation Strategy, which i s the first time
that a sector wide strategy will be prepared. It i s not meant to lead to specific works
within a short term but will identify institutional responsibilities for the sector and will
recommend sector structural reforms and will touch on water resources management.
The development o f this strategy will result in benefits in terms of environmental
protection and improvement.

It is also expected that 3 management contracts would be approved as part of the PRSC,
one for operation of the Managua wastewater treatment plant, the second for the
provision of water and sanitation services to the city o f Matagalpa (population 165,000)
and the third for the provision of water and sanitation services to the city of Jinotega
(population 55,000). The Managua wastewater treatment plant has not yet been
designed, but it i s expected that once the authorizations to operate it under a contract with
a private operator would be granted, KfW will approve the financing for its construction.
After being constructed, a few years down the road (not before end 2006), it will reduce
the contamination discharge to Lake Managua. The design, construction and operation o f
the plant would take in account all the pertinent national legislation and the
environmental guidelines prescribed by KfW.

        Water and sanitation servicesfor Matagalpa and Jinotega: all the investments in
these cities have already been carried out under a KfW grant, including the construction
of a wastewater treatment plant. An EIA was carried out as part of the project design.



                                                                                   Page 5 of 8

 The PSP contract for Matagalpa i s a 5 year management contract, which does not include
 implementation of works.      The municipality i s in charge of expansion works. The
 operator needs to comply with all the environmental laws and regulations of Nicaragua.
The municipality (the employer of the operator), the entity for regulation of the water
 sector (INAA) and the Ministry of the Environment are responsible, among other things,
for monitoring the environmental performance of the operator. The tariffs that will be
used under the two management contracts (Matagalpa and Jinotega) have already been
 agreed upon with the stakeholders. Subsidized tariffs are used for poor customers, who
will be charged with a tariff of about 30% o f the tariff of regular customers.

         Energy. An Off-Grid Rural Electrification Project (FY03) will support the
sustainable provision of electricity services and associated social and economic benefits
in selected rural sites. With GEF support, it goes beyond providing traditional fossil fuel
supplies, providing incentives for PV options and other renewable energy provisions.

         Social and Indigenous Issues. The Indigenous Community Development
Component o f the Atlantic Biodivesity Corridor Project i s making satisfactory
progress. Many activities are part of a collaborative agreement with the Land
Administration Project(PRODEP) and in fact, the collaboration between the ABC and
PRODEP can be qualified as a case of best practice in the World Bank since it has
allowed both projects to implement a common program with the active participation of
the Regional Councils of the Atlantic Coast. Essentially, thejoint program has resulted in
support for CONADETI and the CIDTs, dissemination and training on the Indigenous
and Ethnic Communities Land Law (Ley 445), support for the legal recognition and
registration o f indigenous organizations, and support for diagnostic studies, conflict
resolution and other actions for the demarcation and titling of the lands of indigenous and
ethnic communities.

The Indigenous Land Demarcation Component o f the Land Administration Project i s
making important progress. In both Bosawas and Awas Tingni, the process of
recognizing the land rights of indigenous peoples i s fairly advanced. In the first case,
lands are ready for physical demarcation (amojonamiento) and then for titling and
registration. Inthe second case, a new diagnostic has been finalized and i s under revision
by PRODEP; after which the process should advance to the stage of conflict resolution,
before doing the physical demarcation. Some of the progress made i s part of the
collaboration CBA-PRODEP mentioned above. But, in addition, PRODEP has also
supported the preparation of manuals on the procedures for the land demarcation process
and training materials for capacity buildingon indigenous and ethnic community lands.

Inthe last few years, Nicaragua has made significant advances towards the recognition of
indigenous and ethnic communities rights to land and natural resources as demonstrated
by the passing of Law 445 and the initial implementation of land demarcation and titling
activities. At the same time, the indigenous and ethnic communities of the Atlantic Coast
of Nicaragua are receiving some important benefits from the above mentioned Bank-
financed projects, including technical assistance and training for participatory diagnostics
and planning, conflict resolution, community mapping and land demarcation. However,



                                                                                   Page 6 of 8

the process has not been finalized yet since the process of disseminating the new law and
 agreeing on it's implications both within government and multi-ethnic communities i s a
complex one, requiring the buildingof trust and consensus.

 CrossCuttingIssue EnvironmentalProtection
                      -

Like many other IDA countries Nicaragua prepared a NEAP in the early 1990's which
has been followed up with numerous World Bank, IF1 and bilateral donor technical
assistance covering most sectors and measures to improve the environmental regulatory
and management framework in the country. Most recently, the GON has promoted its
National Environmental Strategy, with principals covering sustainable economic
development, economic valuation, decentralization, environmental planning, protected
areas, environmental quality, environmental education, information management, science
and technology and natural disasters.

MARENAproduces the State of the Environment Report that highlightsthe issues related
to population and the environment, water resources, forests, biodiversity, coastal and
marine resources, protected areas, air quality, national policies, laws and international
conventions. Most important, a matrix of priorities of the Environment Policy and Action
Plan 2000-2005 (PANic) lists the objectives, actions and indicators for accomplishing
these targets. These agenda items also tie directly to the cross-cutting environmental
vulnerability (environmental protection) issues such as natural areas, impacts by humans
and natural disasters, identified in the GON PRSP. It lays out 16 areas where the
Government will take environmental actions, including the promotion o f a sustainable
development model, harmonizing legislation that affects the environment, developing a
national environmental information system, promoting environmental education,
developing ways to charge for pollution costs and ensuring the use of environmental
parameters in public projects to measures cost and benefits. Specific action priorities
encompass six areas: water, forestry, soils, solid and liquid waste, environmental
education and institutional coordination. Although most regions require environmental
attention, highest priority i s give to areas of Jinotega, Nueva Segovia, The North Atlantic
region (MAN), Chinandega, Esteli and Matagalpa.


PublicConsultation

 The preparation of the PRSP involved intensive consultations within the government,
and with civil society, stakeholders, and the poor. It also benefited from broad bilateral
and multilateral donor support during its preparation. Government initiated consultations
to mobilize domestic support for its policies, followed by a request for external support at
the April 1998 Consultative Group Meeting in Geneva. The consultation process was
intensified, partly at the urging o f civil society organizations, in the aftermath of
Hurricane Mitch, with the creation of six councils in late 1998 to assess the damage and
priority needs of the affected population, and to develop a reconstruction plan. This
culminated with the creation of the National Council for Social and Economic Planning
(CONPES) in early 1999, which became the primary channel of consultations between



                                                                                  Page 7 of 8

the government and civil society on social and economic strategy, and more recently for
preparation o f the PRSP.

In addition to the government at central and departmental levels, consultation included
the civil society, other stakeholders (private sector, labor unions, academics, ethnic
minorities, women's groups), and the poor. As part of this process, the National Advisory
Program for Public Policy Formulation (PRANAFP) was created to provide technical
support to CONPES, and the Participatory Consultations Methodology Program
(PROCONSULTA)          was   launched   to    support    local   consultations    at   the
departmental/municipal levels of government and a series o f focus groups with the poor
themselves.




                                                                                Page 8 of 8

Annex 7

                              I.BANK-FUNDRELATIONSNOTE


On December 4, 2002, the International Monetary Fund(IMF) approved in principle a three-
year arrangement for Nicaragua under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in
the amount of SDR 97.50 million (about US$129 million) to support the government's 2002-
05 economic program. The IMFBoard's decision became effective after the World Bank
Executive Board's review of Nicaragua's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) progress
report on December 10, 2002.

The PRGFi s the IMF's concessional facility for low-income countries. The PRGF-supported
programs are based on country-owned poverty reduction strategies adopted in a participatory
process involving civil society and development partners, and articulated in a PRSP. This i s
intended to ensure that PRGF-supportedprograms are consistent with a comprehensive
framework for macroeconomic, structural, and social policies to foster growth and reduce
poverty. PRGFloans carry an annual interest rate of 0.5 percent, and are repayable over 10
years with a 5 1/2-year grace period on principal payments.

Nicaragua was also granted inprinciple SDR 1.88 million (about US$2.5 million) in
additional interim assistance under the Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries (HIPC) Initiative.
The additional interim assistance will also becotne effective after the World Bank Board's
review of Nicaragua. Nicaragua reached the decision point under the HIPC Initiative in
December 2000 and i s expected to reach the completion point by the end of 2003.

On October 20,2003, the Executive Board of the InternationalMonetary Fundcompleted the
thirdreview of Nicaragua's performanceunderthe Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
(PRGF) arrangement that was approvedon December 4,2002. This decision enabled the
release of a further SDR 6.97 million (about US$9.9 million) to Nicaragua, which brings
total disbursements under the program to SDR 27.86 million (about US$39.8 million). The
fourth review i s scheduled for January 2004.

The Executive Board also approved Nicaragua's request for waivers of the nonobservance o f
performance criteria, as well as the request for additional interim assistance under the
Heavily IndebtedPoor Country (HIPC) Initiative through end-2003 o f SDR 664,664 (about
US$1 million).

Following the Executive Board's discussion on Nicaragua, Agustin Carstens, Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chair, said:

"Nicaragua's recent economic performance has been commendable. The authorities have
shown strong commitment to their economic program and, as a result, Nicaragua faces
improved prospects for growth, financial stability, and poverty reduction.




                                                                                     Page 1o f 3

"The authorities have recently adopted a strengthened growth strategy aimed at enhancing
Nicaragua's growth potential while preservingmacroeconomic stability. Continued fiscal
consolidation, coupled with debt relief and concessional lending, will be necessary to ensure
sustainable debt dynamics. The revised growth strategy seeks to raise public investment
financed b y concessional donor assistance. To be effective, the strategy must ensure that
public spending i s directed to high-quality projects.

"Important progress i s being made in strengthening Nicaragua's financial sector, and the
authorities have prepared an agenda for carrying this work forward in specific areas. The
completion o f the central banks asset recovery plan i s an important achievement. Key reform
priorities include granting legal protection to bank supervisors and central bank staff and the
authorities' plan to revise the legal framework in line with the Base1Core Principles.
Nicaragua's forthcoming participation inthe Financial Sector Assessment Program will help
identify the major remaining vulnerabilities and reform needs inthis area.

"Reaching the HIPC completion point by year's end i s an important goal for Nicaragua and
the authorities are makinggood progress toward that goal. It will make permanent the interim
debt relief that has been granted inrecent years, which i s a prerequisite for sustained rapid
growth and poverty reduction. Successful implementation of the PRGF-supportedprogram
has brought Nicaragua close to achieving this goal, although progress i s still needed inkey
areas to ensure that all trigger conditions are met. The broad domestic consensus on the
importance o f attaining the HIPC completion point has facilitated the implementation of
prudent macroeconomic policies, structural reforms, and better governance. It i s important
that this consensus on good economic policies be sustained for Nicaragua to reap the full
benefits o f HIPC debt relief," Mr.Carstens said.

          A. RecentBackgroundandProgramSummaryupto September 2003

A moderate recovery is underway, with continued low inflation. Real GDPgrowth in2003 is
projected at around 2Y2 percent (up from 1percent in 2002). On the supply side, most of the
growth comes from manufacturing, commerce, transport, and communications. On the
demand side, it i s supported mainly by private consumption and public investment. Credit to
the private sector has recoveredinrecent months, and formal sector employment has been
growing at an annual rate of 3 4 percent. The 12-month inflation rate was 6 percent in
November. NIRposition i s strengthening However, exports are expected to be flat this year,
due to shortfalls in gold production and sluggishexternal demand for key export products
(meat, sugar, and fishing products). Coffee i s slowly recovering, following last year's sharp
downturn in world prices.

The objective of the approved PRGF-supported program for 2002-05 i s to promote sustained
growth and povei-ty reduction, in an environment o f low inflation and fiscal sustainability.
The authorities' strategy for the remaining of the program i s to combine deficit reduction
with higher and more efficient poverty-related spending.




                                                                                      Page 2 o f 3

The fiscal program i s broadly on track. Data through September 2003 show better-than-
programmed results for the combined public sector's (CPS) overall deficit after grants
(2.0 percent of GDP, compared with 2.5 percent of GDP in the program),' savings, and net
domestic financing. A shortfall in central government tax revenues (0.2 percent o f GDP) was
more than offset by a lower quasi-fiscal deficit in the central bank. Further progress has been
made inrestructuring the domestic public debt. The three largest holders o f bank resolution
bonds (BRB) agreed to restructure US$320 million of debt falling due in2003-04.2

Poverty indicators have improved inrecent years. Between 1998 and 2001, the number of
poor dropped from 47.9 percent to 45.8 percent of the population, while the share o f
extremely poor fell from 17.3 percent to 15.1 percent of the population. The improvement
took place inboth rural and urban settings and across much of the country. The exception
was the rural central region, where poverty increa~ed.~Despite these improvements,
Nicaragua does not compare favorably to other countries inthe region, with most social
indicators worse than the regional average.

Nicaraguajoined the IMFon March 14, 1946; its quota i s SDR 130 million. Its outstanding
use o f IMFfinancing currently totals SDR 145.5 million as of October 31, 2003.



IMFContact name: Mr.Sergio Martin




'Duringthis    period, the CPS deficit before grants was 5.8 percent of GDP, compared with
6.4 percent of GDP inthe program.

 Agreements with the two largest bondholders refinanced US$280 million o f debt payments
falling due in 2004 over 10years, with semi-annual payments and an average annual interest
rate o f 8.4 percent. The third agreement restructuredUS$40 million falling due inDecember
2003 over three years, with semi-annual payments at an annual rate of 7.4 percent. The
previous interest rate on these bonds was 11-21 percent.

 This region was particularly hard hitby the coffee crisis.




                                                                                    Page 3 o f 3




