Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6605-HR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$17.0 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kuna (as of June 1994)
Prior to June 1994, the Croatian Dinar was the official currency unit of Croatia.
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Kunas per US$1
Jan 93 (equiv.)   Jul 93 (equiv.)  Jan 94 (equiv.)    Jun 94     Jan 95      Dec 95
0.87             3.53             6.60          6.07         5.38         5.31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APAU    Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit
ARC    Agriculture Research Council
ARF    Agriculture Research Fund
CLSC    Croatian Livestock Selection Center
CMEA    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EA    Environmental Analysis
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization
GATT    General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GOC    Government of Croatia
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IFC    International Finance Corporation
LRP    Level Repayment of Principles
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NSA    National Seed Authority
NVI   National Veterinary Institute
MAF    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOST    Ministry of Science and Technology
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
TA    Technical Assistance
ZESC    Zupanija Extension Service Centers
ZRECU    Zonal Research-Extension Coordination Unit
CROATIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Croatia
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Beneficiary:             Private Farmers
Poverty Category:        not applicable
Amount:                   US$17.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the level
repayment of principles (LRP), at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          (US$ Thousands)
LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
Government             13,000         -   13,000
IBRD                        -   17,000    17,000
Total                  13,000   17,000    30,000
Economic Rate of Return:   28 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   14398 HR
Map:                     IBRD 27609
Project ID Number:        8335
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Croatia for the equivalent of US$17.0 million to help finance a project for the
development of support services to the private farming community. The loan would be at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of seventeen years, including five years of grace.
Country/Sector Background
2.    The economy of Croatia depends to a significant extent on agriculture which contributes roughly
15 percent of GNP (some 24 percent including the agro-processing industries), and employs around 15
percent of the work force. Some 41 percent of the population lives in rural areas. As other sectors of
the economy, agriculture has been seriously affected by the present unfavorable external environment.
After losing agricultural export markets in the CMEA (1990) and the former Yugoslav federation (1991),
the sector was subject to another round of adverse shocks due to the hostilities in the region in which
Croatia lost control over a quarter of some of its best arable land.
3.    As an inheritance from the former Yugoslav federation, social sector agrokombinats and public
agro-processing enterprises holding mostly regional monopolies dominated the agriculture sector. They
also provided seasonal inputs, related short-term credit and extension services to private farmers and
largely controlled output marketing. While cultivating 37 percent of agriculture land (22 percent of arable
land), agrokombinats and cooperatives produced about 58 percent of total marketed agricultural
production, while substantial subsistence production takes place on private farms. Social sector farms
are specialized in grain, industrial crops, and large-scale poultry production. In contrast, Croatia's
500,000 family farms which own some 63 percent of agriculture land (78 percent of total arable land),
have been clearly discriminated against by previous regimes. They use outdated production methods and
technology, with little access to applied research results, extension advice and other farm services
resulting in their production to decline over the years. Agrarian policy, under the social ownership system
in former Yugoslavia, was not, however, as rigidly collectivist as in countries under central planning.
With average holdings of 2.8 ha per farm, often fragmented into several plots, private farmers generate
an important share of the overall animal, and horticultural production.
4.    Through its "Agriculture Policy Strategy" approved by Parliament in March 1995, the
Government of Croatia (GOC) has made a clear commitment to promote the development of private
farming within the framework of a market economy. The objective is to promote efficiency in production
and marketing, and ensure competitiveness of the agriculture sector on world markets. The aim is also
to overcome the legacy of large scale kombinats by giving emphasis to the development of private family
farms. This would be achieved by further limiting the system of (already reduced) direct support to
agriculture production from the budget, strictly limiting the commodities for which some support may
be provided; converting to tariffs the remaining import quotas; and reduction of tariffs under GATT's
developing country status. Policy actions will also include further privatization of social sector farms and
state-owned land and of publicly owned agroprocessing enterprises; improvement of rural financial
services on a sustainable basis using both commercial banks and public institutions; development of farm
support services; reconstruction of war damaged areas, and restructuring of the agriculture pension fund.



-2 -
Project Objectives
5.    The project would support the GOC's agricultural policy by providing technology-related support
services that are relevant to the private farmers. The aim is to improve the income of the private farming
community and increase its productivity and hence the competitiveness of the sector. The project would
(i) change the delivery of technical services to the private farming community and (ii) restructure and
strengthen institutions to meet the needs of a market economy.
Project Description
6.    The proposed project consists of six components: (i) Extension (24 percent of total costs), (ii)
Research (27 percent), (iii) Animal Health (20 percent), (iv) Pasture and Fodder Development (8 percent),
(v) Seed Industry Development (13 percent), and (vi) Policy Analysis Support (8 percent).
7.     The project would:
(i) modernize agriculture practices and farm management through extension and applied research
ensuring farmers' participation in these services. Extension would be supported through the
provision of public and private sector extension. The component would include (a) a
comprehensive training program and equipment to the existing county level extension offices
(which would be guided by farmer advisory councils) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF); (b) the formation on a pilot scale of some 45 farmers associations who
would hire private advisors on a cost sharing basis with MAF; (c) the development of 25
extension training packages which would be used for mass media based extension; (d) an on-
farm trial and demonstration program to be linked to the applied research supported under
the project; and (e) the introduction of farmer based milk recording on a pilot scale;
(ii) improve applied agriculture research management through the establishment of an Agriculture
Research Council (ARC), with majority representation of the private farming community.
The ARC would define the applied agriculture research program and allocate resources for
research contracts through an Agriculture Research Fund (ARF) to be established by the
project (some US$5.2 million) on a competitive grant basis. The project would establish four
small zonal research-extension coordination units (ZRECU); and a training program for
researchers working on applied agriculture issues;
(iii) strengthen public and private veterinary services. The National Veterinary Institute (NVI) and
its four regional branches would receive vehicles and a comprehensive range of analytical
equipment to intensify the national disease surveillance, complemented by improved border
quarantine posts. NVI national and regional animal health data bases would be linked to
MAF's epidemiological and disease reporting division which would receive computer
equipment and technical assistance. The managerial skills of private and public veterinarians
would be improved through training;
(iv) assist in the development of the country's underutilized grassland and pasture potential (which
represents some 40 percent of agriculture land). Measures would include: a systematic
evaluation of the national grassland resources; improvement of the laboratory and training
facilities of a pasture research station; local and overseas training; laboratory and field
experimental equipment for pasture trials and demonstrations; and the establishment of a
modest seed bank;



-3-
(v) provide the regulatory framework for the seed industry. MAF would establish a National
Seed Authority (NSA), with legislated responsibility to regulate the seed and agro-chemical
markets, in which several institutions would be joined under one coordinated framework. The
NSA would be supplied with laboratory and field equipment for seed variety trials and
certification, plant pathology, and chemical registration; and NSA staff would also receive
overseas training; and
(vi) improve MAF's policy analysis and formulation capabilities. Overseas training, long term
TA, selected policy studies, and computer equipment would be financed; and the agriculture
data base available to policy decision-makers would be strengthened through a farm baseline
survey, a farm monitoring program and a simple market information system.
Project Implementation
8.    The project would be implemented over a period of four years (mid-CY1996 to mid-CY2000)
after a period of intensive pre-project activities during CY95 and CY96 financed under a Japanese Grant.
Prior to project effectiveness major packages for procurement during the first year of implementation
would be compiled. MAF would take overall responsibility for project implementation, and direct
responsibility for the implementation of the agricultural extension and applied research components, for
the policy analysis support component, and for the veterinary epidemiological activities.
9.    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within MAF. The PIU would be
responsible for overall project implementation and coordination. MAF has assigned two Deputy Ministers
as the project manager and the deputy project manager, respectively. MAF has also hired an
implementation officer for the PIU who would be responsible for the day-to-day management of the PIU
on a full-time basis. In addition, MAF would assign a full time procurement staff, a financial officer, and
an administrative assistant to the PIU.
10.   Extension. The Deputy Minister Extension would implement the agricultural extension program.
The extension service would operate 21 Zupanija (i.e. district) Extension Service Centers (ZESC) under
the supervision of MAF. The ZESCs are staffed with 4 to 5 extension specialists in each of the 21
districts (zupanija). They would work through and support the creation of farmer groups, private
consultants and agro-industry and conduct on-farm demonstrations and mass media communications. The
ZESCs would be guided by local Advisory Committees with a broad representation of private farmers
at the district level.
11.   Some 45 local farmers associations (of which roughly half are established) would be supported
through the project on a pilot basis with the view of developing private sector advisory services. Local
farmers associations interested to employ private advisors would be eligible for project grant funds
through MAF on a matching basis to pay for the salary of the advisor. In addition, roughly 40 groups
would be established under the farmer-based milk recording scheme in three Zupanija by the Croatian
Livestock Selection Center (CLSC).
12.   A substantial extension training program amounting to a total of some 462 months includes: (i)
a trainers program; (ii) a one-time general orientation course for each extension staff; (iii) regular and
(iv) specialized in-service training. In addition, study tours and post-graduate fellowships for selected
experts would provide a better understanding of extension issues and operations in other countries.



- 4 -
13.   Research. The Deputy Minister Agriculture would coordinate the establishment of the Agriculture
Research Council (ARC) and provide guidance to the ARC during project implementation. The ARC
would consist of a majority of farmer representatives (9 farmer members nominated from each of the nine
agriculture regions). The ARC, responsible for the allocation of the national applied agriculture research
budget under the ARF through research contracts would be independent of MAF in its budgetary and
operational decisions, but answerable to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. The establishment of
the ARC as well as the formulation of the operating procedures would take place prior to component
disbursement with technical assistance funded under the Japanese Grant. The ARC would invite the
scientific community (both public and private sector) on the basis of publicly announced Terms of
Reference, to submit research proposals to the Council resulting in contracts for applied research to be
demand driven.
14.   The Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) would carry out the technical and scientific
review (involving national and foreign reviewers) of research proposals submitted by the research
community on invitation of the ARC and would submit to the ARC short lists of proposals in the
respective areas of applied research for decision making. MOST would administer, supervise (including
on-site supervision) and audit the research contracts. The ARC would be assisted by a small (two) person
secretariat which would organize the ARC meetings, issue the requests for research proposals and carry
out on-site supervision. Applied agriculture research contracts would be funded on a competitive grant
basis through an Agriculture Research Fund. In order to ensure that both regional and national research
priorities are being addressed a funding formula would be agreed upon by the ARC, and acceptable to
the Bank, for a period not shorter than three years, which would allocate funds to the main agriculture
regions (based on the relative contribution to agriculture GDP). Research-Extension-Farmer linkages
would be strengthened through invitations for applied research proposals which would request a concept
by the bidder on how the research results would reach the extension services and farmers; this concept
would be part of the overall proposal evaluation; and through field trials and demonstrations which would
be linked to the research contracts in order to ensure on-farm experimentation.
15.   Animal Health: The animal health program would be managed by MAF's Veterinary Department
with diagnostic work under the responsibility of the NVI. Pasture and Fodder Development: The
Department of Grassland and Forage Development, Agriculture Faculty, Zagreb University would manage
the grassland program. Seed Industry Development: MAF's Agriculture Department, would establish the
National Seed Authority (NSA) which would subsequently administer the national seed industry quality
control and regulatory policy, as well as agro-chemical registration. Policy Analysis Support: MAF's
Policy Department would be responsible for restructuring its Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit, hiring the
required additional staff, contracting selected policy studies, and for establishing the market information
system. The one-time farm baseline survey and the annual farm monitoring exercises would be carried
out by the Institute of Agriculture Economics, University of Zagreb.
Project Sustainability
16.   The project aims to increase the efficiency of key support services in agriculture and to limiting
Government's fiscal role in the sector. Annual incremental recurrent costs associated with the project at
full development amount to an estimated US$2.3 million or some 2 percent of MAF's current annual
budget. Overall allocations for the services supported under the project are currently very low (less then
8 percent of MAF's annual budget) and the efficiency of the overall budgetary resources allocated to
agricultural services is expected to increase through the project. Private provision of advisory services
to farmer groups under the project's cost sharing pilot scheme would become self-financing in due course.
In order to ensure financial sustainability of the Agriculture Research Fund, MAF is committed to



-5 -
introducing in the course of project implementation modest commodity based levies to be paid by the
producer, once the overall concept has gained credibility within the farming conmmunity. This credibility
is largely a function of the relevance and quality of the applied research and the associated independence
of the ARC. The project includes technical assistance to review the funding of the Agriculture Research
Fund and make recommendations for the possible introduction of commodity based levies after project
mid-term review. Clinical veterinary services which have been privatized are also becoming financially
self-sufficient. The National Seed Authority, which would streamline several existing government
institutions dealing with seed regulation, is anticipated to cover operating costs from fees charged on plant
variety testing and registration. The Market Information System to be introduced is also anticipated to
generate earnings through the sale of market intelligence in the medium term.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
17.   The proposed project would be the first Bank supported stand-alone operation in the country's
agriculture sector since the break-up of the former Yugoslav federation.  Under the Emergency
Reconstruction Project funds are being provided to replace agricultural assets destroyed by recent war
activities. In the course of implementing the Emergency Reconstruction Project, MAF has acquired
valuable experience in handling procurement procedures, an issue that has proven difficult to resolve in
earlier projects as raised in OED reports.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
18.   Private sector development is the focal point of the Bank's assistance to Croatia, and is a key
element in the development of the agriculture sector. The proposed project would support the reform
agenda outlined in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed on April 20, 1995, by fostering
private sector led growth in agriculture. The project would help Government establish essential public
and private services to support the development of a private, mostly family-based agriculture sector.
Other relevant issues, such as privatization of former social sector farms and state-owned land, and trade
and price policies are being handled under a proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan operation,
currently under preparation. A proposed Rural Finance Pilot Project would support rural investments by
facilitating farmers' links with the national financial network. The project is, therefore, one important
element of a broader assistance strategy to the agriculture sector in Croatia, the combined effect of which
would lead the way to a market-based, largely privately owned and operated agriculture sector in
Croatia's reformed economy.
Agreed Actions
19.   Govermment has carried out the following activities in fulfillment of agreed Conditions of Board
Presentation:
*  Agriculture Research Component: MAF has established the ARC, including the nomination
of the chairperson and a core council; in addition, MAF has identified the secretary of the
ARC who will be appointed upon Loan effectiveness;
*  Animal Health Legislation: MAF has carried out a review of draft veterinary legislation
through an international institution acceptable to the Bank and has presented the draft law to
Parliament;



Implementation Preparation: In addition to nominating the project manager and his deputy,
and to hiring an implementation advisor on a full time basis, MAF has appointed a
procurement staff to the PIU, and has identified a suitable financial officer, and an
administrative assistant which will be appointed to the PIU on a full time basis upon Loan
effectiveness.
20.    Conditions of Disbursement for specific subcomponents consist of:
Agriculture Research: (i) MAF would have worked-out jointly with MOST and ARC operational
guidelines (including a funding formula) satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) MAF would have
established the full ARC Council; and
Seed Industry Development: Government would have enacted new seed legislation reviewed by
international institutions acceptable to the Bank, and MAF would have (i) established the National
Seed Authority (NSA), (ii) appointed a director satisfactory to the Bank and (iii) obtained suitable
locations for setting-up core NSA infrastructure.
21.   No Conditions of Effectiveness other than the standard ones apply to this loan.
22.   The following covenants have been agreed upon during negotiations and are reflected in the Loan
Agreement:
*  Recruitment of key consultants (i.e. the extension specialists, the research management
specialist, the veterinary epidemiologist, the pasture/livestock economist, the seed certification
specialist, and the long term policy specialist) at the latest by October 31, 1996;
*  Review of financial arrangements of the Agriculture Research Fund (including the possibility
to introduce modest commodity-based levies) not later than April 30, 1999;
e  Establishment of Zonal Research Extension Coordination Units (ZRECU): The first of four
ZRECUs would be established by MAF not later than October 31, 1997, and the three
remaining ZRECUs would be established at the latest by October 31, 1998;
*  Monitoring of project implementation on the basis of agreed indicators;
*  Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit: MAF would staff the APAU with four additional policy
analysts at the latest by October 31, 1996; and the Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit would
exchange views annually with the Bank on its work program;
*  Conversion of all remaining import quotas to tariffs for seed trade at the latest by October
31, 1997
*  Preparation of a schedule on cost recovery for the NSA at the latest six months after
establishment of the NSA for the Bank's review;
*  MAF would develop environmental guidelines for its extension service on the use of agro-
chemicals in order to orient private farmers on the safe and sustainable use of such agents,
at the latest by April 30, 1997;



-7 -
*  Project Mid-term Review: A project mid-term review would be carried out jointly by MAF
and the Bank at the latest by April 30, 1998; and
*  Authorized allocations under the Special Account, project accounts and reporting
requirements.
Poverty Category
23.   This project does not have an explicit poverty focus and is, therefore, not rated in the "Poverty
Category: Program for Targeted Interventions". Nevertheless, the project would contribute to improving
living standards in rural areas in which small-scale agriculture is a major employer and source of income.
Environmental Aspects
24.   The project has been placed in the environmental Category B. An Environmental Analysis (EA)
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank has been carried out by an independent commission
appointed by MAF. The EA concludes that (i) no significant negative environmental impacts associated
with project implementation are to be expected; (ii) while private agriculture production is likely to
intensify albeit from a low base, the intensity of the social sector production is likely to decrease; and
(iii) by the nature of the various project activities, in particular extension and applied research,
agricultural practices would become environmentally safer. Indeed, the EA underlines that project
implementation would act as a catalyst to the further development of environmental legislation and
improved enforcement. Registration of agrochemicals and better Integrated Pest Management would be
improved under the project. To support the concept of sustainable agriculture and appropriate handling
of agrochemicals, the EA recommends and the Borrower has agreed under a dated covenant to the Loan
Agreement, that MAF develop environmental ('best practice') guidelines for its extension service. These
guidelines would inter alia give orientation to farmers on the safe and proper use of agro-chemicals.
Program Objective Categories
25.   The project's focus on private farming development, rates it in the "Private Sector Development"
category.
Participatory Approach
26.   Significant efforts were made during preparation and appraisal to consult and include
recommendations of stakeholder in the design of this operation. Separate workshops were conducted on
agriculture extension and research, respectively, bringing together representatives from the farming,
extension and research community. In addition, project design gives farmer participation during
implementation high priority. In the case of extension, farmers will guide the public service at the district
level through advisory committees, and hire private advisors to farmer associations on a cost sharing
basis. In the case of agriculture research, the farmer dominated ARC will ensure research policy and
funding allocation in line with research and extension priorities of the farming community in the country.
Project Benefits
27.   Private farmers will be the principal beneficiaries, deriving advantage from improved production
technology and animal health services, and a strengthened regulatory framework for the seeds industry
and from government policies and services more conducive to the development of a vigorous private



- 8 -
agricultural sector. The project would contribute to improving living standards in rural areas in which
small-scale agriculture is a major employer and source of income. The investment will also generate
substantial public benefits: disease control and livestock product sanitary inspection will improve, and
improved agricultural production and policy is likely to lead to better resource utilization. The many
institutional reforms initiated under the project would lead to improved support services that are
accountable to the farming community, and in which farmers would have ownership.
28.   Quantifying the incremental impact of the broad range of project activities which to a large extent
are of an institutional development nature is notoriously difficult due to the numerous non-service factors
influencing decision-making at the farm level. General research indicates that economic returns to
investments in agriculture research and extension as well as in other services can be very high. As an
approximation, indicative financial and economic farm models have been prepared to assess the likely
impact of project activities at the farm level across the main agro-ecological zones and representing major
production systems in the country. The indicative models reflect changes which are likely to occur on
farms which are exposed to more focused extension services and have access to improved management
advice, seed, livestock and other inputs.
29.   A conservative estimate of incremental net economic benefits yields an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 28 percent. Project incremental benefits are based only on the economic farm returns as
identified under the indicative models mentioned above; other potential benefits (such as export losses
avoided through improved animal disease control or increased seed export revenues through an improved
seed regulatory framework) have not been quantified. It is assumed that incremental benefits would occur
with only 5 percent of the farming community (i.e. 25,000 out of 500,00 farmers) and that benefits would
set-in only in the sixth year of a ten year time horizon (albeit benefits are expected to accrue well beyond
the tenth year and a considerably larger share of the farming community can be expected to benefit from
the project). Incremental project investment (including replacement) as well as recurrent costs have been
included net of taxes and duties (i.e. net of transfer payments).
30.   Sensitivity analysis carried out on the base case ERR indicates that returns on this project are
robust. For instance, a simultaneous increase of project costs and decrease of benefits by 20 percent,
respectively results in an ERR of 15 percent (22 percent and 20 percent if costs and benefits, respectively,
are varied in isolation).
Risks
31.   The potential resistance at the operational level by the various Government institutions and
services involved in the project to give up traditional influence and responsibilities following their
reorganization is a risk associated with the project. This would be addressed through a substantial training
program for the staff of these institutions with a focus on farm community participation and on the
rationale for the changes introduced under the project. Associated to this is the risk of a slow
establishment of an Agriculture Research Council and a National Seed Authority. This is being addressed
through considerable technical assistance provided both during pre-project start-up using Japanese grant
funds, and during early project implementation to work out procedures and to assist these nascent
institutions. A second risk lies in the number and size of procurement contracts to be implemented during
the first project years; to mitigate, a procurement specialist has been hired to compile the major packages
to be procured during the first project year. A third risk during implementation stems from limited farmer
capacity to form and support private associations, and the potential limitations of extension and research
staff to evolve with the market economy. This risk will be counteracted by project activities which will
focus technology development on efficiency increases, improved farm management practices and product



- 9 -
diversification; the assurance of unequivocal Government support to farmer associations and farmer
guided extension and research services; and a focus of project design on farm community participation.
Recommendation
32.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments: Schedules A - D
Washington, D.C., February 23, 1996






- 11 -                                      SCHEDULE A
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FiNANCING PLAN
Estimated Project Cost
(US$ Thousands)
Components                             Local     Foreign      Total
Agriculture Extension                 3,328       2,947      6,275
Agriculture Research                  2,455       4,558      7,013
Animal Health                          1,736      3,611      5,347
Pasture and Fodder Development          874       1,202      2,076
Seed Industry Development              1,967      1,433      3,400
Policy Analysis Support                 937       1,156      2,093
Project Implementation Unit             206         116        322
Total Base Cost                       11,503     15,023     26,526
Contingencies:
Physical                              929       1,353      2,282
Price                                 568        624       1,192
Total Project Cost                    13,000     17,000     30,000
Financing Plan
(US$ Thousands)
LocAL     FOREIGN     ToTAL
Government                  13,000        -       13,000
IBRD                          -        17,000     17,000
Total                       13,000     17,000      30,000



SCHEDULE B                                               -12 -
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Arrangements
(000 US$)
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure                      ICB             NCB           Other          NBF       Total
Goods                                        7,437           562   (a)      307    (c)              8,306
(6,193)         (472)         (284)                    (6,949)
Civil Works                                                  904   (b)      56      (d)              960
(796)          (49)                    (845)
Consulting Services and Studies                                            3,713   (e)              3,713
(2,441)                 (2,441)
Training                                                                   4,351    (f)             4,351
(2,610)                 (2,610)
Agriculture Research                                                       5,194   (g)              5,194
(4,155)                 (4,155)
Incremental Recurrent Cost                                                                7,476     7,476
()        ()
Total                                        7,437          1,466         13,621          7,476     30,000
(6,193)        (1,268)        (9,539)          (-)     17,000
NBF: Non-Bank financed.
Note:Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
(a)National competitive bidding: (aggregate amount financed US$0.47 million) for office furniture (two contracts)
(b)National competitive bidding: One civil works contractfor the rehabilitation of the Sljeme Pasture Research Station and
the construction of the Pasture Laboratory and Training Facility at said station; (aggregate amount financed US$796, 000)
(c)National shopping: (aggregate amountfinanced $0.28 million) audio-visual equipment, small-scale irrigation equipment,
and herd recording equipment.
(d)National shopping: (aggregate amount financed US$0.049 million) for a single civil works contract for establishment of
small genebank.
(e)Consultant services (aggregate amountfinanced US$ 1.68 million) for advisors, national and international experts (in part
to prepare local training courses and curricula), and policy studies to be engaged in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. Consulting services to be grouped into six major contracts.
National advisors to be hired individually by farmer associations (aggregate amountfinanced US$0.76 million); total of 45
advisory contracts to be concluded.
fTraining, at home and abroad, and fellowships (aggregate amount financed US$1.9 million). Local in-service training for
extension service staff, research staff, veterinary institute staff, carried out by MAF, ARC, NAVI, NSA partially in conjunction
with above consulting services; includes development of farmer based herd recording through CLSC.
Direct purchasing (aggregate amount financed US$0.340 million) of specialized research and extension publications and
journals (ranging from US$20 - 250).
National shopping (aggregate amount financed US$0.37 million) for the publication of a farm management handbook; a
veterinary journal; and extension mass media packages (some 30 contracts up to US$30,000).
(g)Competitive Grant Research: (aggregate amountfinanced US$4.2 million) for applied agriculture research contracts
awarded to national qualified research organizations based on research TORs established by ARC, research proposals
submitted by research organizations, evaluations carried out by independent research review panel (some 50 research
contracts ranging from US$50,000 to 150,000).



- 13 -                                      SCHEDULE B
Disbursement Categories
(US$ Thousands)
Percentage of
Amount    Expenditures to be
Financed al
1. Civil Works                           750            90%
2. Goods                                6,700    100%    of  foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); 85% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally.
3. Consulting Services and Studies      2,000            70%
4. Training                             2,300            55%
5. Agricultural Research Contracts      3,800            80%
Unallocated                             1,450
Total                  17,000
a - net of taxes and duties
Estimated Disbursements (IBRD loan only)
(US$ Thousands)
Fiscal Year      1996    1997    1998    1999       2000      2001
Annual           350    2,300    3,700    4,700    4,250    1,700
Cumulative       350    2,650    6,350   11,050   15,300   17,000



SCHEDULE C                                        - 14 -
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare project .16 months (June 1993 - October 1994)
(b) Prepared by .FAO Investment Center
(c) First Bank Mission .October/November 1994
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure .March 1995
(e) Negotiations Completed .October 5, 1995
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness .May 1996
1/ Preparation work was interrupted due to military conflict affecting Croatia during 1993



- 15 -                                              SCHEDULE D
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a
(As of December 31, 1995)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                            (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year          Borrower                       Proiect                            Loan    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans benefitting entities located in Croatia b'                          359.0
Of Which: SALs, SECALs and Program Loans
Loans Under Disbursement:
3069-0    1989       Istarski Vod. Buzet  Istria Water Supply Project                      28.0         16.5
3760-0    1994       Republic of Croatia   Emergency Reconstruction Loan                   128.0        81.4
3843-0    1995       Republic of Croatia   Health Project                                  40.0         37.7
3869-0    1995       Republic of Croatia   Highway Sector Project                          80.0         80.0
Total                                           635.0
Of Which: Repaid                           314.1
Total Now Held by the Bank                      320.9
Total Amount Sold                                 0.1
Of Which: Repaid                             0.1
Total Undisbursed                                           215.6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1995)
There are no outstanding IFC commitments
February 14, 1996
a/   The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/   Represents Croatia's portion of loans made to the former Yugoslavia which were not fully repaid as of December 31, 1992.






!BRD 27609
A U S T R I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~,. S   S
AUSTRIA                                ..~-.--'-                         - 
rJ                                                                                                                                                                                                  C_._.r        HUNG R   Yc R A T I A
FARMER SUPPORT
> 5*  ., , <5?DINsKAntt                                                                                                          SERVICES PROJECT
j                                            ?  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGORSKA  KW IZVCA   <                                                     _
S  L 0   V   E    IiA                                   ZAGR                        0__                                                                                      ) ZUPANIJA EXTtENSION SERVICE CENTERS (EC
L  O  E  N  I A . r                                                                                          >                             A   ZAGEA   0  - _  .ONAL RESEARCH EXTENSION COCRDINATION UNITS IZRECUI
O,,,,.k |  |   <_,<  -     f                    -     REGIONAL VETERINARY CENTERS
.y\ °                                                                                                                                                                                4   PASTURE jAN NDE RESEARCH STATION
wR1.GR5KO-                                          0r%;
~           ORMLKA                                                                               JZTKOSLAOE4KA                                          -                                NATIONAL SEES AUTHORiTy
P-E  I 3A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEU)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RDTRAILS SUBCENTEES
0U00                    OERl.k.                                   IAn      O~A
S5TARSKA                                                                                                                                              I0 MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM MONITORED MARKETS
-REGION BOUNEARIES
-.       ~                                         AJOR TOWNS
JCKO  9  A  e XY          -  - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\NINSA JRrUSENJSKA                                                                                                                                                                 -
\   /   -  =S.  Z0NINRSSKKAO K \ -   LAMA \ RUSS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARA                                                                                   RSLM
\INMARK                          '|      .                   FED
\   JX   )   <                                                                              MbuM                    S                       j                     S.~~~~~~~~~~~~eo) 
' '3                                                            BO SN IA /ANDIbealk  §   \,                                  i                      j         OLAND              _,
L  ' ) \ t ( (~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                           -    -    W D O .
H E R ZEG                  I    FED. REN  OF A                                                        R
_   (                                         <                f~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ~~ YUGOSLAVIA   sT DL jLLAosNA Fe FM_
KILOMETERS                                         /                                                                                                                                                CETCR.AL._UiAF.   i
n e So,ndor,ss. co,o,s, d*mmon,nL,ns ond ony o,Iw do,cn, ,azo~ne o'  A,J ,                                                                                                                                                / _ 
A:wlo ny MARAlTE. a'nn cm, edm na En ecPOnle oi SAnER  POUOFP A
Nor    PAomorS,nnIlud.d.0mDEOemporepnOKnAnA.CAnd KKtee7=oilEAMKeEmm                                                                                                                  -:
'TEEARY 199s









IMAGING
Report No: P-   6605 HR
Type: MOP



