                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26168

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-39880; TF-29116)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 17.0 MILLION

                                               TO

                                   REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                             FOR A

                           FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT




                                          June 26, 2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Unit
Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 2003)

                          Currency Unit = Kuna
                                 1 Kuna = US$ 0.14
                                  US$ 1 = 7.02 Kuna

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1-   December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACL       Agriculture Chamber Law
APS       Agricultural Policy Strategy
APU       Agricultural Policy Unit
ARC       Agriculture Research Council
ARF       Agriculture Research Fund
ASAL      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CABI      Croatian Agricultural Botany Institute
CAEI      Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute
CARS      Croatian Agricultural Research System
CGS       Competitive Grant Scheme
DFCFP     Department of Field Crops Forage and Grasslands
ERP       Emergency Reconstruction Project
FAO/IC    FAO Investment Center
FDP       Fodder Development Program
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
MIS       Market Information Service
MPRS      Medvednica Pasture Research Station
MST       Ministry of Science and Technology
NSA       National Seed Authority
NVI       National Veterinarian Institute
PASP      Private Advisory Services Program
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
SAA       Stabilization and Association Agreement
SISS      State Institute for Seeds and Seedlings
SL        Seed Law
SSSI      State Seeds and Seedlings Institute
WTO       World Trade Organization
ZRECU     Zonal Research-Extension Coordination Unit

                        Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
                     Country Director:      Andrew N. Vorkink
            Sector Manager/Director:        Joseph Goldberg/Laura Tuck
                    Task Team Leader        Rapeepun Jaisaard

                                          CROATIA
                  CROATIA FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P008335                                                      Project Name: CROATIA FARMER SUPPORT
                                                                         SERVICES PROJECT
Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard                                           TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CROATIA FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-39880; TF-29116
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (80%); Central government
                            administration (20%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P); Rural policies and institutions (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/24/1994                                        Effective: 07/22/1996              07/22/1996
   Appraisal:    02/24/1995                                            MTR: 04/30/1998                04/30/1998
    Approval:    03/21/1996                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF CROATIA/Project Implementation Office; MAF
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Christine Wallich
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Margret Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:             Rapeepun Jaisaard                              Severin Kodderitzsch
ICR Primary Author:             Rapeepun Jaisaard and Garry
                                Smith


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the FSSP was "to support the transition of the agricultural sector by
providing technology related support services that are relevant to private farmers with the aim of
improving the productivity and income of the private farming community and, hence, the competitiveness
of the sector." The objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved
by the Board on April 20, 1995, which identified the private agriculture sector as a potential impetus to
growth. This outcome was seen as being contingent on the liberalization of trade and price policies,
privatization of agro-kombinats and state-owned land, and increased private sector participation in
agricultural support services, within a more market-oriented sector development environment. An
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, under preparation at the time of project appraisal, was expected to
address these contingencies.

The development objective was appropriate in that it addressed the expressed needs of private farmers and
met the government's objective of lifting growth and downsizing public services. It did not explicitly
address poverty issues but it was designed to contribute to improving living standards in rural areas and
among small farmers, who constitute a large poverty group.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components were designed on the basis of limited available experience in agricultural service
reform in eastern Europe at the time of project appraisal. The design was based on experience gained from
the implementation of the fast disbursing post-conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project and the
knowledge of Bank project performance in Croatia under the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The project design also utilized the government's "Agricultural Policy Strategy", a
comprehensive and far-sighted strategy prepared with FAO assistance and approved by the Croatian
Parliament in March 1995. The project has six components as follows (SAR estimate v. actual expenditure
in parentheses):

 i. Agriculture Extension: (US$7.2 million v. US$3.52 million). This component planned to support (a) a
     comprehensive training program and necessary equipment for the existing county-level extension
     offices of MAF; (b) the formation on a pilot scale of some 45 farmer associations; (c) the development
     of 25 extension training packages and mass media based extension; (d) on-farm trial and demonstration
     programs and (e) the introduction of farmer-based pilot milk recording.
ii. Agriculture Research: (US$8.0 million v. US$6.16 million). This component planned to assist the
     establishment of an Agriculture Research Council (ARC) to define the applied research program and
     allocate resources for research contracts through an Agriculture Research Fund (ARF) on a
     competitive grant basis. It also planned to support four small zonal research-extension coordination
     units (ZRECU) and a training program for researchers working on applied agriculture research issues.
iii. Animal Health Support Services: (US$6.1 million v. US$4.52 million). Under this component, the
     project planned to support the National Veterinarian Institute (NVI) and its four regional branches to
     upgrade its analytical equipment in order to intensify national disease surveillance and improve the
     effectiveness of border control posts. It trained private and public veterinarians and supported the
     linkage of NVI national and regional animal health data bases to MAF's epidemiological and
     disease-reporting division.
iv. Pasture and Fodder Development: (US$2.3 million v. US$2.88 million). Support for this component



                                                    - 2 -

    included a systematic evaluation of national grassland resources, improvement of the laboratory and
    training facilities of a pasture research station, training of staff, provision of field equipment for
    pasture trials and demonstration, and the establishment of a modest seed bank.
 v. Seed Industry Development: (US$3.8 million v. US$2.75 million). The project supported the
    establishment of a National Seed Authority (NSA) and provided funds for laboratory and field
    equipment for seed variety trials and certification, plant pathology and chemical registration, and staff
    training. It was planned that the NSA would assume responsibility for regulating seed and
    agro-chemical markets.
vi. Policy Analysis Support: (US$2.3 million v. US$ 1.95 million). The project planned to improve
     MAF's policy analysis by providing training, technical assistance, studies and support for the
     establishment of a market information system.
vii. Project Management Unit: (US$0.3 million v. US$0.5 million) The project supported office
     establishment, equipment and training of staff in the project management unit.
3.4 Revised Components:
Three project components were revised during project implementation. The planned establishment of four
Zonal Research-Extension Coordination Units was dropped following the restructuring of the public
extension service into the Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute (CAEI) and the establishment of
alternative research-extension linkages through the competitive research funding system. The concept of a
national authority to `regulate the seed and agro-chemical markets' was displaced by the State Institute for
Seeds and Seedlings (SISS) with a direct seed materials focus. The civil works program at the Medvednica
pasture research station was expanded to include animal stables. All revisions were detailed in supervision
mission reports and subsequent follow up letters to the government, copied to the relevant Executive
Director. No revision was considered to change the project scope and hence to require Board submission.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project responded to the CAS and to the Borrower's
agricultural sector strategy, within which it identified the development of private farming to promote
efficiency in production and marketing and, as an engine of growth, to promote the competitiveness of the
sector in the world market. The project also drew on the available experience of agricultural service reform
in transitional economies. The project objective was relevant and clearly linked to measurable output
indicators.

Given the range of project activities, the project duration was sensibly extended from 4 to 5 years at loan
negotiations and was further extended by 18 months during implementation, largely to accommodate a slow
project start-up. Inexperience with Bank procurement procedures was a perceived risk that was addressed
in the project design; however, start­up problems extended into other management areas and included the
unexpectedly slow passage of industry legislation on which disbursement was conditional.

Identified risks included staff resistance to the reform agenda, insufficient procurement experience, and
limited farmer capacity to form and support farmer associations. Provision for manageable risk included
staff training, provision for international procurement support and the project's strong technical focus and
the government's assurance of `unequivocal support' for farmer associations. With the value of hindsight,
two risks that were not identified, but which ultimately constrained project implementation included
political lethargy in the economic reform process and the loss of `civicness' in the post-war social
environment that seriously affected farmer willingness to associate. The evaluation of the Bank's Safeguard
Policies was limited to the environment, for which risk was fairly assessed and mitigation action identified.

A major design constraint was avoided when the unrealistic project timeframe was redressed at
negotiations. The optimism that drove initial expectations on project implementation stemmed from the



                                                     - 3 -

competency of the project management team within the Ministry of Agriculture, a broad expectation of
moderate economic growth, and the far reaching 1995 agricultural-development-strategy legislation that
was expected to provide the framework for project implementation. In the event, the management team
dissipated soon after project start-up due to the election of a new government, economic reform stagnated,
and subsequent governments essentially ignored the 1995 agricultural development strategy, despite its
legislation by parliament. In this environment, the extra time allowed for implementation was therefore
essential in enabling effective project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The rating of achievement of project objectives is satisfactory. The project has significantly improved the
efficiency and effectiveness of public sector technology-related support services that are relevant to private
farmers. The Agricultural Research Council (ARC) and the Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute
(CAEI) have been established, and their structures and funding are now embedded in the Agriculture Law.
The project has introduced the principles and practices of veterinary epidemiology to the Veterinary
Department, substantially strengthened the National Veterinary Institute (NVI), established an
internationally recognized State Institute for Seeds and Seedlings (SISS), and developed a center for
pasture research and teaching. With project support, MAF also established an Agricultural Policy Unit and
also an extensive market information service. All of these institutions now offer web-based services to an
increasingly "connected" rural community. These achievements are consistent with current country and
sectoral assistance strategies and are appropriate in terms of the Bank's current social and economic goals.
In terms of the participation of the private sector, the project has been less effective, with little evidence of
an emerging private sector service system or of farmer representation at the national level.

The project's impact on private farmer production and income cannot be confirmed, as the farm monitoring
program only has data for three of the project's six years (1989, 2000 and 2001) during which there were
significant climatic impacts. There is, however, substantial anecdotal evidence that a large number of
private farmers improved their competitiveness and profitability as a result of project-financed activities.
Annex 1 contains an analysis of projected and actual project outcomes.

There were several important shortfalls, for examples, in obtaining or organizing farmer (stakeholder)
participation in public sector activities, in stimulating private sector approaches to agricultural services, in
organizing reform or privatization of agrokombinats or better use of their assets, in project Monitoring and
Evaluation, and in several unimplemented project initiatives. But the achievements with regard to the
reformulation and firm establishment, post-collapse of Yugoslavia, of Croatian public agricultural
institutions, are considered so important, and were so linked to the project, that overall the project must be
considered a success.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project outputs have been mostly realized where they relate to strengthening public sector services as
follows:

Agriculture Extension.
This component aimed to improve the profitability of farm enterprises and the sustainability of
agriculture production by strengthening public and private agricultural extension and involving farmers in
service management. Activities included the equipping and training of the public extension staff, the
piloting of a farmer-association-based private advisory service and a farmer-managed milk recording
scheme, the preparation of extension information including material for the mass media, and an on-farm



                                                       - 4 -

trials and demonstration program. The FSSP supported the establishment of the CAEI, which is now
incorporated in agriculture law. It has also established a framework for the CAEI's sustainable
development, strengthened the capacity of its staff to address farmer needs, developed a wealth of technical
information and built linkages to the Croatian agricultural research system. It was less successful in
increasing stakeholder participation in extension management. The planned county farmer advisory
committees have not been set up, private extension services have not matured as anticipated. Project
expectations of an Extension Law have culminated in a draft law for the establishment of County
Agricultural Chambers, which is to be tabled in Parliament in 2003. This plan to shift to an Austrian-style
Agricultural Chamber system for service delivery appears practical and would work well with industry
consultation and stakeholders participation. Overall, the CAEI is better equipped to address farmers needs
as a result of FSSP investments, but still needs to engage stakeholders as partners in the development of
advisory services.

The FSSP was designed to support the establishment of 45 farmer associations (FAs) eligible to receive
grants to employ private advisors. By 2000, 23 associations were established but about three of the 23
farm advisors funded under the program registered as craft persons. "Crafts persons are registered private
advisors who work as independent private contractors to farmer associations.". In June 2001, the Bank
recommended that Government close this component and focus instead on building capacity among
advisors prepared to register as craft persons. Government chose to continue the support to the then
remaining 15 farmer associations, but at a lower level than previously provided. The diminishment of social
capital in post-war Croatia and slower-than-anticipated growth of private agriculture, both of which have
curtailed this component, were not anticipated at project appraisal.

The Farmer-Based Milk Recording Pilot Scheme has not been implemented due to the inability of
competing animal breeding and herd selection institutional interests to integrate their services. While there
is some question of the viability of the recommended farmer-managed approach to milk recording in
Croatia's smallholder farming community, the approach deserves closer attention, since under a new draft
Livestock Law, the Croatian Livestock Selection Center (CLSC) will relinquish part of its responsibilities
to competent farmer associations.

Agricultural Research.
This component, which aimed to provide relevant and timely research results to farmers, established an
Agricultural Research Committee (ARC), appointed an ARC Secretary, developed an operations manual
and funded 137 competitively awarded applied research programs valued at US$4.58 million. While only
three of four planned research funding tranches were released, due primarily to the slow establishment of
the ARC, this program is considered to have been very successful. The ARC has subsequently been
established in legislation through the Agriculture Law and has received its first annual post-project budget
of Kuna 9 million (US$1.2 million), an amount equivalent to previous FSSP funding. A study conducted to
identify sustainable funding sources for the ARC identified a range of financing options, including product
levies, tax credits, a tax on subsidies and private sector participation. It concluded, however, that Croatian
agriculture is too immature to exploit these funding avenues at this juncture and recommended that applied
agricultural research be underpinned by the government budget over the next 5-10 years, during which time
alternative funding sources would be explored. As a first step in this process, the current round of bidding
is giving preference to proposals that demonstrate industry co-financing.

All completed projects have been submitted to the PIU and are being catalogued and prepared for web
presentation. These reports follow the extension-oriented format required by the project. The University of
Zagreb Faculty of Agriculture has also published Croatian and English abstracts of its ARC research
outcomes as a book, a practice that other participating institutes have indicated they will also adopt. A


                                                     - 5 -

rapid review of the research outcomes, using a simple scoring format to determine their relevance to
Croatian agriculture, is underway with a report scheduled for mid-2003. It is estimated that about 60% of
the ARC funded research is directly relevant to farmers. This level could be further improved if the CAEI
better identified farmer concerns and the ARC applied this knowledge in its research prioritization process.
An independent audit has examined and approved the financial statements of assets and liabilities of the
ARC funded projects, and all uncommitted funds have been returned to the project accounts. The ARC has
established and will maintain an Asset Registry for equipment purchased through ARC funding.

Animal Health Support Services.
The FSSP strove to progress disease eradication by re-equipping the veterinary laboratory system and
establishing the elements of a veterinary epidemiology program, including trained staff and systems for
border and field disease monitoring, residue testing, animal numbering and laboratory test recording. All
elements of this program were successfully completed and are being integrated as a comprehensive
veterinary epidemiology service. Use of the field epidemiology electronic information system and the
National Veterinary Institute laboratory test information database is currently delayed due to the
understaffing of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) Veterinary Department and insufficient
recognition by MAF of the need for a comprehensive disease surveillance and risk management system to
protect the livestock industry and as a step toward EU integration.

A planned restructuring of the MAF Veterinary Department envisages the establishment of an
Epidemiology Department, but would require additional staff, completion of the epidemiology training
program and ISDN line connections to all counties and border veterinary offices. MAF agreed to provide
them. The FSSP epidemiology program has demonstrated its usefulness with the development of
Bluetongue, BSE and FMD control strategies.

The Project also provided support to the Veterinary Chamber and training for private veterinarians in areas
that would improve their services and business management. Both programs were successfully completed.
Paid membership participating in the Veterinary Chamber has risen to 2,563 at the end of 2002, compared
to 1,373 at the end of 1996.

Seed Industry Development.
The seed industry development component aimed to improve the quality, access and price of both local
and imported plant genetic material. The State Institute for Seeds and Seedlings (SISS) has been
comprehensively established and operates as a largely self-financing authority, with government funding
forming only 10-15 percent of its budget, the balance being derived from industry fees. This component is
considered highly successful. The SISS is now ISTA, UPOV and OECD registered and is
internationalizing its activities through the sharing of Distinctiveness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS)
testing programs with regional and EU partner organizations. Through project supported law reform, the
SISS is now empowered to run national DUS and Value of Cultivation and Use (VCU) testing programs
and to administer the national seed testing and certification program. The SISS has also recently been
empowered to inspect private seed industry laboratories, although this legislation does not permit SISS to
cancel the license of companies consistently producing poor results. The establishment of a reputable seed
and seedling testing authority has led to the relaxation of previously onerous testing requirements for some
imported seeds. The lowering of testing to one year for seeds of vegetables and some medicinal and fodder
species that are registered on the European Common Catalogues will increase Croatian agricultural
competitiveness. While the opening of the seed market does carry some risk for local seed companies, the
main seed breeders and multipliers already have commercial links with international seed companies and
are likely, in a more liberal seed industry, to find ways to further align their resources and commercial
interests with those of their partners. SISS plans to expand its ISTA accreditation to include plant health


                                                     - 6 -

testing; this should enjoy strong government and industry support.

Pasture and Fodder Development.
The FSSP has established a well-equipped fodder and pasture training and research center within the
University of Zagreb Faculty of Agriculture with a view to expand and improve the area under pasture
and fodder management. The government has subsequently assured permanent staffing for this center, and
the Project has funded three post-graduate scholarships for study by center staff. The Project has also
developed a GIS database on Croatia's extensive natural pasture resource, including its classification using
historic data. The FSSP also supported the construction of a fodder corn and pasture legume gene bank at
the Faculty and an associated field trials program. These developments represent a significant step forward
in understanding and, ultimately, exploiting Croatia's natural pasture resource with the incorporation of
improved pasture production and fodder conservation in livestock farming systems. More work is required
to test and evaluate pasture and fodder technology on farmer fields. Here, the project outcome was less than
satisfactory. Successful sown pasture trials were established on only 8 farmer fields by Faculty staff, while
a joint Faculty/CAEI program established a further 45 trials in the autumn of 2002 with measurement
planned in 2003. Also, more work need to be done on improving management of Croatia's million-plus
hectares of natural pasture. The Medvednica pasture research station's infrastructure was constructed and
equipped under the project and both the Department of Field Crop Forage and Grasslands (DFCFP) and
the CAEI are now equipped to implement such a demonstration in the future, supported by ARC funding.
MAF management should facilitate these linkages and the associated research.

Policy Analysis Support.
The Project funded the establishment of a Policy Unit within MAF in order to increase sectoral efficiency
and supported that unit in 6 major policy studies addressing (i) competitiveness of Croatian agriculture in
the context of European Union association; (ii) the pecuniary incentives system in agriculture & fisheries;
(iii) the establishment of an agricultural information center; (iv) the establishment of a farm register; (v)
agri-environment support policy and (vi) food safety. Outcomes of these studies include a restructured
agricultural subsidy system, more closely aligned to European norms, a farm registration program, a
research-based agri-environmental action plan, a draft new food safety law and plans for the substantive
restructuring of food safety management in Croatia. An agricultural information center is planned, but not
yet implemented. While FSSP has established policy analysis as an activity within MAF, longer-term
investment both in staffing and staff capacity is needed to ensure an independent MAF capacity for policy
analysis. Had the project appointed a long term policy adviser as specified in the SAR, rather than relying
on a series of short-term inputs, it is likely that policy analysis skills would have been more deeply
embedded in MAF.

Market Information Service.
The FSSP also established a market information service (MIS) that is now incorporated into the MAF
Policy Directorate. The MIS reports green market and retail prices on fruit and vegetable (weekly),
livestock sales, meat, dairy products and poultry products (fortnightly), fish (monthly), grain (monthly) and
agricultural inputs (biannually). In total, the service monitors prices on about 350 agricultural commodities
and products. A basic commodity outlook service is also provided for some products, as is a web-based
commodity trading post. Project-developed software provides web access to current and historical
databases and linkages to wholesale market price databases and central and Eastern European market price
information. The software can export reports to proprietary spreadsheet software. Considering budget
constraints to the development of more frequent price reporting and more comprehensive commodity
forecasting services, future opportunities to commercialize the service, including web advertising, access
fees and margins on commodity trades, should be pursued.




                                                       - 7 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Ex-post financial and economic analyses were carried out following the same methodology as at appraisal.
Five farm models representing typical farms in each major agro-ecological zone (Istria, Dalmatia, Lika,
Slavonija and West Continental Zone) were used to illustrate the likely impacts of farm level technical
improvements on production and net income. The models cover the common crop and livestock enterprises
in each zone. The models were aggregated to assess the total financial and economic benefits of the project.

A combination of poor policy, inadequate attention to factor markets, and strong resistance to change from
the socially owned sector led to a slow, uneven transition over the project period. The incremental
production trends of recent years have been shallow but expanding and were driven by the response of
small, private farmers and private agro-processors to new opportunities. Private sector growth has been
offset by the contraction of the agro-kombinats and socially owned agro-processors. Small-scale private
farms recovered quickly from the impact of war and increased their output steadily after 1992. By 1998
their production exceeded the level achieved in 1990. The agro-kombinats and cooperatives failed to
respond to the new economic environment. Their output of both livestock and crops fell steadily after 1990,
until it stabilized at 50%-60% of independence levels around 1995, reflecting the inability of these
enterprises to adapt to the constraints and opportunities created by reform.

The annual FSSP Farm Monitoring Survey has captured this trend, to a degree, in the private farming
sector, although weak analysis of this database limits its usefulness to general trends:
·     expanded use of improved pasture for ruminant nutrition, particularly for milk production, reducing
      costs and raising profitability;
·     rising productivity in the pig sector;
·     increased use and productivity of maize, improved seed and increased crop inputs;
·     rising wheat and barley yields associated primarily with increased fertilizer use;
·     reduced costs in horticulture production associated with increased use of IPM;
·     increased fodder conservation, particularly using maize silage;
·     increased short-term land rental.

The ex-post farm models were analyzed using 2002 agricultural commodity and input prices; the
production and yield levels used were those prevailing in 2002 (Annex 3, Table 3). Each model shows net
incremental farm financial benefits and positive or neutral returns to labor. The incremental value of
production ranged from US$1,731 for a mixed farm in Istria to US$15,970 for a mixed farm in Lika. The
net present value per ha, dicounted at 10% over the period of 10 years, ranged from US$ 1,200 to US$
44,000 per ha for Istria Mixed Farm and Dalmatia vegetable farms, respectively.

Many project benefits outside the farm, including better sanitary and phytosanitary protection, the fiscal
impacts of improved agricultural policy, improved environmental sustainability (through pasture based
production and IPM) and improved export opportunities, have not been included in this analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Analysis. A weighted average net incremental value of production per hectare of arable land was
calculated at US$226/ha/year, substantially below the appraisal estimate of US$385/ha/year.The per
hectare financial benefits are weighted by the share of the respective farming areas in the overall agriculture
in the country.

To obtain the potential annual incremental value of production of private agriculture, making full use of
project services, this figure is multiplied by the area of arable land privately farmed (roughly 1.46 million



                                                      - 8 -

ha, down from 1.6 million ha. at appraisal). Actual benefits are likely to be realized by only a small portion
of these landholders. An estimate was made at appraisal that 5 per cent of arable land would benefit fully
from the project. While there is strong evidence that the CAEI impacted on a larger percentage of Croatian
farmers than this low level, the figure has been retained for the ICR analysis, which yielded an annual net
benefit of US$16 million.

Project incremental financial cost was determined from actual project cost of US$3.7 million per year
during the 6-year period. Investment cost was US$2.8 million and recurrent cost was US$0.9 million per
year. Future recurrent cost was estimated to continue at the prevailing level over the 10-year analysis
period. Replacement cost is assumed at a level of 20% of total project investment costs. Incremental
benefits are estimated at US$16 million and net benefits are estimated at US$12.2 million. The resulting
analysis shows a financial rate of return (FRR) of 17% (Annex 3, Table 5).

Economic Analysis. The ex-post economic analysis has been prepared using similar methodology to that
used for the financial analysis. Economic prices were adjusted by net protection coefficients (NPC) derived
from the analysis conducted during the implementation of the Country Economic Memorandum. Key NPCs
are detailed in Annex 3, Tables 6 and 7. Inputs and outputs are calculated without taxes and duties. Project
incremental economic cost was estimated at US$2.4 million and recurrent cost was estimated at US$0.8
million. Incremental benefits are estimated at US$13 million and the net benefit is estimated at US$9.4
million. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) to the completed project is 15 percent (Annex 3,
Table 10) which is lower than the 28 percent estimated during project appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was successful in strengthening the institutional base of Croatian agriculture.            Notable
institutional achievements included the establishment of the CAEI, ARC and SISS as independent entities
established under law. The project established the Agricultural Policy Unit and the Market Information
Service within MAF and built staff capacity in the Veterinary Department. The expansion of the
Medvednica Pasture Research Station was another notable institutional development.

The establishment of the SISS under the 1997 Seed Law and the CAEI and ARC under the 2002
Agriculture Law ensure sustainable funding for these institutions. The SISS is already 90 percent
self-sustaining from industry service and registration fees, which is high by European standards. The CAEI
has enjoyed a 15 percent post project budget increase that will enable a significant staff increase, and the
ARC was allocated US$1.2 million in 2003, an amount equivalent to its FSSP funding. Within MAF, all
project employed staff have been integrated into the ministry to provide a staffing base for policy analysis,
market information and epidemiology services. While this will be an important and difficult step in the
prevailing financial climate, both the Policy Unit and the proposed Epidemiology Unit will require
additional staff and investment in long-term staff training to become fully effective.

The draft Extension Law, expected to be submitted to parliament during 2003, provides for the
establishment of Austrian-style regional Agricultural Chambers that would be managed by elected farmer
Boards and provide extension, animal breeding and herd recording services. While this approach looks
sound in principal, it requires extensive discussion with both the commercial farming community and CAEI
staff if the final product is to have stakeholder ownership.

There has been little effort to achieve cost recovery for public agricultural services. While the seed industry
is paying almost the full cost of its regulatory program, a recent analysis of the ARC concluded that
Croatian agriculture is too immature to exploit private funding avenues at this juncture and recommended
that applied agricultural research be underpinned by the government budget over the next 5-10 years,


                                                     - 9 -

during which time alternative funding sources would be explored. As a first step in this process, the current
round of bidding is giving preference to proposals that demonstrate industry co-financing. A similar
attitude prevails with the provision of public extension and market information services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Following the cessation of the war, there have been no significant externalities outside the control of
government that affected project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major constraint affecting government control was its inability to move decisively on agricultural
privatization, trade liberalization and subsidy management, despite having legislated a market-oriented
agricultural development strategy prior to project effectiveness. Consideration of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan, which was planned to address these contingencies, did not progress beyond the
identification mission and was cancelled by the government. This led to the continuance of asymmetric
market forces, wasteful budget transfers to state-owned institutions and extremely inefficient use of land
and enterprise infrastructure. Other factors included the government's weak support for civil society
engagement in policy and program development, the ban on most new public sector employment, public
institution rivalries particularly in the animal breeding sector, a relatively high turnover of ministers around
the time of project inception, and the associated breakup of the original management team. The slow
passage of government legislation in Croatia was a further contributory factor to project effectiveness.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation capacity was identified as a risk at appraisal and proved to be an early constraint to
project implementation. Although MAF staff had prior experience in Bank project management and were
fluent in English, they struggled with procurement issues. At times, an apparent unwillingness in
Washington to compromise on procurement matters may have contributed to these delays. Technical
assistance (TA), which was funded by a grant from the government of The Netherlands was used
effectively, although project management was initially slow to identify underperformance and request
change when it occurred. Key TA in the areas of veterinary epidemiology, seed certification, farm
management and policy analysis made major contributions to project success. Monitoring and evaluation of
project activities was less satisfactory. Only three of five planned farm monitoring surveys were conducted,
none of which provided baseline data, and the end-of-project impact assessment was not tendered, despite
detailed terms of reference having been prepared through project funding. While the MAF project
management team showed a strong commitment to project success, the inexperience of the initial team
reduced early project effectiveness. The subsequent appointment of a professional, independent PMU to
manage the project accelerated project implementation and substantially reduced the Bank's supervisory
role.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project, which was extended twice, for a total period of 18 months, expended approximately USD14.8
million or 98.7 percent of the loan following the cancellation of US$2 million from the loan in response to
Netherlands government assistance for TA. The project extensions reflect the complexity of the project and
the impact of delays in government legislation and reform.

The only significant cost overrun was with the pasture and fodder development program, where the decision
to construct a cattle barn and to rehabilitate other buildings on the site resulted in a 23 percent cost
overrun. There were savings in all other programs, most notably extension, where only 49% of available
funds were expended, because of the donor contribution for TA and the unimplemented zonal research



                                                      - 10 -

coordination and milk recording and the incompletely implemented private advisory services program.

There was one revision of the project Loan Agreement, in March 2001. This reflected the rising cost of
civil works at the pasture research station, savings in consulting services following the Dutch grant and a
reduction in unallocated funds, leading to the cancellation of US$2 million of loan funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the achievements of the FSSP are likely to be sustained, due primarily to the government's strong
commitment to the agricultural sector and its preparedness to fund comprehensive public advisory,
regulatory and research services for private farmers. The CAEI and ARC are established in law and
assured of continued funding, though each will have to defend its funding on an annual basis in the medium
term. The ARC has received its first annual post-project budget of Kuna 9 million (US$1.2 million), an
amount equivalent to previous FSSP funding. The SISS is also established under the Seed Law and is
largely self funding. The Policy Unit and associated Market Information Service are embedded within MAF
and, although lightly staffed, are operational and sustainable. The pasture and fodder research station is
handsomely equipped, and the Ministry of Science and Technology has assured adequate staffing.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The FSSP epidemiology program remains incomplete due to MAF's inability to systematize the program or
complete the supporting infrastructure and training programs. These latter activities are not expensive and
could be completed from the regular program budget. To this end, plans are in progress to establish a
2-person veterinary epidemiology department. At least six staff will be required for an effective program.
The absence of an effective epidemiology service will hamper EU integration and, with rapidly expanding
economic globalization, leave the national livestock herd at risk to the growing number of known livestock
disease threats. The Minister of MAF assured the ICR mission that a veterinary epidemiology unit would
be established within the Veterinary Department in the near future and adequately staffed.

The FSSP has strengthened policy analysis within MAF, but capacity remains relatively low, and a range
of policy issues including agricultural subsidies, land disposal and consolidation, agriculture
competitiveness, enterprise restructuring, rural credit and commodity markets remain to be resolved. MAF
must further expand and train its policy staff and provide an environment that allows them to focus on
policy analysis without the distraction of day-to-day MAF administrative demands. Agricultural subsidy
management should be shifted as soon as possible to the planned new department within MAF. MAF must
also review its market analysis program, determine information needs, identify private and public sector
roles and adequately resource the latter. The minister recognizes the issues and has stated his intention to
develop appropriate remedies.

Stakeholder participation in policy and program development in MAF and its agencies is low. There is a
large gap to be bridged before civil society can play a significant role in driving agricultural policy and
program change. This applies particularly to the emergence of farmer associations, which at present have
little real influence on policy. Agricultural growth will be enhanced if farmers associate to provide services
and seek representation in the market and at the political table, acting in their own interests, as farmers and
members of rural communities. Government can support this process through capacity building,
facilitation, grants, tax breaks (e.g., in 2001, the government granted NGOs permanent exemption from the
22% VAT), and by invitation to participate fully in policy formulation. Farmers, too, must raise their own
commitment to agricultural civil society and cooperate to develop cohesive and representative national
associations, meeting the felt needs of the farming community. The draft Agriculture Chamber Law will be



                                                      - 11 -

presented to Parliament shortly and would significantly increase farmer participation if approved.

Performance indicators for future project monitoring and evaluation
Key performance indicators for impact evaluation will include (i) the development and adoption of
appropriate new technology under the ARC program and its relevance to sector policy; (ii) farmer access to
high quality planting material (iii) farm income as measured by the farm accounting data network; (iv)
government budget and staff allocations for veterinary epidemiology and policy analysis services; and (v)
the level of democratic stakeholder participation in the management of the CIAE and the ARC.

Bank follow-up
Impact evaluation of FFSP outputs should not occur before late 2004 following the establishment of the
new farmer registration and agricultural support policies and their consolidation under the new Agriculture
Law and expected reforms to the Veterinary, Food Safety and Extension laws, all of which will raise
stakeholder participation. The Bank's recently completed Country Economic Memorandum should form the
basis of Bank follow-up in the sector. Areas identified for further Bank support include rural land reform,
agricultural competitiveness and food safety management.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in the management of the FFSP project cycle was satisfactory. The project was
identified by an FAO Investment Center (FAO/IC) mission in collaboration with the Croatian government
in May 1993. A second joint FAO/IC ­ Croatian government mission prepared the project in June 1994.
There was little overlap in the FAO/IC team membership between identification and preparation; however,
the strong Croatian government team remained essentially unchanged. The FAO/IC preparation mission
team leader was the deputy team leader of the Bank appraisal mission in February 1995. The appraisal
mission team leader made several follow-up visits between appraisal and loan negotiation for follow-up
discussions with Government. The resulting project was closely linked to government's market-oriented
agricultural development objectives, drew on available bank experience with agricultural service reform in
transitional economies and was consistent with the 1995 CAS, within which the project was identified. The
government consistently exhibited strong ownership of the project.

The appraisal mission discarded the animal breeding component of the project following the failure of the
competing institutional interests to reach agreement on its unified management. They also scaled back the
scope of the proposed Croatian Agricultural Botany Institute to focus, instead, on the seed sector. The
mission, however, retained the core elements of the reform package in a series of well-structured, linked
activities.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was satisfactory, with two supervision missions during each year of implementation,
The Bank task manager gave considerable support to the FSSP procurement program through 1997/98,
though this might have been better addressed through periodic project employment of an international
procurement specialist, as procurement issues at times strained the Bank-project management relationship.
While there was a relatively high turnover of task managers, with four over the project's life, two of them
worked with the project for extended periods. Where alterations to project programs were recommended,
government ownership was generally high, and the supervision team prepared detailed recommendations for
their implementation. The supervision missions also supported the government's requests for two project
extensions and one adjustment of the Loan Agreement, all of which were completed in an acceptable time
frame.


                                                    - 12 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of Bank performance is satisfactory, with good design backed by sound supervision
performance. The only negative aspect of the Bank's involvement was the procrastination over procurement
issues during the early stages of project implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation in project preparation was highly satisfactory, backed as it was by their
emerging agricultural strategy document. Government experience in the World Bank project cycle and in
loan management in 1993/94 was adequate, which enabled the identification and preparation teams the
luxury of focusing exclusively on design issues. The preparation teams enjoyed the full support of the MAF
and had full access to MAF management, including the minister and to the necessary public and private
sector officials and records. The retention by MAF of the same project management team through the
identification/preparation/appraisal process added significantly to its efficiency.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, government implementation performance was satisfactory, though the first two years suffered from
weak procurement. The government was slow in processing laws concerning agricultural research and seed
industry reform, which, in hindsight, has proven to be the norm in Croatian governance. Project
components were managed day-to-day by the responsible department heads, whose relative inexperience in
bank processes occasionally delayed implementation. This delay was frequently more than compensated by
the commitment and hard work of the broad base of competent technicians who underpinned the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) performance was satisfactory, with project management improving
markedly over time. The initial project management team, while dedicated, dissipated within the first 18
months of the project, resulting in the transition to a new independent, government funded, professional PIU
in early 1999, which substantially improved implementation performance. Government showed a strong
commitment to counterpart funding although it only reached 58 percent of budget. Substantial savings
occurred in the extension and animal health programs and with the SISS, the latter due to the unexpectedly
high level of cost recovery.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into the account the aforementioned ratings, the performance of the Borrower is assessed as
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Projects of institutional reform (like the FSSP) can be successful in building key capacities to support the
private agricultural sector even when government has lagged in reforming trade and price policies,
privatization of agro-kombinats and state-owned land, and other policies that are fundamental to long-run
market-oriented agriculture sector development. In practical terms, this means that projects designed to
improve institution performance can be implemented before economic reforms are completed.

A principle lesson learned is that if an agricultural institutional development project is to be evaluated in
terms of quantified impacts on farmer incomes, (1) the difficulty of this must be recognized, (2) the logic of
the quantification must therefore be specified in detail in the project document, (3) the project must not be
allowed to be effective until precisely defined baseline data to support the evaluation are available, (4) data
collection and monitoring must be rigorously implemented during the project and (5) all these expensive



                                                      - 13 -

M&E activities must be adequately financed as part of the project. If it is not intended that this detailed
M&E planning and execution is to be done and financially supported by the project (because of cost and
difficulty), such an institutional development project should not make the claim that it would "improv[e] the
productivity and income of the private farming community and, hence, the competitiveness of the sector,"
except in the most general terms. The monitoring and evaluation scheme, in this case, should be mainly
quantified in terms of intermediate outputs of institutional performance and of qualitative judgments as to
their importance. How this lesser M&E was to be done should be specified in detail in the project
document.

The competitive grant schemes financed by the project shows that some useful research can be developed
and transferred to farmers using a CGS. The project's experience is that effective competitive grant
management requires strong, independent supervision and regular financial and scientific auditing. In the
long run, CGSs cannot by themselves do much to reform entrenched and politicized scientific communities
in societies. In this context, farmer representation on advisory boards is often notional and rarely
democratic, and research and program supervision is often under funded and insufficiently independent. To
be fully effective in satisfying the research needs of small private farmers in the long run, the government
should therefore start an ongoing process of reform.

Effective and sustained farmer associations or advisory committees (and any sponsorship of private
agricultural support services by them) will not materialize from thin air even when there are strong
statements of national government support. They require the development of community trust built over
time from the grass roots through meetings and open elections that avoid elite capture or party
politicization. Natural leaders may emerge from the rural community to lead this process, or it may be that
a trusted NGO person, local politician or project official energizes and articulates the process. Training in
rural leadership is an essential ingredient, and among other things, it should attempt to impart knowledge
how WTO and other trade agreements affect the local agricultural economy.

An obvious operations lesson, one learned in thousands of projects before but frequently forgotten in the
waves of political corrections, is that most projects require Project Implementation Units (PIUs) to be
implemented effectively - or at all - but in particular these are required in projects aiming at institutional
change.     The acceleration of this project, once a PIU was finally instituted (after three years of
effectiveness), is one more case in point.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                  Croatia: Farmer Support Services Project (Loan No. 3988-HR)
                                      MAF s comments on the FSSP

AGRICULTURE EXTENSION
The Extension Institute component was consisted of the following components: (i) development of public
Zupanija Extension Service Centers; (ii) development and equipping of the extension institute; (iii) an
extension training program covering extension methodology, farm business management, marketing, group
dynamics, mass media communications, information management and postgraduate studies (iv) production
of information products (v) on-farm trial and demonstration program; (vi) private advisory service
development; and (vii) farmer herd recording group. Between 1998 - 2002, the CAEI achieved the
following results:
·        Public extension: In 1999 two Farmer Advisory Council started in two Zupanijas. Members were
mostly representatives from agribusiness, chamber of commerce and agricultural schools, rather than local



                                                    - 14 -

farmers The Councils failed, mainly because the social/political environment was not ready for formal
farmer representation in extension planning.
·        Development of the Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute (CAEI): The number of
extension staff increased from 80 in 1997 to 160 in 2002, spread across 99 branch offices. Offices were
equipped with office furniture and audio-visual, computing and field equipment. Officers were provided
email access and magazines subscriptions. Publication of a monthly advisory bulletin commenced in 1997
and today goes to over 1,000 subscribers. A monitoring system and supporting software, which includes
activity time-monitoring and a client database, was established in May 2000 and a CAEI web site was
established in 2001.
·        Extension training program: All advisers were trained in extension and diagnostic survey
methodologies and computing. Study tours were conducted to Holland, Denmark, Israel, USA, Bavaria,
Austria, Slovenia, Finland, Canada, Italy. Staff courses in management, organization of work, advisory
methods, technical packages development and mass media management were conducted by STOAS and in
farm business management, investment planning and marketing in agriculture and cooperative development
in cooperation with Danish Agricultural Advisory Center. Seventeen advisers received postgraduate
training.
·        Training packages development: 17 technical packages were developed (brochures, leaflets,
videos, books, maps, computer programs) for all areas of agriculture: cattle, pig, goat production, hay and
silage production, fruits, vineyard, vegetable, flower, olive production, cereals production, plant protection,
gross margin calculations, investment plans, marketing, cooperatives, economical bookkeeping. Farmers
participated in the selection, design and pre-testing of technical packages.
·        On-farm trial and demonstration program: Advisers regularly organized on farm trials and
demonstrations of farm machinery and new technologies.
·        Private advisory service development: in total 23 private advisers were contracted with 17
associations and cooperatives from 1998 - 2002. The program was not successful due to financial problems
within associations and cooperatives that were not able or ready to finance private advisers after the end of
World Bank project
·        Farmer herd recording group: This program was not implemented due to opposition to this
approach from elements within MAF. The project did, however organize a working group to improve dairy
production on family farms, including farmer monitoring of milk production.

The World Bank project has strengthened CAEI's image and strategy and provided all staff in CAEI with
new skills, knowledge, tools and experiences for strengthening our management and advisory work. CAEI
is today better able to provide farmers with quality information about new technologies that will improve
the productivity and competitiveness of family farms in Croatia. The planned budget for the extension
component was not fully utilized due, primarily, to CAEIs relative inexperience at project start-up.
Cooperation with World Bank, between components of the project and with consultants was very satisfying.
CAEI today closely cooperates with Policy Analysis Support and Agriculture Research Unit component.
We are not satisfied with the outcome concerning the Farmer Advisory Council and recognize the
importance of stakeholder participation. CAEI management will put increasing emphasis on improving the
specialization of its staff, in line with farmer demand.

APPLIED RESEARCH COMPONENT
The PFSP has established an Agricultural Research Council (ARC) under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), which, disregarding some small constraints, is operating effectively. The
ARC is now legally established as a foundation under the Law on Agriculture (Official Gazette, No.
66/2001). Agricultural producers represent the majority of ARC members (9 out of 17) and thus have a
significant influence on research decision processes.



                                                      - 15 -

The component has paved the way to a demand driven system of applied research in agriculture, responsive
to the needs of family farmers operating in a market economy. Although a significant number of the project
proposals submitted to the ARC were not the result of Rapid Rural Appraisals, almost all scientists
involved in projects have now established contacts with farmers and understand the state of the play in their
respective sector. With the establishment of a new system of applied agricultural research funding under the
umbrella of (MAF), the new, participatory approach has been established. The majority of ARC financed
research has been multidisciplinary and involved the analysis of financial benefits for farmers.

The ARC has established effective procedures for research bid invitation, evaluation, selection and
contracting. These are detailed in a "Manual for establishment of ARC". Strong linkages between research
and extension activities have been established. The CAIE is represented on the ARC, strongly influences
(33% weighting) the evaluation of project proposals and participates in all field demonstration programs.
Research staff are better trained and more able to respond to farmer's requirements. The project has also
strengthened laboratory resources and skills. Constraints include the slow communication of evaluation
results to proposing researchers, the low efficiency in monitoring project implementation and inadequate
ex-post evaluation of research projects, particularly concerning adoption rates of results and their
socio-economic impact.

The project built capacity amongst staff working on research projects. The training introduced new
approaches to agricultural research, strengthening on-farm research, incorporating socio-economic benefits,
building multidisciplinary approaches and strengthening research-extension linkages. These ensures
sustainability of the system itself as all parties involved are beginning to realise that the outcomes of
applied research have practical benefits for all of them. Researchers are more in demand for on-farm
research, extensionists get continuous current findings within their field for expertise and farmers benefits
from improved productivity and quality and reduced costs.

The Bank ­ Borrower relationship has been of a rather collaborative nature and could be seen as a fruitful,
continuous learning process. While future ARC managed research will be State financed in the immediate
future, a study on "Ensuring Sustainable Financing for Applied Research in Agriculture" has provided the
basis for future stakeholder participation in applied research.

ANIMAL HEALTH COMPONENT
One FSSP objective was to improve animal health support services by strengthening the epidemiological
skills of veterinarians working at the Veterinary College in Zagreb, the Croatian Veterinary Institute (CVI)
and the Veterinary Administration (VA) of the MAF and improving epidemiological data bases. This
objective was achieved. Trained epidemiologists are now positioned within the CVI and VA, who are able
to study the frequency, distribution and determinants of health and disease in the Croatian animal
population. This has led to better control of animal diseases, the reduction of productivity losses and the
development of eradication programs, which was one of the ultimate goals of the Project. Another
important FSSP objective was to provide CVI with a comprehensive range of laboratory equipment in
support of an intensified disease surveillance program. This objective was fully realized. Continuous
education for veterinarians, organized by the Croatian Veterinary Chamber (CVC) started within the frame
of the FSSP and it is now a recognized and ongoing process. Whole herd health training, initiated under the
FSSP has now been integrated into the Veterinary College (VC) curriculum.

The Veterinary component of the FSSP has quite successfully implemented most of the project activities.
Good cooperation with the WB staff was essential and of great benefit for the Veterinary component. WB
staff have always been highly supportive and at our disposal at any time needed. We appreciate very much


                                                     - 16 -

their work and look forward to our cooperation in the future.

PASTURE AND FODDER DEVELOPMENT
The objective of the pasture component included the development of grassland production, through both
natural and sown pasture and the introduction of higher quality forage as a substitute to the use of
expensive prepared feeds by private farmers. Component's programs included strengthening the Center of
Grassland Production, completing an inventory of natural grassland areas including the digitalization of
grassland maps of Croatia, training young scientists, conducting on-farm pasture and animal nutrition
research. The component included technical assistance in the fields of livestock economics, grassland
management, GIS, animal nutrition, animal feeding/rationing and laboratory management.

Project outputs included a comprehensive pasture science training and research facility, digitalized Croatia
pasture maps and staff GIS capability, staff trained in GIS, pasture production and near infrared feed
analysis, extension workers trained in pasture production, manuals on pasture and fodder production, on
farm demonstrations of forage production (varieties, fertilization, direct drilling), conservation (wrapped
round bales) and "cow-calf" production systems. Benefits are reflected in increased national milk
production (24% over the project life) and sharply rising sales of pasture seed.

Not all the activities were completed according to plan due to underestimated expenses for civil works, a
long procedure for Bank's no-objection for the Grassland Inventory Study, additional procurement
requirements (NIRS instrument, audio-visual equipment, computing equipment, skid-loader) additional
training and TA's, and the requirement for biological testing of new grass/clover varieties before being
introduced on family farms. The component manager is thankful to the project manager and PIU at MAF
and to the Bank's supervisors for understanding the importance of the component implementation and for
supporting additional activities.

The Pasture research Center will continue to provide scientific research in the field of ecology and
sustainable systems of pasture utilization for livestock production. It will seek closer co-operation with the
CAEI in applied research program on family farms, particularly for testing and introducing new, more
productive grass/clover varieties on family farms. The Center will expand the use of NIRS technology for
the rapid routine analysis of fresh/ground forages (hay, grass silage, corn silage) for farmers and establish
and regularly up date a national database on forage quality and nutritive value. The Center will also
developed a system for the permanent monitoring of natural grassland resources of Croatia using satellite
images and GIS technology. It is anticipated that the Center will become a leading "regional" center in
education and research in grassland production and utilization.

SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
The objective of this component was to improve the regulatory and administrative framework of the
Croatian seed and plant genetic sub-sector, with a view to improving domestic plant genetic resources and
increasing the industry s export market access and competitiveness. On the basis of the two FSSP
supported seed laws: Law for Seed, Seed Material And Plant Variety Recognition and Law on Plant
Variety Protection, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the State Institute for Seed and
Seedlings (SISS) as an independent state institution. The main objective of the SISS is the implementation
of the laws and related regulations, and the activity control, which means supervision of certain subjects
involved in the production, processing and trade of seed and seed material. The SISS plays an important
role in the registration and protection of varieties using equipment provided by the FSSP: This approach to
testing and performance evaluation is harmonized with European standards.




                                                      - 17 -

The activities of the SISS, as defined by the aforementioned Laws, includes: (i) recognition of the new
domestic and foreign plant varieties; (ii) plant protection (based on UPOV convention in 1991); (iii)
supervision of the seed crops and seed material, seedlings and fungus mycelium production; and (iv)
inspection of the seed in circulation and post control procedure. This work is carried out by four SISS
Departments - the Department for Varieties Recognition and Protection, the Department for Seed Crops
and Seed Declaration, the Laboratory Department and Field Technical Services. The SISS is now ISTA,
UPOV, and OECD registered and is internationalizing its activities through the sharing of DUS testing
programs with regional and EU partner organizations. One of the most important SISS activities was
reconstruction of "Cajara" facility were the seed laboratory and mechanical services program are located.
The project also established a seedling testing facility near Split. The project also provided technical
assistance for the introduction of VCU and DUS testing procedures and staff training, both in country and
abroad, as necessary for the performance of SISS. Expert support from the Dutch Inspection Service for
Potato Seed and Other Agriculture Species (NAK) was positive with reference to the quality of work and
expert capacities of SISS employees. Considering its equipment resources and education in variety DUS
and VCU testing, SISS has an advantage over some sister organizations in neighboring countries. This
advantage is opening possibilities to make SISS a reference center for variety testing in Eastern Europe. A
recently signed contract for testing for Slovenia confirms this situation.

POLICY ANALYSIS SUPPORT COMPONENT
The general objective for Policy Analysis Support Component was to improve the MAF policy analysis and
formulation capabilities and to strengthen the agricultural database available to policy decision makers. As
a first phase, new staff was recruited to establish an effective Agricultural Policy Unit (APU). A market
information capability was established in separate sub-unit. A medium term consultant was employed as the
APU policy advisor to provide technical advice and on-the-job training on agricultural policy analysis and
organizational improvements. Experts from the Agricultural Faculty implemented the Farm Survey four
times over the project life. In addition to on-the-job training, APU staff participated in study tours to
various governmental institutions, agencies and farmers in CEEC and EU countries, related to specific
subject

Thereafter, studies were conducted in the areas of (i) the Competitiveness of Croatian Agriculture and
European Union Association (Landell Mills ­ 2001); (ii) The Pecuniary Incentives System in Agriculture &
Fisheries - Proposals For Reform (Landell Mills ­ 2001); (iii) Establishment of the Agricultural
Information Center (Agriconsulting ­ 2002); (iv) The Establishment of Farm Register (Agriconsulting ­
2002); (v) Agri-Environment Support Policy (Scanagri 2002)and (vi) Food Safety Study (Scanagri 2002).

The Competitiveness of Croatian Agriculture and European Union Association led to substantial reform of
agricultural policy in Croatia. The Pecuniary Incentives System in Agriculture & Fisheries resulted in the
development of the new Incentives Law in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, promulgated in June 2002.
The Incentives Law the separates incentives for commercial (market oriented) and non-commercial farms
and introduces new schemes for rural development, income support and capital investment. Draft
regulations on the capital investment scheme are in the final stage of preparation and are expected to
become operational in June 2003. The rural development scheme is in initial phase. FAO is assisting MAF
in drafting a Strategy for Rural Development that will form the base for a program for rural development.

A Farm Register, which underpins the implementation of the Incentives Law, was established in the
beginning of 2003. About 140,000 farmers are now registered in Croatia along with all their capacities and
household members. The Farm Register will be progressively upgraded to become an Integrated
Administration and Control System (IACS) for payment and control of subsidies. This process will require
few more years of intensive development. The study for developing an Agricultural Information Center


                                                    - 18 -

(AIC) has provided insight into foreign experience in this field and a strategy for Croatia, but, due to a lack
of available staff in the MAF and the Croatian Bureau for Statistics, an AIC has not yet been established.
The Ministry will, however, employ two young experts for the AIC within Policy Unit. It is envisaged that
it will eventually grow into separate Unit.

The Food Safety Study was the starting point and base for the new Food Law that is now in the procedure
in the Government as a first draft. Its goal is to harmonize Croatian food safety legislation with EU and
world standards. It envisages comprehensive regulations for all food products and will require substantial
effort for its effective implementation. The Agri-Environment Support Policy Study has provided
information and practical experience on the relevant agri-environmental measures in EU countries. It will
serve as a basis for a Croatian Agri-Environmental Program and Good Agricultural Practices Manual.

During the Project implementation period the APU expanded into the MAF Department for Agricultural
Policy and Rural Development (DAPRD). DAPRD now consists of four Units: Agricultural Policy and
Rural Development, Unit for European Integration, International Relations Unit and Food Policy Unit.
Market Information System also established through the FSSP is temporarily integrated as a sub-unit into
International Relations Unit. It is likely that in time it will integrate into a new Agricultural Information
Center. During the implementation of the FSSP Croatia has become a member of WTO, CEFTA, and has
established Free Trade Agreements covering 32 countries (including the Agreement for Stabilization and
Association with the EU). DAPRD was the main negotiating coordinator for these agreements and will keep
that role in the process of negotiations with the EU. The main long-term policy objective of the Croatian
Government is membership of the European Union (EU). For the agricultural sector, this will involve a
large number of challenges in order to "develop a capacity to cope with competitive pressures and market
forces within the Union" and meet all the other requirements associated with the adoption of the acquis
communuetaire. A first step in this process has been undertaken within the FSSP project, which has
enabled DAPRD staff to widen their horizons and improve their capabilities. Unfortunately, EU structural
funds are not yet available for Croatian agriculture and termination of FSSP will leave a TA gap for
DAPRD.

The World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures were successfully implemented due to close
co-operation between MAF and World Bank staff. Although the WB procedures are relatively complicated,
MAF expresses its satisfaction with the flexibility of the Project and its tailoring according to the needs of
Croatia's agricultural policy requirements.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

This section includes any additional information at the discretion of the Region.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Breadth of advice requested.                Farmer requesting farm management,            With one CAEI adviser per 1,290 family
                                            financial and marketing advice from the CAEI farms, enquiry per adviser is high. In 2002,
                                                                                          the CAEI received 110,000 esquires, made
                                                                                          66,400 farm visits, travelling 1.2 million km in
                                                                                          the process. This is well above the 25,000
                                                                                          farmer contacts per annum estimated at
                                                                                          appraisal

Farmer survey                               Adoption rates of technical innovation.       The Farm Monitoring Reports did not
                                                                                          describe adoption rates, but noted trends,
                                                                                          with rising maize, pork, pasture and fodder
                                                                                          production most prominent

Farmer opinion surveys                      Improved contact with farmers, CAEI           No farmer opinion surveys were conducted
                                            reacting to specialized extension requests.   but CAEI staff were trained in `problem tree'
                                                                                          analysis and many used this approach to
                                                                                          gauge farmer opinion and priorities.




Comparison of adoption rates under public   Adoption rates of technical innovations       The private extension service did not
and private extension advice                evaluated by farmers                          materialize, so no comparison is possible.

Changes in district extension work programs Long term relevance of research               In 2002, CAEI staff spent about 50% of their
over time                                                                                 time with farmer visits and associated travel
                                                                                          and 10% on other information transfer
                                                                                          activities. While this is a big increase in
                                                                                          farmer contact time, staff are frustrated by
                                                                                          their admin, responsibilities, which limit
                                                                                          farmer interaction.

Number of contracts signed (15 contracts    ARC operates competitive grant research       The ARC signed 137 contracts over 4 years
per cycle)                                  system efficiently.                           and expects to sign about 40 per year in the
                                                                                          future.

Project survey                              Evidence of improved research skills and      Project training assessment results show
                                            adoption of international research standards. increased skills in applied research design
                                                                                          and management and farm financial analysis.

Program review                              Evidence of extension needs in research       CAEI is contributing to research funding
                                            proposals.                                    prioritization, but there is no linkage yet
                                                                                          between CAEI Zupanije level stakeholder
                                                                                          problem analysis and ARC research
                                                                                          prioritization.

Farmer surveys                              Relevance of ARC funded research              A survey of ARC research results is in
                                                                                          progress, however, independent observation
                                                                                          indicates 50-60% relevance.

                                            Progress in disease eradication including     This indicator is misleading as Croatia had
                                            improved vaccination rates and increased      an effective disease monitoring system per
                                            cost recovery                                 FSSP, with only limited vaccination for OIE
                                                                                          List A diseases. The FSSP epidemiology
                                                                                          program has, however, demonstrated its
                                                                                          usefulness with the development of
                                                                                          Bluetongue, BSE and FMD control
                                                                                          strategies.

Number of paying members and cost           Member participation in Veterinary Chamber. At the end of 1996, the Veterinary Chamber
recovery and financial sustainability.                                                    had 1373 paid-up members. At the end of




                                                               - 20 -

                                                                                            2002, this had risen to 2563
                                                                                            Members, almost double 1996.

Farmer training courses and field             Increased grassland yields on private farms. Project has conducted 4 farmer training
demonstrations                                                                              programs and 50+ field demonstrations. Over
                                                                                            1000 ha of pasture established. Pasture seed
                                                                                            sales up 23% in 2002 over 2001.

Fodder analysis and field trials.             Increased feed efficiency and use of forages. Over 200 new forage contractors
                                                                                            (silage/round bale haylage) in Croatia since
                                                                                            project inception.

                                                                                            DFCFP offering a near infra red fodder
                                                                                            service since 2003 and has trained 70
                                                                                            farmers in forage quality analysis.

Private farm records using licensed seed      Incremental yield improvement                 No records available to measure impact,
                                                                                            however, private farm crop yields have risen
                                                                                            significantly on project monitored farms over
                                                                                            the project life.

Export records                                Increased export of certified seed.           Croatia has not re-established its seed export
                                                                                            business since independence due to the
                                                                                            changing regional market.

License records                               Increased seed multiplication under           Internationally recognized seed companies
                                              international license.                        are now testing and registering new release
                                                                                            seed varieties on the Croatian market.

License and agro-chemical use records         Improved efficiency of agro-chemical use.     Activity dropped at project negotiations,
                                                                                            however, CAEI promotion of horticulture IPM
                                                                                            has reduced agro-chemical use on about
                                                                                            1000 farms.

Quality & timely anlysis and advise on policy Client satisfaction on policy issues (MAF,    MAF management is using the Agricultural
issues.                                       MOF, producer organizations                   Policy Unit analysis to prepare new policies in
                                                                                            the fields of environment, subsidy, food
                                                                                            safety, farmer registration and information
                                                                                            management.

Frequency of data use/informal surveys.       Improved marketing decisions by farmers,      Market information service is monitoring
                                              traders.                                      about 350 commodities. Eighty registered
                                                                                            users of web site (http://www.tisup.mps.hr)
                                                                                            which receives 1000+ hits per month.

Client surveys.                               Better understanding of farm systems and      Three annual farm survey reports published,
                                              agricultural economy.                         but not widely circulated or used for policy
                                                                                            analysis or extension planning.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
25,000 farmer contacts per year               Extension services mobile and operational.    All field extension staff mobile using own or
                                                                                            leased vehicles with (low) mileage allowance.
                                                                                            CAEI has 160 staff in 96 offices across the
                                                                                            country and will recruit 20 new field staff in
                                                                                            2003. . In 2002, the CAEI received 110,000
                                                                                            farmer esquires, made 66,400 farm visits,
                                                                                            travelling 1.2 million km in the process.


Diagnostic surveys                            Local constraints reflected in CAEI work      All staff trained in stakeholder problem
                                              program                                       analysis. Some, but not all CAEI offices have
                                                                                            developed "problem trees" with clients.
Work program/breadth of advice offered        Improved farm management, financial,          Clear evidence from training program




                                                                 - 21 -

                                              marketing and environmental skills.           evaluation and field activities of increased
                                                                                            financial, marketing and environmental skills.


Use of training packages and mass media       Increased number of farmers reached.          The CAEI has prepared 33 technical
programs.                                                                                   information packages and 3 mass media
                                                                                            packages and contributes to a weekly
                                                                                            agricultural TV program. CAEI also offers
                                                                                            farmers a phone/web based IPM information
                                                                                            service providing climatic information from
                                                                                            150 field monitoring stations
Number of private farm advisors and their     Increased share of extension advice through The private extension adviser program was
level of farmer contact.                      private sector                                not successful.


Project records.                              Milk recording undertaken by farmer groups. Program was not implemented


Number of projects requested/approved         ARC formulating research policies.            The ARC has established a process for
                                                                                            research prioritization and funding.
None indicated                                ARC meeting systematically and supervising ARC members review research contracts on
                                              contracts                                     a systematic basis including field visits.


None indicated                                Efficient distribution of ARC fund resources. The ARC has established an efficient
                                                                                            tendering process, improved in 2003 with the
                                                                                            introduction of a two step EOI/shortlisting
                                                                                            and full bid process.


Time gaps between invitation to bid, bid      Research contracts executed efficiently.      The ARC manages a time-bound bidding
evaluation, selection and contract signature.                                               system
Number of screening/peer review proposals. Screening and peer review of proposals.          ARC members screen all bids. Peer review is
                                                                                            sporadic.


Number of extension recommendations           Applied research results available to         All research results are published in an
                                              extension agents and farmers.                 extension format and are available on CD to
                                                                                            the public


Inclusion of extension problems in research; Improved contacts between extension and        All ARC funded research requires a
No. of research seminars; No. of farm trials  research.                                     collaborating extension advisor. All research
                                                                                            outcomes are presented at annual
                                                                                            workshops. Most ARC funded research
                                                                                            involves on-farm trials.


NVI records.                                  Increased number of samples tested by NVI. The NVI examined 521,266 samples in 2002
                                                                                            on which it conducted 937,860 tests. 70% of
                                                                                            samples were for Annual Order tests. 93,602
                                                                                            samples were for public health food safety
                                                                                            testing.


NVI records                                   Sample turnover time.                         NVI records show a satisfactory sample
                                                                                            turnover time. Sample processing and
                                                                                            information would be improved if the use of
                                                                                            the FSSP developed sample monitoring
                                                                                            software was made compulsory.


NVI records                                   Level of NVI cost recovery.                   The NVI meets 60% of its costs through
                                                                                            service delivery, mostly contracted from
                                                                                            government. The balance comes from MOST
                                                                                            funding.


Percentage of veterinary practices,           Level of data collection                      The web-based epidemiological information
slaughterhouses, etc participating in data                                                  database is designed, but not yet operational,
submission and number of data reports                                                       however, an adequate paper based system
distributed                                                                                 exists




                                                                  - 22 -

Project records                        Training courses for farmers and extension     DFCFP has conducted 4 farmer training
                                       staff in pasture science organized.            programs and 50+ field demonstrations on
                                                                                      pasture management. All extension staff have
                                                                                      received training in pasture and forage
                                                                                      management.


Project records                        Pasture field trials and demonstrations.       DPCFP has conducted 50+ pasture
                                                                                      demonstrations. The CAEI has conducted
                                                                                      100+ field demonstrations.


Project records.                        Level of fodder analysis and field trials.    DPCFP offers farmers a fodder analysis
                                                                                      service since 2003.

SISS records.                          Improved turnover time for seed certification, SISS manages an internationally certified
                                       increased number of variety licenses and rate (ISTA) seed testing and certification process
                                       of cost recovery.                              and has achieved 90% cost recovery within 4
                                                                                      years. Variety licensing is not a useful guide
                                                                                      to success in Croatia as the National List
                                                                                      contains too many old varieties. New
                                                                                      regulations and fees will see the level of
                                                                                      licensing fall in the next few years.

                                                                                      This program was dropped at project
Plant protection Institute records.    Improved licensing for agro-chemical use and negotiations.
                                       increased IPM use.
                                                                                      The FSSP has financed six major policy
Number of policy issues under          Quality and timely analysis and advice on a    studies.
analysis/contracted.                   broad range of policy issues.
                                                                                      Capacity has improved, mainly through
Level of staff overseas training.      Increased scope of analysis capabilities.      experiential learning through participation in
                                                                                      project funded studies using international TA.
                                                                                      Longer-term training of policy unit staff is
                                                                                      required.

                                                                                      The MIS periodically monitors and reports
MIS records                            Record of accurate market intelligence         prices on about 350 commodities and
                                       available.                                     provides outlook and forecasting reports on
                                                                                      key commodities.

                                                                                      A methodology and capacity for farm survey
Farm monitoring reports                Broad empirical basis of private farming       has been established, however, the resulting
                                       communities.                                   reports have often been late and were not
                                                                                      widely circulated.

1End of project




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Agricultural Extension                                       7.16            3.52            49.2
Agricultural Research                                        8.03            6.16            76.7
Animal Health                                                6.08            4.52            74.3
Pasture and Forage Development                               2.33            2.88           123.4
Seed Industry Development                                    3.76            2.75              73
Policy Analysis Support                                      2.29            1.95            85.3
Project Management                                           0.35            0.49           141.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         30.00          22.27
                        Total Project Costs                 30.00          22.27
                  Total Financing Required                  30.00          22.27


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.90         0.06         0.00          0.96
                                  (0.00)           (0.80)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.85)
2. Goods                          7.44              0.56         0.31         0.00          8.31
                                  (6.19)           (0.47)      (0.28)         (0.00)       (6.94)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.71         0.00          3.71
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.44)         (0.00)       (2.44)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         4.35         0.00          4.35
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.61)         (0.00)       (2.61)
5. Agriculture Research           0.00              0.00         5.19         0.00          5.19
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.16)         (0.00)       (4.16)
6. Incremental Recurrent          0.00              0.00         0.00         7.48          7.48
Cost                              (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          7.44              1.46        13.62         7.48         30.00
                                  (6.19)           (1.27)      (9.54)         (0.00)      (17.00)




                                                - 24 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.90              0.06             0.00              0.96
                                          (0.00)             (1.45)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (1.59)
   2. Goods                                7.44               0.56              0.31             0.00              8.31
                                          (5.82)             (0.76)            (0.55)            (0.00)           (7.13)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.71             0.00              3.71
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.53)            (1.49)           (3.02)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              4.35             0.00              4.35
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.46)            (0.00)           (0.46)
   5. Agriculture Research                 0.00               0.00              5.19             0.00              5.19
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.59)            (0.00)           (4.59)
   6. Incremental Recurrent                0.00               0.00              0.00             7.48              7.48
   Cost                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (5.48)           (5.48)
       Total                               7.44               1.46             13.62             7.48             30.00
                                          (5.82)             (2.21)            (7.27)            (6.97)           (22.27)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Agricultural Extension         3.18         3.97                     1.85         1.66                  58.2      41.8
Agricultural Research          5.63         2.40                     4.73         1.44                  84.0      60.0
Animal Health                  3.58         2.51                     3.27         1.25                  91.3      49.8
Pasture and Forage             1.71         0.62                     2.13         0.75                  124.6    121.0
Development
Seed Industry Development      1.39         2.38                     1.55         1.20                  111.5     50.4
Policy Analysis Support        1.41         0.87                     1.20         0.75                  85.1      86.2
Project Management             0.10         0.25                     0.07         0.42                  70.0     168.0
Total Project                 17.00        13.00                    14.80         7.47                  87.1      57.5




                                                          - 25 -

 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 Background
 This financial and economic analysis follows the same methodology that was used at appraisal, when five
 farm models were used to illustrate and check the likely farm level technical and production impacts of
 project activities, including extension, research, veterinary services and input (seed) supply. They were
 developed at appraisal using FARMOD. Crop and livestock budgets, which form the basis of each farm
 household model, were prepared at appraisal in consultation with local agronomists and checked through
 field discussions with farmers. Generally, they postulate crop and livestock yield increases of 15 percent in
 the `with project' situation due to higher fertilizer inputs, improved seed, and better animal rations, the
 benefits of improved services under the FSSP. A detailed description of the construction of the farm models
 and other data are contained in Annex E of the Staff Appraisal Report. The models represent a typical farm
 in each major agro-ecological zone and cover all common crop and livestock enterprises. The main
 characteristics of each model are summarized in Table 1 below.


                          Table 1. Primary FSSP Impacts on Model Farming Systems

     Zone/Model                    Farm     Household    Cows     Pigs                     Impacts
                                  Size (ha)  Members
West Continental       Dairy/beef    4.7        4          4        4     Introduce maize silage, better pastures,
Zone                                                                      improved cow rations, cows increased.
Central/East            Slavonia     5.4        4          1        16    More pigs and better rations, better plant
Continental Zone          crop                                            protection.
Continental Uplands    Lika mixed    7.9        4          3        4     Increase potatoes and improve pasture,
                                                                          reduce wheat, increase cheese prod'n.
South Mediter-ranean   Dalmatia      1.2        5          0        3     Better seeds, fertilizer, plant protection.
Littoral               vegetables
North Mediter-ranean Istria mixed    7.8        4          2        3     Better seed and plant protection, more
Littoral                                                                  manure, Lucerne seed production.


 Approach to the ICR Financial and Economic Analysis
 The impact of the project on agricultural production and productivity in Croatia was estimated from a
 variety of sources. They include (i) the FSSP farm monitoring program, which measured changes in inputs
 and production on 892 randomly selected farms between 1988 and 2001; (ii) the Croatian Agricultural
 Statistical Yearbook; (iii) the analysis of Croatian agriculture contained in the 2002 World Bank Country
 Economic Memorandum; (iv) the 2001 Agricultural Competitiveness Study financed under the FSSP,
 which examined all major primary agricultural products in Croatia and (v) the annual reports of the
 Croatian Institute of Agricultural Extension.

 A combination of poor policy, inadequate attention to factor markets, and strong resistance to change from
 the socially owned sector led to a slow, uneven transition over the project period. In 2000, ten years after
 independence, real agricultural GDP was 79% of its level in 1990; and its contribution to GDP had fallen
 from 8.7% to 7.7%. Agro-processing declined even more. The aggregate trends, however, belie a slow but
 expanding process of economic transformation, driven by the adoption by small, private farmers and
 private agro-processors of new opportunities.

 This is not evident at the aggregate level, because private sector growth was offset by the contraction of the
 agro-kombinats and socially owned agro-processors. Small-scale private farms recovered quickly from the
 impact of war and have increased output steadily since 1992. Measured as an index of net agriculture
 production (excluding crops used for animal production), valued at a three year moving average of producer prices;
 as reported by the Croatian Bureau of Statistics. Graphs of output by farm type and type of production are



                                                      - 26 -

presented in Project Files.     By 1998, their production exceeded the level achieved in 1990. The
agro-kombinats and cooperatives, however, failed to respond to the new economic environment. Their
output fell steadily after 1990 until it stabilized at 50%-60% of independence levels around 1995.
Livestock and crop output fell in equal measure, reflecting the inability of these enterprises to adapt to the
constraints and opportunities created by reform.

The annual FSSP Farm Monitoring Survey has captured this, to a degree, in the private farming sector,
although weak analysis of this database limits its usefulness to general trends:
·       expanded use of improved pasture for ruminant nutrition, particularly for milk production,
        reducing costs and raising profitability;
·       rising productivity in the pig sector;
·       increased use and productivity of maize, improved seed and increased crop inputs;
·       rising wheat and barley yields associated primarily with increased fertilizer use;
·       reduced costs in horticulture production associated with increased use of IPM;
·       increased fodder conservation, particularly using maize silage;
·       increased short-term land rental.

On the basis of various data, the original FARMOD file was modified to incorporate:
·       2002 agricultural commodity and input prices in Kuna;
·       variations in production levels as described in Table 2; and
·       updated net protection coefficients for agricultural commodities and inputs as calculated for the
        Bank's 2002 Croatia Country Economic Memorandum. No change was made to farm size, despite
        evidence of increased farm size and reduced farmer numbers in both the farm monitoring survey
        and the national statistics (see Table 1).

      Table 2. Changes to the Appraisal FARMOD files to Reflect Post-FSSP Production Environment

       Zone/Model                                      Main Changes in With Project Situation a/
West Continental Zone     Dairy/beef     · reduce incremental wheat yield from 15% to 10%;
                                         · increase incremental maize yield from 15% to 20%.
Central/East Continental Slavonia crop · reduce incremental wheat yield from 15% to 10%;
Zone                                     · increase incremental maize yield from 15% to 20%.
Continental Uplands       Lika mixed     · reduce incremental milk yield from 20% to 10%;
                                         · reduce incremental cheese production from 600 kg to 200 kg;
                                         · reduce incremental barley yield from 15% to 10%.
South Mediterranean       Dalmatia       · no change.
Littoral                  vegetables
North Mediterranean       Istria mixed   · limit incremental barley, potato, Lucerne hay yields to 10% over base.
Littoral


Financial Analysis
The farm models were analyzed over a 10 year period at a discount rate of 10 per cent, the same rate used
at project appraisal. There were no additional investments required in the models beyond the short term
financing of crop and livestock inputs. Each model showed net incremental farm financial benefits and
positive or neutral (Dalmatia vegetables) returns to labor (Table 3). When future financial cash flows were
discounted at 10 per cent, strong NPVs resulted.

Project benefits are based on the financial farm returns as indicated in the farm models in Table 3. Many
potential benefits outside the farm, including better sanitary and phytosanitary protection, fiscal impacts of



                                                      - 27 -

improved agricultural policy, improved environmental sustainability (through pasture based production and
IPM) and improved export opportunities, have not been included in this analysis. Benefits are converted to
US dollars, determined at the exchange rate at project-end of US$1 = 7.02 Kuna. In order to obtain
financial benefits on a hectare basis, the net annual incremental value of production (in financial terms) of
the individual model farms is divided by the area under cultivation by the respective farm. The resulting per
hectare financial benefits are weighted by the share of the respective farming area in overall agriculture in
the country. This result is a weighted average net incremental value of production per hectare of arable
land, i.e. US$226/ha/year, substantially below the appraisal estimate of US$385/ha/year.

To obtain the potential annual incremental value of production of private agriculture, making full use of
project services, this figure is multiplied by the area of arable land privately farmed (roughly 1.46 million
ha, down from 1.6 million ha. at appraisal). Actual benefits are likely to be realized by only a small portion
of these landholders. An estimate was made at appraisal the 5 per cent of arable land would benefit fully
from the project. While there is strong evidence that the CAEI impacted on a larger percentage of Croatian
farmers than this low level, the figure has been retained for the ICR analysis, which yielded a net annual
benefit of US$16 million. These calculations are described in Table 4. Project incremental financial cost
was determined from actual project cost of US$22.272 million over a 6-year period. Investment costs
amounted to US$16.79 million and recurrent cost was US$4.49 million. Future recurrent cost was
estimated to continue at the prevailing rate over the 10-year analysis period. Replacement costs are
assumed at a level of 20 per cent of total project investment costs. The resulting analysis shows an IRR of
17% Table 5.

Economic Analysis
A similar methodology was used for the economic analysis. Economic prices were determined using net
protection coefficients (NPC) derived from the analysis conducted during the implementation of the CEM.
Key NPCs are detailed in Table 6 and Table 7. Following the inclusion of the revised NPCs in the FAROD
file, the following farm economic results were obtained. While all models show incremental economic
benefits, some are from a negative base. All taxes and duties, amounting to 15.6% of project investment
and recurrent costs, were deducted and the balance allocated over the six financial years. Using the same
approach as for the financial analysis, the results are shown in Table 8, Table 9 and Table 10, which shows
an estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to the completed project of 15 per cent.

                           Table 3. Summary of Results of the Financial Analysis

              Farm Model           Farm Size     Without    With Project Incremental          Present Value
                                       (ha)       Project                                 (at 10% over 10 years)
   1 Istria Mixed Farm                  7.1
      Kuna per Farm                                6092          7823          1,731               8,600
      Kuna per Hour Family Labor                    5.0           5.5           0.5             1,211per ha
   2 Dalmatia Vegetable                 1.2
      Kuna per Farm                               74,731        81,499         6,768              53,527
      Kuna per Hour Family Labor                    37            37            0.0             44,606per ha
   3 Lika Mixed Farm                    5.8
      Kuna per Farm                               13,208        29,178        15,970              127,622
      Kuna per Hour Family Labor                     8            14            6.1             22,004per ha
   4 Slavonija Crop Farm                5.3
      Kuna per Farm                               24,221        29,315         5,094              45,639
      Kuna per Hour Family Labor                    15            19            4.1             8,611per ha
   5 Dairy/Beef Farm                    4.3
      Kuna per Farm                               27,651        32,408         4,757              36,343
      Kuna per Hour Family Labor                    15.0         17.7           2.7             8,452per ha




                                                     - 28 -

                                Table 4. Project Incremental Financial Benefits

     Farm Model                Net         Farm             Net         Regional       Weighted              Estimated    Estimated Actual
                          Incremental Size (ha) Incremental Weight of                 Average Net         Potential Total     Total Net
                            Value of                    Value of          Farm        Incremental         Net Incremental   Incremental
                           Production                 Production        Model in        Value of              Benefit          Benefit
                         ($/farm/year)                 ($/ha/year)        Total       Production          ($million/year)  ($million/year)
                                                                         Arable       ($/ha/Year)
                                                                       Land (%)
Istria Mixed Farm             $247           7.1            $35           20%
Dalmatia Vegetable            $964           1.2           $803           10%
Lika Mixed Farm              $2,275          5.8           $392           15%               $226               $329             $16
Slavonija Crop Farm           $726           5.3           $137           35%
Dairy/Beef Farm               $678           4.3           $158           20%




                          Table 5. Project Net Incremental Financial Benefit (US$ million)

                                Year      Year      Year        Year      Year       Year       Year       Year     Year    Year
                                 1          2          3          4         5          6           7         8        9       10
Incremental Cost a/
Investment costs b/                       $2.8       $2.8       $2.8       $2.8       $2.8        $2.8     $3.4     $3.4     $3.4
Recurrent costs                           $0.9       $0.9       $0.9       $0.9       $0.9        $0.9     $0.9     $0.9     $0.9
Incremental Benefits                                                                              $16       $16      $16     $16
 Incremental Net Benefits       -$3.7     -$3.7     -$3.7       -$3.7      -$3.7      -$3.7     $12.2      $12.2    $12.2   $12.2
IRR                             17%
a/ Based on total project investment and recurrent cost allocated equally over the 6 years of the project
b/ Includes annual replacement cost in years 6-10 amounting to 20% of the total project investment costs



                                     Table 6. Key Net Crop Protection Coefficients

              Indices                            Wheat       Barley    Maize     Rapeseed Sunflower Sugar beet Tobacco Grapes
Actual price                            900       1,060       750       1,200      1,400          270        8,750    3,800
Border equivalence price                579        738        810       1,142      1,898          267       12,955    3,616
Intermediary inputs, actual prices      781        823        745       1,434      1,905          116        4,362     349
Intermed. inputs, border equiv.         505        557        512        920       1,365          75         2,741     187
Prices
Net Protection Coefficient           (outputs)     0.6         0.7       1.1         1.0          1.4         1.0      1.5     1.0
Net Protection Coefficient            (inputs)     0.6         0.7       0.7         0.6          0.7         0.6      0.6     0.5

                                     Table 7. Net Livestock Protection Coefficients

Indices                                                                          Milk       Beef        Pork    Poultry  Eggs
                                                                                           (c.w.)a     (c.w.)a  (c.w.)a
Actual price                                                                    2,800      25,439      16,456   16,216   7,500
Border equivalence price                                                        1,750      20,682      11,694    8,491   6,757
Intermediary inputs, actual prices                                              1,988      13,937      12,498    9,936   6,578
Intermed. inputs, border equiv. prices                                          1,414      11,073      10,344    6,743   4,440
                                            Net Protection Coefficient        (outputs)      0.6         0.8      0.7    0.50.9
                                            Net Protection Coefficient         (inputs)      0.7         0.8      0.8    0.70.7




                                                                  - 29 -

                   Table 8. Summary of Results of the Economic Analysis (Kuna per Farm)

              Farm Model               Farm Size        Without         With Project Incremental                    Present Value
                                           (ha)           Project                                             (at 10% over 10 years)
      Istria Mixed Farm                    7.1            -5,554            -2,215            3,429                    29,191
     Dalmatia Vegetable                     1.2           50,349            55,186            4,837                    41,175
     Lika Mixed Farm                        5.8           -3,689             6,345            10,034                   88,037
     Slavonija Crop Farm                    5.3            2,935             7,507            4,572                    38,823
      Dairy/Beef Farm                      4.3             1,621             5,816            4,185                    35,713

                                    Table 9. Project Incremental Economic Benefits

    Farm Model                 Net          Farm             Net           Regional         Weighted           Estimated       Estimated
                          Incremental        Size      Incrementa Weight of              Average Net Potential Total          Actual Total
                            Value of         (ha)        l Value of Farm Model Incremental                         Net            Net
                           Production                  Production           in Total         Value of        Incremental      Incremental
                         ($/farm/year)                 ($/ha/year) Arable Land Production                        Benefit         Benefit
                                                                              (%)         ($/ha/Year) ($million/year) ($million/year)
Istria Mixed Farm             $488            7.1            $89              20%
        Dalmatia              $689            1.2           $574              10%
        Vegetable
        Lika Mixed           $1,429           5.8           $246              15%              $179             $261             $13
        Farm
        Slavonija             $651            5.3           $123              35%
        Crop Farm
Dairy/Beef Farm               $598            4.3           $139              20%

                        Table 10. Project Net Incremental Economic Benefit (US$ million)

                                  Year             Year        Year       Year       Year       Year       Year       Year   Year   Year
                                     1               2           3           4         5          6          7         8       9      10
Incremental Cost a/
Investment costs b/                                 $2.4        $2.4       $2.4      $2.4       $2.4        $2.4      $2.4   $2.4    $2.4
Recurrent costs                                     $0.8        $0.8       $0.8      $0.8       $0.8        $0.8      $0.8   $0.8    $0.8
Incremental                                                                                                 $13       $13     $13    $13
Benefits
Incremental Net                   -$3.1            -$3.1       -$3.1      -$3.1      -$3.1      -$3.1       $9.4      $9.4   $9.4    $9.4
Benefits
ERR
15%
a/ Based on total project investment and recurrent cost, less takes) allocated equally over the 6 years of the project
b/ Includes annual replacement cost in years 6-10 amounting to 20% of the total project investment costs




                                                                  - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1993-ID                       FAO/IC
              06/1994-Proparatio               FAO/IC and Croatian
              n                                Government

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1994                          Agric., Research, Extension,
                                               Agirc. Policy, Farm
                                               Management specialists
              03/1995

 Supervision

              10/02/1996                  1    ECONOMIST (1)                      U               S
              02/07/1997                  3    AGR. POLICY ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); EXTENSION
                                               SPEC. (1)
              10/22/1997                  3    RE. MGMT. SPECIALIST (1);          S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); EXTENSION
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              12/11/1998                  7    TTL, ECONOMIST (1);                S               S
                                               PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                                               PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                               SEED SPECIALIST (1); AGR.
                                               STATISTICS (1); EXTENSION
                                               SPEC. (1); REASEACH
                                               MANAGEMENT (1)
              06/26/1999                  5    TTL, ECONOMIST (1);                S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); EXTENSION
                                               SPEC. (1); RESEARCH
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
              11/19/1999                  6    TTL, ECONOMIST (1);                S               S
                                               DEPUTY TTL, ECONOMIST
                                               (1); EXTENSION SPEC (1);
                                               RESEARCH SPEC. (1); FIN.
                                               MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                               AG. STATISTICS SPEC. (1)
              05/11/2000                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S               S
                                               DEPUTY TASK LEADER (1);
                                               ECONOMIST (1); EXTENSION
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              12/08/2000                  5    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S               S
                                               SR. FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); LIVESTOCK
                                               EXPERT (1); EXTENSION



                                                - 31 -

                                            EXPERT (1)
               06/13/2001              2    TTL-OERATIONS OFFICER               S    S
                                            (1); FAO/TCIE CONSULTANT
                                            (1)
               12/02/2001              3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            HS    S
                                            AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                            LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1)
               05/25/2002              3    TTL (1); ECONOMIST, TEAM            S    S
                                            MEMBER (1); CONSULTANT
                                            (1)


 ICR
               04/12/2003             2     Agric. Economist, Livestock         S    S
                                            specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n/a                             n/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   n/a                  FAO: 127,365
                                                               Bank incl. TF:
                                                                    165,747
                                                                 Total LEN:
                                                                 293,112.24
  Supervision                             n/a                  FAO: 51,340
                                                                  Bank incl.
                                                                 TF:450,446
                                                                 Total SPN:
                                                                 465,270.54
  ICR                                     n/a                     36,516.30
  Total                                   n/a                    794,899.08




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. "The Experience of other Central & Eastern European Countries in the Transition and EU Integration
    Process",   by Landell Mills in association with DEVCO, 2001.
 2. "A Strategy for Croatian agriculture", by Landell Mills in association with DEVCO, 2001.
 3. "Competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and European Union Association", by Landell Mills in
    association with   DEVCO, 2001.
4. "Agric-environment support policy" by Scanagri, 2002.
 5. "The Establishment of Farm Registration" by Agri-consulting, 2002.
 6. "Food Study" by Scanagri, 2002.
 7. "Extension Management" by Lambert van Gils Stoas, December 1998.
 8. "Farm Financial Analysis" by The Danish Agriculture Advisory Centre, November 2002.
 9. "Seed Variety Protection" by Arjan Kroon Nak, Zagreb, 1998.
10. "Herd Health and Production Management" by C. Bartels Stoas, February 2000.
11. "Animal Hygeine" by Hrvatski veterinarski institut, Zagreb, 2000.
12. "Development of an Epidemilogical Information System" by GFA, 2001.
13. "Design of Digital Vegetation maps of the Graaland Areas of the RC" by Ian Lane, ULG., 1999.
14. "Ensuring Sustainable Financing for Applied Research in Agriculture" by Agriconsulting, June 2002.




                                                  - 35 -

- 36 -

