Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14398-HR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1996
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1994)
Currency Unit = Kuna
Kuna 1 = US$0.18
US$1 = 531 Kuna
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKs   Agrokombinats
APAU   Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit
ARC   Agriculture Research Council
ARF   Agriculture Research Fund
ASAL   Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CLSC   Croatian Livestock Selection Center
CMEA   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU   European Union
FAO/CP   Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FSSP   Farmer Support Services Project
GATT   General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
GOC   Government of Croatia
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAE   Institute of Agriculture Economics
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
IMF   International Monetary Fund
LoC   Line of Credit
LRP   Level Repayment of Principals
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NPC   Nominal Protection Coefficient
NPV   Net Present Value
NS   National Shopping
NSA   National Seed Authority
NVI  National Veterinary Institute
MAF   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOST   Ministry of Science and Technology
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PVR   Plant Variety Rights
SOE   Statement of Expenditures
TA   Technical Assistance
TOR   Terms of Reference
UPOV   International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties
WTO   World Trade Organization
ZESC   Zupanija Extension Service Centers
ZRECU   Zonal Research-Extension Coordination Units



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Loan  and  Project Summary   .............................................
CHAPTER   I.  BACKGROUND   .......                                     ...........              ........................
A.  Introduction   ...............................................                                                                               1
B.  Bank's Country  Assistance Strategy   ................................                                                                       1
C.  Rationale  for World  Bank  Involvement  ..............................    2
CHAPTER II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ...............................                                                                                           3
A.  Agriculture  in  the  Economy   .....................................                                                                        3
B.  Natural Resource  Base    ........................................                                                                           3
C.  The  Social Setting   ............................................                                                                           4
D.  Farm   Structure   .............................................                                                                             4
E.  Agricultural Production  ........................................                                                                            5
F.  Sectoral Development Issues  .....................................                                                                           6
G.  Government's  Agriculture  Development Strategy  ........................    9
CHAPTER III. ISSUES IN AGRICULTURE SUPPORT SERVICES  .......                                                                              .........  10
A.  Agriculture  Extension  and  Applied  Research    .........................                                                                10
B.  Animal Production  Support Services  ...............................                                                                       10
C.  Seed  Industry   .............................................                                                                             11
D.  Market Information  System   and  Agriculture  Statistics  ....................                                                            11
E.  Policy  Formulation  Capabilities  ..................................                                                                      11
CHAPTER   IV.  THE  PROJECT    ......                                   ...........             .......................                                     12
A.  Project Objectives and  Concept  ..................................                                                                        12
B.  Summary  Project Description   ...................................                                                                         12
C.  Detailed  Features    ..........................................                                                                           13
D.  Project Cost and  Financing    ....................................                                                                        20
E.  Project Procurement Arrangements    ...............................                                                                        21
F.  Disbursement  .............................................                                                                                23
CHAPTER V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ............                                                             ..................   25
A.  Project Coordination  and  Management   .............................                                                                      25
B.  Accounts, Auditing  and  Report  ..................................                                                                        26
C:  Monitoring    ..............................................                                                                               26
D.  Bank  Supervision    ..........................................                                                                            26
CHAPTER   VI.               PROJECT  IMPACT                     ...............                     .....................                                  27
A.  Benefits    ................................................                                                                               27
B.  Risks   ..................................................                                                                                 30
C.  Environmental Impact ........................................                                                                              31
CHAPTER VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                                                                                   ........  32



Tables
Table 1: Indicators of Price Protection  ........ .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
Table 2: Cost Summary of Project's Expenditure Accounts  ...... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   21
Table 3: Source of Financing by Component  ....... .  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   21
Table 4: Estimated GOC Budget Contribution by Calendar Year ....................   21
Table 5. Procurement Arrangements  .....................................   22
Table 6: Disbursement Categories .......................................   23
Table 7: Summary of Indicative Financial Analysis  ............................   29
Table 8: Summary of Indicative Economic Analysis  ...........................  30
Annexes in the Project Implementation Plan
Annex A  Project Implementation Arrangements  .         .............................. 37
Annex B. Project Cost Tables ...................................... 115
Annex C. Project Procurement Arrangements . ................................  127
Annex D. Project Performance Indicators ....................................   133
Annex E. Summary Farm Model Analysis ................................... 141
Annex F. Environmental Analysis  .....................................    155
MAP IBRD 27609
Annexes in the Supplemental Volume of Working Papers (available upon request)
Annex G. Natural Resources and Agricultural Production
Annex H. Agriculture Extension
Annex I. Agriculture Research
Annex J. Animal Health Support Services
Annex K. Pasture and Forage Development
Annex L. Seed Industry Development
Annex M. The Policy Analysis Unit: Background and Scope of Work
Annex N. Farm Model Analysis (including models)
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal and an appraisal mission which visited Croatia in
November, 1994 and March 1995, respectively. The project was prepared by the FAO/CP. The Bank's
missions comprised: Severin Kodderitzsch, Task Manager (EC2AU); Garry Smith, Agriculture Specialist
(FAO/CP); John Pesek, Agriculture Research  Management; Geoffrey  Adams, Extension; Garry
Christensen, Agriculture Policy Analyst; John Wrigley, Farm Management Specialist; (consultants). The
Peer Reviewers are: Tjaart Schillhorn-van Veen (AGRTN) and John Cole (EC3AI). Naushad Khan
(EC2DR) contributed to the procurement and implementation sections of this report. Richard Huber
(EC2AU) was responsible for document processing. Margret Thalwitz is the acting Division Chief and
Christine Wallich is the acting Department Director.



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Croatia
Executing Agencg:    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Beneficiary:        Private farmers
Amount:              US$17.0 miilion equivalent
Terms:               17 years, including five years of grace, at the level repayment of principals
(LRP), at standard IBRD variable interest rate.
Objectives:         The project would support the transition of the agriculture sector by providing
technology-related support services that are relevant to the private farmers. The
aim is to improve the income of the private farming community and increase its
productivity and hence the competitiveness of the sector. The project would (i)
change the delivery of technical services to the private farming community and
(ii) restructure and strengthen institutions to meet the needs of a market
economy.
Description:        The proposed project consists of six components: (i) Extension, (ii) Research,
(iii) Animal Health, (iv) Pasture and Fodder Development, (v) Seed Industry
Development, and (vi) Policy Analysis Support.
The project would:
(i) modernize agriculture practices and farm management through private and
public agriculture extension involving farmers in the services;
(ii) improve the applied agriculture research management system ensuring
farmers' participation in the formulation of the research agenda;
(iii) strengthen the private and public veterinary services and, in particular, the
epidemiological services;
(iv) assist in the development of the country's grassland and pasture potential;
(v) provide the regulatory and institutional framework for the seed industry; and
(vi) improve the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policy analysis and
formulation capabilities; and strengthen the agriculture data base available to
policy decision-makers.



- ii -
Benefits:            Private farmers will be the principal beneficiaries, gaining advantage from
improved production technology and animal health services, a strengthened
regulatory framework for the seeds industry, and from government policies and
services more conducive to the development of a vigorous private agricultural
sector. The project would contribute to improving living standards in rural areas
in which small-scale agriculture is a major employer and source of income. The
project will also generate substantial public benefits: disease control and livestock
product sanitary inspection will reduce losses; and improved agricultural
production and policy would foster better resource utilization.
Risks:               The potential resistance at the operational level by the various Government
institutions and services involved in the project to give up traditional influence
and responsibilities following their reorganization is a risk associated with the
project. This would be addressed through a substantial training program for the
staff of these institutions with a focus on farm community participation and on
the rationale for the changes introduced under the project. Associated to this is
the risk of a slow establishment of an Agriculture Research Council and a
National Seed Authority. This is being addressed through considerable technical
assistance provided both during pre-project start-up using Japanese grant funds,
and during early project implementation to work out procedures and to assist
these nascent institutions. A second risk lies in the number and size of
procurement contracts to be implemented during the first project years; to
mitigate a procurement specialist has already been hired to compile the major
packages to be procured during the first project year. A third risk during
implementation stems from limited farmer capacity to form and support private
associations, and the potential limitations of extension and research staff to evolve
with the market economy. This risk will be counteracted by project activities
which will focus technology development on efficiency increases, improved farm
management practices and product diversification; the assurance of unequivocal
Government support to farmer associations and farmer guided extension and
research services; and a focus of project design on farm community participation.



- iii -
Estimated Project Cost:
(US$ Thousands)
Components                           Local     Foreign    Total
Agriculture Extension               3,328      2,947      6,275
Agriculture Research                2,455      4,558      7,013
Animal Health                       1,736      3,611      5,347
Pasture and Fodder Development        874      1,202      2,076
Seed Industry Development           1,967      1,433      3,400
Policy Analysis Support               937      1,156      2,093
Project Implementation Unit           206        116       322
Total Base Cost                    11,503     15,023     26,526
Contingencies:
Physical                            929      1,353      2,282
Price                               568       624       1,192
Total Project Cost                 13,000     17,000     30,000
Financing Plan:
(US$ Thousands)
Local       Foreign      Total
Government                     13,000           -      13,000
IBRD                               -       17,000      17,000
Total                         13,000       17,000      30,000
Estimated IBRD Loan Disbursements:
(US$ Thousands)
Fiscal Year     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Annual          350    2,300   3,700   4,700    4,250    1,700
Cumulative      350    2,650   6,350   11,050   15,300   17,000
Economic Rate
of Return:         28 percent
Poverty Category:    NA
Project ID Number:   8335






REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMER SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
CHAPTER I. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Croatia's agriculture economy was stagnant during the 1980's and declined sharply at
independence due to war and the associated loss of land and livestock resources. The origin of the
stagnation in the 1980's lies in the economic policies of the former Yugoslavia: an inequitable division
of resources between the private and the social sectors, inadequate fiscal and monetary policies,
over-capacities in agro-industry, and domestic market protection. Agrarian policy was not, however, as
rigidly collectivist in Croatia as in countries under central planning. For instance, Yugoslavia's
Constitution of 1974 allowed unlimited leasing of land, and by the end of the 1980s the limit on land
ownership had been raised to 30 ha; the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia places no limit on the
size of private landholding.
1.2   Private farming enjoyed government support in the former Yugoslavia only to the extent that it
benefited the social and cooperative agro-industrial subsector. Agricultural technology development was
focused on large scale farming and aimed at production maximization, paying insufficient attention to
economic sustainability. While some private farmers adapted this technology to meet their needs, most
learned and applied technology which is now widely recognized as being inappropriate in a market
economy. Although a body of technology exists and more can be gleaned from the practices of successful
private farmers, there remains the need to restructure and reorient the agriculture knowledge system. This
includes rebuilding its structure and management, giving it a market focus, making it responsive and
accountable to the private farming community and ensuring its future financial sustainability. Other
support services, such as veterinary services, and the regulatory framework for the seed industry require
considerable institutional reforms in order to overcome the legacy of the past and to increase participation
of the private farming community. Policy formulation capabilities need to be developed in order to ensure
more rational agriculture policies.
1.3   The Croatian Government is committed to the development of the private, family farming sector
within a market economy. To this end, Government has: removed limits on agriculture land ownership;
enacted legislation for the sale or lease of state-owned land and supported the development of institutions
to implement this policy; legislated the sale of former socially-owned enterprises; ceased the use of
subsidized credit through the National Bank of Croatia - which previously represented 80% of direct State
transfers to agriculture; reduced budget expenditures to the sector to some 3 % of government
expenditures; and reduced the use of quotas to control foreign trade. The commitment to the private,
family farm sector is reflected in Government's "Agricultural Policy Strategy" which was approved by
Parliament in March 1995. The Farmer Support Services Project (FSSP) would be fully compatible with
and support the implementation of Government's "Agriculture Policy Strategy".
B. BANK'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.4   Private sector development is the focal point of the Bank's assistance to Croatia, and is a key
element in the development of the agriculture sector. The proposed project would support the reform
agenda outlined in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed on April 20, 1995, by fostering



private sector led growth in agriculture. The project would help Government establish essential public
and private services to support the development of a private, mostly family-based agriculture sector.
Other relevant issues, such privatization of former social sector farms and state-owned land, and trade
and price policies are being handled under a proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan operation,
currently under preparation. A proposed Rural Finance Pilot Project would support rural investments by
facilitating farmers' links with the national financial network. The project is, therefore, one important
element of a broader assistance strategy to the agriculture sector in Croatia, the combined effect of which
would lead the way to a market-based, largely privately owned and operated agriculture sector in
Croatia's reformed economy.
C. RATiONALE FOR WORLD BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.5    This relatively modest project offers the opportunity to assist government in redefining its role
in the agricultural sector, in developing policy analysis capacity, and in laying the foundation, through
a range of limited programs, for the development of a mix of private and public agricultural support
services which are accountable and responsive to the needs of the private fanner. With the break-up and
privatization of large social sector farms and agro-processing units, traditional sources of support services
for private farmers, such as provision of farm advice, extension services, and applied agriculture research
are disappearing. Other services such as veterinary services, seed regulations, agriculture policies and
statistics are in need of restructuring. The project would help fill this gap by supporting, through
contracting out to the private sector wherever feasible, more efficient extension services, agricultural
research and other services essential to the development of a modem, private agriculture sector.
1.6   Investment in support of private agriculture production is also shown to be indicated on economic,
social and technical grounds. Growth in agriculture is crucial to support economic growth, and well
within the realm of technical feasibility. Much of the known technology could be applied or easily adapted
to meet private farmer needs. The project would also contribute to improving living standards in rural
areas in which small-scale agriculture is a major employer and source of income.



-3 -
CHAPTER II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. AGRICULTURE IN THE ECONOMY
2.1    Agriculture is an important sector of the Croatian economy. The share of primary agriculture
(including fisheries) in GDP increased from 10.0 percent in 1990 to 14.6 percent in 1992, mainly as a
result of the fall in industrial production. With food processing included, the sectors share amounts to
some 24 percent of GDP. The agriculture sector (including fisheries and food processing) employs some
15 percent of the active population. Some 41 percent of Croatia's population lives in rural areas.
2.2    Exports of agricultural and fisheries products have increased, both in absolute and relative terms.
Between 1991 and 1994 agriculture exports increased by some 44 percent from roughly US$340 million
to roughly US$490 million. As a share of the country's exports, it increased from some 9 percent to 12
percent during the same period. Imports during the same period fell from around US$560 million in 1991
to US$440 million in 1994, while the share of agriculture commodities and processed food in the
country's total imports remained stable around 11 percent. Hence, in 1994 the agricultural sector had a
modest trade surplus.
2.3    Levels of employment in agriculture have been more resilient than other sectors in the economy.
From 1990 to 1993, employment in agriculture fell by 25 percent, compared with a fall of 50 percent
for the rest of the economy. This is associated with the fall in GDP and the absence of employment in
other branches of the economy. Agriculture has, therefore, been able to provide a buffer during a difficult
economic and social adjustment period.
2.4    Agriculture is likely to play an increasingly supportive role in the development of tourism, in
terms of supplying the increased demand for agricultural products (especially for fruits and vegetables
in the vicinity of the Adriatic coast), and services in terms of specialized forms of tourism such as
farmhouse tourism or hunting and fishing.
B. NATURAL RESOURCE BASE
2.5    Croatia covers an area of about 56,750 km2 or 5,675,000 ha, of which 3,230,000 ha are
agriculture land and 2,030,000 ha is arable land. Croatia has 2,028 km of land boundaries with other
states. It is bounded to the west by the Adriatic Sea, to the northwest by Slovenia, to the northeast by
Hungary, to the east by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and to the south by Bosnia-Herzegovina.
There are three main physiographic regions in the country: the Adriatic region to the west (32 percent
of Croatian territory); the mountainous region in the center (12 percent); and the Pannonian region in the
east (56 percent).
2.6   The coastal area, its hinterland and islands have a Mediterranean climate with mild wet winters
and warm dry summers although some rain does fall in every month of the year. In the central mountain
region the climate is affected to some extent by the altitude but otherwise this region is ameliorated by
the Mediterranean climate of the coast and the continental type climate farther east. Eastern Croatia, or
the Pannonian region has a continental climate with cold winters and hot summers although here again
there is some rain in the sunmmer period, often falling in the form of thunderstorms.



-4 -
2.7    Croatia has some 1.2 million hectares of grassland of which 0.4 million ha are meadows' and
800,000 million ha are pastures. Grasslands thus occupy about 40 percent of all agricultural land but the
proportion of grass to arable varies greatly among regions and agroecological zones. Pasture yields are
very low and average less than 1.0 mt/ha. Low production can be attributed in part to the neglect of these
areas as a resource in favor of intensive systems of grain-based animal production by the former socialist
regime. Meadows and pasture land usually occupy poorer quality land.
C. THE SOCIAL SETTING
2.8    Croatia's population is estimated at 4.78 million. The 1990 household consumption survey
estimated a total of 1.35 million households, of which 96,724 were classified as purely farming
households and 404,355 were mixed households deriving part of their income from agriculture. Some 58
percent of the economically active farmers are 50 years of age or older.
2.9    Ex-social sector farms employ about 40,000 people, cultivates some 37 percent of all agriculture
land (1.2 million ha) of which 22 percent is arable land (430,000 ha), 20 percent of the total cattle and
30 percent of the national pig population. In most cases 50 percent of the assets of these agro-kombinats,
excluding land, has been transferred to employees and local civil servants, the remaining assets having
been transferred to the State. It is rare for privatization of agricultural firms to have proceeded further.
The State currently owns the lands of these farms and the land de-nationalization process, though
legislated, is stalled. The lands are used under temporary, informal rental arrangements, mostly by the
ex-social sector farms, often without payments being made to the State.
D. FARM STRucTuRE
2.10   Croatia's agriculture is marked by a dual farm structure, consisting of numerous small private
family farms on the one hand and some 500 large, vertically integrated agrokombinats (AKs) which have
dominated the sector during the socialist period. The average farm size of Croatia's roughly 500,000
private farms is 2.9 ha of arable land consisting of about eight usually non-contiguous plots. Moreover,
33% of these farms are under one hectare in area and only 2.6 percent are more than 10 ha, though,
more farmers operate enterprises in excess of 10 ha, usually through annual lease agreements.
2.11   Private farmers own about 63 percent of all agriculture land (2 million ha) and 78 percent (1.6
million ha) of arable land. The private fanrning structure essentially falls into two classes: some 400,000
part-time farmers and around 100,000 full-time farmers. First, the part-time farmers often operate on a
sub-subsistence unit of less than 3 ha and with a growing labor constraint due to age. These aged farmers
rent out land, but under the current land policy would not sell, as their land provides security. These
farms will gradually be absorbed by the progressive farmers who already form the production core of the
future. The rate of demise of these units will depend on what security and incentives Government policies
will provide to encourage land transfers.
2.12   Second, the professional full-time private farmers (some 100,000 households) who own from 3
to 10 ha and rent extra land on an annual basis. These farms are generally profitable and often have three
generations working. Despite the lack of technical and financial support, there is a confidence in the
future of private farming as a profitable venture and as an active export prospect. Mixed livestock/arable
1/  Meadows are natural or improved perennial pasture lands on cultivable soils, some of which have a history of fertilization.



-5-
farming predominates with farm sales mostly from grain, horticulture, and livestock products. Farms are
often over-mechanized but, with a rapid growth in contracting services, utilization of equipment is
improving. In the absence of land purchase possibilities and a mistrust of the banking system, tractors
are considered a safe placement of possible surplus funds. A recent survey based on progressive full-time
farmers showed that about 60 percent of full-time farmers own between 5 and 20 ha and 34% had
holdings of less than 5 ha, being mostly in the Mediterranean intensive cropping area.
2.13   The 500 agro-kombinats (AK), often vertically integrated enterprises that not only farm but also
own processing and marketing industries (as well as in addition some 86 agriculture cooperatives)
dominated the agriculture sector during the socialist regime. The AKs were the main source of food
production and received virtually all financial assistance to the agriculture sector to support maximization
of production with little consideration of costs involved. The AKs held the most productive land but,
through inappropriate methods of production, particularly cultivation practices, degradation of the soils
has taken place and yields have been declining. In a market economy, and with progressive withdrawal
of Government finance, the AK system has come under severe financial and operational pressures and
now presents a formidable problem as to what procedures should be instituted to return the land and other
assets to profitable farming systems. The AKs were also set up as a product procurement, storage and
processing bases.
E. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
2.14   Land use is marked by the following features: the predominance of both agricultural land and,
particularly, arable land in the private sector; the extensive areas of meadows and pasture with ownership
of the latter dominated by the ex-social sector; private sector predominance in the viticulture and
horticulture industries; and, the relative importance of cereal and industrial crop (oilseed, sugar beet) as
opposed to fodder production for a predominantly continental climate.
2.15   Maize is by far the dominant crop in terms of area, followed by wheat which is the second most
important crop. Barley ranks a poor third among the cereals and there are smaller areas of rye and other
cereals. Potatoes predominate amongst the non-cereal crops, averaging 60,000-80,000 ha per year and
are followed in importance in terms of area by sugar beet, soybeans and sunflower. Orchards occupy
about 70,000 ha while vineyards cover almost 75,000 ha. Fodder crops are grown on about 172,000 ha
and there are just over 400,000 ha of meadows. Crop yields in the ex-social sector often surpassed those
of the private sector. Better access to credit and hence inputs favored social production, but the social
sector orientation of maximizing production rather than profit was an important contributory factor. This
is best demonstrated by comparing wheat yields, a crop sold mostly to the State, where ex-social sector
farms yielded as much as 70 percent higher than private farms. The latter's maize, however, typically
used for feeding livestock on-farm, out yields the former by more than 50 percent.
2.16   Livestock numbers decreased between 1961 and 1990. The population decrease has generally been
accompanied by a progressive improvement in productivity per head in most sectors. Predominantly
privately owned, 1989 data on herd and flock size in the private sector show about half of private farmers
owned cattle but only about 4 percent had more than five cows, 52 percent kept pigs with only roughly
5 percent having five or more sows, and eight percent kept sheep with about 3 percent owning more than
20 head. By far the largest numbers of cattle, pigs and sheep are kept on average size farms of about 3
ha, but an increasing number of more commercially viable livestock farming units are emerging in the
private sector.



-6-
F. SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT ISSUES
2.17   Due to the legacy of the past regime, the development of the agriculture sector is presently
hampered by major constraints which Government is currently striving to address. These include: (1)
changes in agriculture structures in terms of privatization of agro-kombinats and agro-processing
companies, and in terms of land policy and privatization of agriculture land; (2) rural finance; (3) price
and trade policy reform; and (4) farm support services.
2.18   Structural changes to be introduced in the sector include (i) the further privatization of the now
semi-public assets owned by the agro-kombinats, (ii) the privatization of land (some 37 percent of the
total agriculture land) of these ex-social sector farms which is presently Government owned and is
currently farmed under short-term lease arrangements, either by the agro-kombinats or by private
farmers; (iii) the privatization of the remaining publicly owned agro-processing entities; and (iv) the
development of a land policy which would include the modernization of the cadastre system. The majority
of land (some 63 percent) is, however, under private ownership allowing private farmers to produce and
to provide a supply response to the services introduced under the project; the issue of land privatization
relates to the 37 percent of the agriculture land under state ownership and agrokombinat management that
would be addressed through a possible agriculture adjustment operation.
2.19   Further changes in the sector would also lead to increased competition in commodity and factor
markets. Government is considering an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) with assistance of
the Bank in order to address the privatization question of agro-kombinats and agro-processors as well as
land related issues. Marketing, however, is not a major constraint to the success of the proposed project,
because (i) most farmers at present manage to dispose of their production, even though marketing
channels are not very sophisticated in Croatia, and (ii) agriculture inputs are generally available to
farmers by a fairly broad range of input suppliers. Nevertheless, the project would assist in introducing
market transparency and competition through a limited market information system monitoring sales at
selected central points. Given the sometimes disappointing track record in the public support to
marketing development it is not suggested to add such further activities to the agenda of the FSSP. In
order to increase marketing infrastructure in the country MAF is currently discussing with the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) the possibility of financing wholesale markets in the
vicinity of Zagreb and other major towns in Croatia.
2.20 Rural Finance. Government perceives the lack of access to rural finance services as a major
obstacle to significant renewed investment in the sector, and is concerned that this problem could
ultimately constrain private farm productivity. MAF has requested the Bank to support a Line of Credit
(LoC) to be channeled through selected commercial banks on a pilot basis in order to test effective
demand and to overcome market failures associated with formal bank lending to the emerging private
farm sector. The Bank is considering such a LoC under a separate Rural Finance Pilot Project. In
general, however, farmers have reasonable scope to improve their operations, and introduce efficiency
gains (e.g. fertilizer and animal feeding regime, crop and farm management) without the need for
incremental external finance through farmers own internal cash generations and retained earnings as
observed during numerous farm visits and consistently shown by farm models. Further development,
however, should be supported through the provision of long-term financing of on-farm investments as
envisaged under a possible Rural Finance Pilot Project.
2.21   Trade and Price Regime. The overall incentive structure has improved markedly over the past
years and is likely to continue to evolve in the direction of border pricing indicating the true opportunity
costs of resources to producers. Nevertheless, some issues persist in the field of pricing policies (e.g.,



-7 -
some import quotas, and some floor prices). During the last years of the Yugoslav Federation the policy
environment was characterized by price policies with far-reaching intervention on both the production and
the consumption side, a trade regime based almost exclusively on import and export quotas, and a subsidy
policy pursuing cheap finance through broad interest rate subsidies. The highly distorted incentive
framework of the past was almost exclusively geared towards the support of social enterprises and agro-
kombinats.
2.22   In recent years Croatia's agriculture incentive environment has undergone important change
towards a more market-based incentive system. Consumer prices have been completely liberalized. Import
quotas on many products have been removed and replaced with tariffs. The application for membership
in the GATT / WTO, which has been recently submitted, will spur these changes. On the macro side,
rampant inflation has been brought to a halt through tight monetary and fiscal policies. Independence
and the war have led to a dramatic cut in the agricultural budget, from roughly DM360 million in 1990
to about DM140 million in 1994 which corresponds to a share of 2.6 percent of total government
expenditures compared to 15.0 percent in 1990. Substantial changes have also occurred in the allocation
of this budget. A huge interest rate subsidy was the dominant form of direct farm support during 1991 -
1993 (on average DM150 million annually or 80 percent of the budget). These interest rate subsidies
were discontinued at the end of 1993.
2.23   Croatia's agriculture policy has moved steadily towards the model of more liberalized economies
since the 1980s. Price support to most farm commodities is modest, and much lower than equivalent
levels of support in the EU, with the exception of sugar. Part of this support comes directly from modest
allocations of public funds, while most is provided implicitly through the trade regime. The range of
commodities supported has been considerably reduced over the years, and now includes only those
considered by Government to be strategically important, such as sugar, wheat, maize and milk. Prices
for commodities such as fruit, vegetables, meat and other dairy products are determined by market forces.
Some quotas, though significantly reduced over the past years, remain on sugar, wheat, seed and fertilizer
imports, in particular. Changes of trade and price policies would involve a revision of the operations of
the State Directorate for Commodity Reserves.
2.24   Table 1 below shows nominal protection coefficients for selected agricultural commodities.
Current price and trade policies result in low protection for oilseeds and pork, moderate protection for
cereals and milk and very high trade protection for sugarbeets. Beef, on the contrary, is not protected.
Moderate levels of support for farmers have been retained; most of the support directed to agriculture
accrues, however, to agricultural industries rather than farmers. Private farming historically has been
and continues to be associated with the commodities for which the least protection was granted and the
least price distortions introduced (i.e., horticulture, and animal production, in particular, meat, and to
a lesser extent, milk for which protection is moderate). The social farm sector has typically specialized
in wheat and maize grain production, and in sugar. While the level of protection associated with maize
grain has been moderately high, most maize produced by private farmers is not marketed but fed on-farm
to cattle and pigs (i.e., products without important price distortions). Price policies for wheat, which is
also grown by private farmers, is presently driven by strategic considerations, and likely to change to a
more rational policy, once hostilities cease in the region.



-8 -
Table 1: Indicators of Price Protection
Nominal Protection Coefricients
Yugoslavia a    Croatia b
Commodity                             1987           1995
Maize (grain)                         3.62           1.25 c
Wheat                                 1.29           1.36
Sugarbeet                             3.00          2.93
Sunflower                             n.a.           1.03 d
Soybeans                              1.64          1.34
Oilseed Rape                          n.a.           1.11 d
Milk                                  n.a.           1.25
Beef                                  1.19          0.74 d
Pork                                  1.26          1.21 d
a - Source: World Bank, Yugoslavia Agriculture Sector Update, 1990.
b - Source: Annex M, Supplemental Volume
c - marketed surplus mainly through agrokombinats
d - Croatia: Price Policy Working Paper, FAO, June 1994
2.25   With the exception of sugar, the incentive framework is, therefore, sufficiently undistorted to
allow research and extension services to provide farming advice without leading to resource
misallocations. Financial and economic models of indicative farms, representing major agriculture
production areas and farm systems, further support this view (Annex E and M). It is anticipated that
under the planned ASAL further alignment of domestic input and commodity prices with border price
levels would be supported.
2.26   Support services to agriculture have, in the past, been geared to the agro-kombinats and farm
cooperatives. No support services have been directly available to the private farming community in terms
of extension, applied research, or animal breeding services; veterinary services have, in the past, been
oriented towards social sector agriculture. The seed industry has been left without a regulatory framework
which would enhance private sector participation in seed multiplication and export; agriculture statistics
and the policy formulating capacities of MAF have not been developed under the former Yugoslavia. The
thrust of the FSSP is on improving these services in the short term.
2.27   Agriculture technology is generally inefficient when judged, not only by European standards, but
also by those of elite farmers within Croatia. Efficiency gains in production are available in fertilizer use,
land preparation, crop sowing, crop rotations, and animal feeding, provided the research/extension system
is enabled to respond to farmers' perceived needs.
2.28   Combined, these partly historic constraints continue to curtail the development of commercially
viable family farms in Croatia. In the short term, private agriculture could be substantially supported and
the framework for major structural reforms established through a process of institutional restructuring
leading to increased client accountability and ownership.



-9 -
G. GOVERNMENT'S AGRIcuLTURE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
2.29   Through it's "Agriculture Policy Strategy" approved by Parliament in March 1995, Government
has made a clear commitment to promote the development of private farming within the framework of
a market economy. The objective of Government's agriculture policy is to promote efficiency in
production and marketing, and ensure the competitiveness of the agriculture sector on world markets.
The aim is also to overcome the legacy of large scale kombinats by giving emphasis to the development
of private family farms. This would be achieved by further restructuring of the current system of direct
support to agriculture production from the budget; replacement of import quotas with tariffs; and
reduction of tariffs under GATT's developing country status. Policy actions would also include the
introduction of structural changes in land and asset ownership by the full privatization of former social
sector farms and land, and of publicly owned agroprocessing enterprises; improving rural financial
services on a sustainable basis using both commercial banks and public institutions; tariffication of
remaining import quotas and strictly limiting the commodities for which limited support will be provided;
development of farm support services; and social policies including the reconstruction of war damaged
areas and restructuring of the agriculture pension fund.
2.30   The provision of relevant support services to the private farming community is a key instrument
of MAF's strategy. The need to establish a relevant agriculture knowledge system which would explicitly
allow for participation of the local farming communities, and combine private and public sector elements
in the provision of extension services is clearly recognized. Improving the regulatory framework of the
seed industry, as well as the veterinary services in terms of epidemiological analysis and monitoring, has
also been stressed by MAF as being an important public service. MAF also recognizes the potential of
the country's grassland resources which so far have been under utilized. Policy decision-makers are,
furthermore, aware of the need to improve the empirical basis and analytical methods in formulating
policies. These support services are recognized to have many characteristics of public goods, hence
justifying the public provision of such services.



- 10-
CHAPTER III. ISSUES IN AGRICULTURE SUPPORT SERVICES
A. AGRICULTURE EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH
3.1    Private farming enjoyed government support in the former Yugoslavia only to the extent that it
benefitted the social or cooperative agro-industrial subsectors. Agricultural technology development was
focused on large scale farming and production maximization, paying insufficient heed to profitability and
economic sustainability. While some private farmers adapted this technology to meet their needs, most
learned and applied technology which is now widely recognized as being inappropriate to a market
economy. Although a body of appropriate technology exists and more can be gleaned from the practices
of successful private farmers, there remains the need to restructure and reorient the agriculture knowledge
system, comprising agriculture extension and applied research. This includes redefining its present
mandate and structure, giving it a market focus, making it responsive and accountable to its clients and
financiers and ensuring its future financial sustainability. While public institutions and investment will
be required to initiate the process, the medium term objective will be the progressive transfer of
management and financial responsibility for agricultural knowledge services to the private agricultural
sector.
3.2   Improved technology would enable farmers to increase production efficiency, reduce costs,
increase yield, improve quality and diversify production. Both public and private benefit would ensue,
the latter already in evidence amongst a core group of elite farmers. Instruments to support technology
promotion are presently limited. The main sources of information available to farmers are a small but
competent rural press, ill-trained Zupanija-based2 advisors, some elements of the scientific community,
a recently privatized veterinary service and a small, under-resourced national extension service. These
poorly wedded extension elements generally lack market or farm management focus, are short on
appropriate technology and, in the public sector, are largely unaccountable to their farmer clients. A
stimulus is required which would engage the farmer in constraint analysis and technology development,
better employ the public and private extension resources to address identified needs, increase client
accountability, and ultimately, transfer responsibility for the delivery of technical advice to the private
sector. In a similar way, agriculture research lacks relevance and accountability to the farming
community.  All agriculture research is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Science and
Technology (MOST), and only modestly funded at a level equivalent to roughly 0.2 percent of agriculture
GDP. A detailed description of issues are provided in Annex H (Agriculture Extension) and Annex J
(Agriculture Research) of the Supplemental Volume. The project would strengthen the agriculture
knowledge system by developing public and private extension services and by restructuring applied
research management through a competitive grant based research system. Given the broadly public goods
nature of these services, no cost recovery is envisaged during project implementation.
B. ANIMAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT SERVICES
3.3    Livestock production in Croatia is mainly a private sector enterprise. Animal output provides 40
percent of agricultural GDP. Support services have historically been provided through the government
veterinary service, and public sector breeding enterprises which require reform in order to be relevant
in a private farming context. Clinical veterinary services have recently been privatized and some of the
public functions of disease surveillance and vaccination are now carried out under contract from MAF
by private veterinary stations; however, competition in the provision of veterinary services is still limited
through regional monopolies granted to the newly private veterinary stations. Insufficient epidemiological
2/ Zupanija is the Croatian word for district.



- 11 -
disease control and monitoring has resulted in import bans to key markets in the EU. A new Law on
Veterinary Services is currently being drafted. The draft version of the new law on veterinary services
has been selectively reviewed and assurances were received that (i) the new veterinary law, when
promulgated, will remove constraints to competition in the provision of animal breeding and veterinary
services, in particular, that regional monopolies for veterinary services would be abolished, and that the
prices for clinical veterinary services were subject to a negotiation process between veterinarians and
farmers or their respective representatives; and (ii) animal semen importation is unconstrained outside of
normal quarantine requirements.
3.4    Livestock production has been largely based on housed animals fed mainly concentrates, in
production systems focused on maximum per animal production rather than on optimum profitability
within a sustainable system context. This grain-based feeding largely ignores the comparative advantage
Croatia has through its largely under-utilized grassland and pasture resources (some 1.2 million ha). The
project would improve animal health services, assist in the development of the grassland potential, and
introduce private sector breeding-related activities on a pilot scale. (See also Annex J, Animal Health
Support Services, and Annex K, Pasture and Forage Development, Supplemental Volume).
C. SEED INDUSTRY
3.5    The Croatian seed industry has considerable potential but is constrained by an inadequate
regulatory framework, particularly the lack of Plant Variety Rights (PVR) legislation, and deficiencies
in the present seed legislation. With no statutory authority to regulate the industry and a lack of
transparency in the testing process (including failure to enforce regulations) international suppliers are
deterred from entering the market. Importation quotas are a further constraint. This results in absence
of competition in the provision of plant genetic materials to the farming community, and foregone seed
export possibilities. The project would support the development of the regulatory and institutional
framework within which a private sector seed industry could operate efficiently. (See also Annex L, Seed
Industry Development, Supplemental Volume).
D. MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM AND AGRICULTURE STATISTICS
3.6    Prior to independence, the collection of agricultural statistics was oriented towards production on
ex-social sector farms. The consequent lack of information on private farms has become a serious
constraint to policy analysis, especially following the adoption of a new Agricultural Policy Strategy
which emphasizes the role of family farms. It is difficult to respond effectively to the needs of Croatia's
small-scale family farms when so little is known about the constraints they face and the implications of
policy changes for their well-being. Collection and access to timely and relevant agriculture market and
price information is also deficient. The project would support the establishment of a modest market
information system, and of regular on-farm monitoring surveys.
E. POLICY FORMULATION CAPABILITIES
3.7    Adoption of the Agricultural Policy Strategy has paved the way for widespread policy reform over
the next 2-3 years. The MAF's capacity for policy analysis and policy formation is limited however, both
in available staff and skills. Given the upcoming GATT / WTO membership negotiations and the possible
discussions on EU Association Agreements, price and trade policy formulation capabilities are recognized
as being of the highest priority. The project would strengthen MAF's policy formulation capabilities.
(See also Annex M, The Policy Analysis Unit: Background and Scope of Work, Supplemental Volume).



- 12 -
CHAPTER IV. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT
4.1    The project would support the GOC's agricultural policy by efficiently providing technology-
related support services that are relevant to the private farmers. The aim is to improve the income of the
private farming community and increase its productivity and hence the competitiveness of the sector. The
project would address the need: (i) to change delivery mechanisms for the provision of technical services
to the private farming community and (ii) for institutional restructuring to meet the needs of a market
economy. It would allow public authorities to respond to the service needs of the private farming
community and to ensure that private agriculture and agribusiness irrevocably have a voice in the
formulation of agricultural services and support policies.
4.2    The activities pursued under the project aim to have a major impact on private farming in the
short term and to introduce significant institutional improvements in the medium term. Increased farmer
ownership and accountability of the agricultural knowledge system (i.e., extension and applied research)
are an essential element of project design. The provision of relevant and efficient veterinary services and
support for the shift from a grain-based animal production system to a lower cost pasture-based livestock
industry are other central objectives. Rationalizing the regulatory framework for the seed industry would
also be supported. The project would furthermore seek to strengthen MAF's policy formulation
capabilities and the agriculture data base in order to ensure more rational policy decisions in the future.
No support would be provided to the ex-social sector Agro-Kombinats under the project (with the
exception of the research divisions of the AKs who would be eligible to participate in the competitive
research grant system (see para 4.15)).
B. SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.3    The proposed project consists of six components: (i) Extension, (ii) Research, (iii) Animal Health,
(iv) Pasture and Fodder Development, (v) Seed Industry Development, and (vi) Policy Analysis Support.
4.4    The project would:
(i)  modernize agriculture practices and farm management through extension and applied
research ensuring farmers' participation in these services. Extension would be supported
though the provision of public and private sector extension. The component would include
(a) a comprehensive training program and equipment to the existing county level extension
offices (which would be guided by farmer advisory councils) of MAF; (b) the formation
on a pilot scale of some 45 farmers associations who would hire private advisors on a cost
sharing basis with MAF; (c) the development of 25 extension training packages which
would be used for mass media based extension; (d) an on-farm trial and demonstration
program to be linked to the applied research supported under the project; and (e) the
introduction of farmer based milk recording on a pilot scale;
(ii)  improve applied agriculture research management through the establishment of an
Agriculture Research Council (ARC), with majority representation of the private farming
community. The ARC would define the applied agriculture research program and allocate
resources for research contracts through an Agriculture Research Fund (ARF) to be
established by the project (some US$5.2 million) on a competitive grant basis. The project
would establish four small zonal research-extension coordination units (ZRECU); and a
training program for researchers working on applied agriculture issues;



- 13 -
(iii) strengthen public and private veterinary services. The National Veterinary Institute (NVI)
and its four regional branches would receive vehicles and a comprehensive range of
analytical equipment to intensify the national disease surveillance, complemented by
improved border quarantine posts. NVI national and regional animal health data bases
would be linked to MAF's epidemiological and disease reporting division which would
receive computer equipment and technical assistance. The managerial skills of private and
public veterinarians would be improved through training;
(iv) assist in the development of the country's underutilized grassland and pasture potential
(which represents some 40 percent of agriculture land). Measures would include: a
systematic evaluation of the national grassland resources; improvement of the laboratory
and training facilities of a pasture research station; local and overseas training; laboratory
and field experimental equipment for pasture trials and demonstrations; and  the
establishment of a modest seed bank;
(v) provide the regulatory framework for the seed industry. MAF would establish a National
Seed Authority (NSA), with legislated responsibility to regulate the seed and agro-chemical
markets, in which several institutions would be joined under one coordinated framework.
The NSA would be supplied with laboratory and field equipment for seed variety trials and
certification, plant pathology, and chemical registration; and NSA staff would also receive
overseas training; and
(vi)  improve MAF's policy analysis and formulation capabilities. Overseas training, long term
TA, selected policy studies, and computer equipment would be financed; and the
agriculture data base available to policy decision-makers would be strengthened through a
farm baseline survey, a farm monitoring program and a simple market information system.
C. DETAILED FEATURES
I. Agriculture Extension (US$7.2 million 3; see Annex A and H)
4.5    Public Extension. Under the project the existing public Zupanija (district) extension offices (21
offices with a total staff of 110) would develop into community supervised Zupaniia Extension Service
Centers (ZESC). These would provide the impetus to farmer group formation (see below) and act as a
source of information and specialized guidance to private advisers directly serving the farmers.
Relevance of the public extension services would be ensured through voluntary local Advisory
Committees representing the local farming community and agro-business which would allow for a flexible
reorientation of extension services in line with changing local priorities. All farmers, whether full-time
or part-time operators, would have the possibility to join and influence these advisory councils. Local
Advisory Committees are likely to provide substantial guidance to the public extension services given (i)
the active development and involvement of the recently established Croatian Farmers Association at the
district level; and (ii) the positive response this approach was given by individuals during farm visits, and
during an Extension Workshop bringing together farmers, extension workers and the research community
during project preparation. The establishment of local Advisory Committees may initially be on an ad-hoc
basis requiring some extension support until formal procedures have been established by the individual
Committees.
31 Cost estimates including physical and price contingencies and duties and taxes (see also Annex B).



- 14 -
4.6   The project would develop the required skills, provide means of mass media communication, and
establish the necessary infrastructure for the 21 ZESCs and MAF's Extension Department to ensure
effective dissemination of relevant information to the private farming community. Through the project
the public extension services would be provided with 44 vehicles (two in each ZESC, two to MAF's
Extension Department), 21 sets of basic office infrastructure (including furniture, photocopier, and fax;
one set per ZESC), 67 computers (three in each ZESC and four at MAF's Extension Department), 23
sets of audio-visual equipment (one set per ZESC, two for MAF's Extension Department), and 21 kits
of extension field equipment (including a microscope, tape measures and scales, one kit per ZESC). Each
ZESC would also be provided with a basic reference library and annual subscriptions to farm production
journals.
4.7    Each ZESC would carry out a one-time, farm community based diagnostic survey in order to
develop a thorough understanding of the constraints and potential of the areas they are servicing, and to
give the extension services the opportunity to inform farmers in their area of the new extension approach.
The diagnostic survey exercise would help define the annual working program of the Zupanija extension
service.
4.8    The project would implement a substantial extension training program amounting to a total of
some 462 months, phased over project implementation, including: (i) a trainers of trainer program; (ii)
a one-time general orientation course for each extension staff; (iii) regular and (iv) specialized in-service
training. In addition, study tours and post-graduate fellowships would be carried out by selected extension
experts to get a better understanding of extension issues and operations in other countries. This training
program would enable staff of the extension service to acquire the skills necessary to operate under a
changed mandate. Subjects would include farm business management, financial and marketing skills,
group formation skills, environmental awareness, preparation of mass media and training packages, and
information management. The training of trainer program would be carried out prior to project start-up
financed through a Japanese Grant.
4.9   The project would provide for the development of some 25 thematic trainin,e packa,es for the
ZESCs and other advisers for incorporation within an extension program for farmers. The training
packages would also form the basis of mass media activities which would be developed on a contractual
basis involving the extension, research and broadcasting (radio and television) services. Topics would
include farm business management, improving marketing arrangements of primary producers, and
technical items such as crop and integrated pest management. The project would also develop a Farm
Management Handbook for farmers which would include, inter alia, agriculture price schedules, and farm
enterprise budgets across agriculture zones.
4.10   The project would also support an on-farm trial and demonstration program consisting of some
2,200 field demonstrations over the life of the project which would be carried out through the ZESCs in
coordination with agriculture researchers pursuing competitive grant-based applied research also supported
through the project (see agriculture research component, below).
4.11   Private Extension. The project would develop private advisorv services which currently are
practically non-existent in Croatia outside of the agrokombinats. Under the project, the formation of a
limited number of farmer associations (some 45 associations, roughly 2 associations in each Zupanija)
on a pilot basis would be supported in view of farmer associations employing private advisors in
agricultural production, farm business management; and marketing associations management on a
matching grant basis. Each association would directly employ its own adviser who would be funded by



- 15 -
MAF during the first four years on a cost sharing-basis 4 and receive some basic training equipment, also
on a grant basis. The public extension service would develop standard contracts and provide the newly
established fanner associations with legal advice during the process of hiring private advisors. Private
advisors working under the farmer association pilot scheme would also participate in the above extension
training program. In order to ensure (i) accountability and (ii) the interests of farmers, MAF has provided
the Bank with draft regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, for allocating grants and for supervising and
auditing the public funds under the farmer association pilot scheme. Some ten associations eligible for
support have so far been established in different zupanija, and it is anticipated that most of the
associations would be established during the first two years of project implementation. This pilot scheme
(as well as the pilot scheme described in para. 4.12) would be phased over the four years of project
implementation. Existing farm associations have expressed strong interest in a phased cost sharing
arrangements in view of hiring private advisors.
4.12   Also on a pilot basis, fanner herd recording groups (some 45 in three Zupanijas) would be
supported through the Croatian Livestock Selection Center (CLSC) in close collaboration with the ZESC
to promote farmer-based milk recording. Milk recording data, an important management tool in milk and
animal production would be used by the extension service and the farmer herd recording group. Farmer-
based milk recording would also be a first step in supporting private animal breeding efforts and in
reducing the high costs of recording animal performance presently carried out fully by the public sector.
Project support would include the establishment of small recording groups, the provision of milk
recording and testing equipment, limited number of computers for data processing at the Zupanija level,
and industry staff training including a study tour to selected European animal breeding programs.
4.13   Over the course of project implementation, the extension component would be supported through
international and national technical assistance amounting to 23 person months of assistance (extension
specialists, training specialists, herd recording advisors). The project would also support incremental
recurrent costs including operation and maintenance of ZESCs and MAF's Extension Department offices
and vehicles. No incremental public extension staff would be hired under the project.
4.14   In order to ensure sustainability of agriculture production and the safe use and handling of agro-
chemicals, MAF would develop environmental ('best practice') guidelines for the extension services in
line with applicable environmental legislation as agreed under a dated covenant to the Loan Agreement
no later than April 30, 1997 (see para. 7.1).
II. Agriculture Research (US$8.0 million; see Annex A and I)
4.15   The project would support an applied agriculture research management system to produce relevant
and timely information for the private family farmers through research contracts on the basis of
competitive research grants. Under the project an independent Agriculture Research Council (ARC) with
a majority of farmer representation, and a small secretariat would be established for defining policy, and
allocating resources under an Agriculture Research Fund for applied research contracts on a competitive
grant basis. In order to ensure that a clear understanding on the concept and principles for the applied
research component under the project has been reached, MAF has provided the Bank with a
Memorandum of Understanding, satisfactory to the Bank, signed by the respective Ministers of
Agriculture and Forestry, and Science and Technology, which outlines the responsibilities of the
respective Ministries and of the future ARC for the implementation of the Agriculture Research
component. The research agenda would be (i) open-ended and determined by the ARC, and (ii) would
4/Based on the following formula for private advisor's salary support: 80 percent in year 1, 50 percent in year 2, 35 percent in year
3, and 25 percent in year 4. No support would be provided thereafter. The balance would be provided by the farmer group.



- 16 -
allow for a broad scope of topics to be researched ranging from production technology to market research
and development. Any bona fide Croatian research institution, public or private, would be eligible to
participate under the competitive research grant system and make research proposals in the framework
of publicly announced Terms of Reference by the ARC in view of obtaining research contracts supported
under the project. The ARC secretariat, consisting of one high caliber professional staff and an
administrative assistant, would be provided with a set of office and computer equipment, and a vehicle.
The ARC secretariat would also be equipped with a computer network allowing it to link with MAF and
MOST and the academic networks in the country.
4.16   The ARC would administer an Agriculture Research Fund (ARF) established under the project
providing roughly US$1.3 million during each year of project implementation (i.e., a total of US$5.2
million over four years) to finance applied research contracts on a competitive grant basis. During
project implementation this fund would be financed to a large extent through the World Bank loan
(roughly estimated at around 80 percent) with the balance from budget allocations (roughly 20 percent).
Project funding would increase overall allocations to agriculture research to the equivalent of roughly 0.35
percent of agriculture GDP. In order to ensure that both regional and national research priorities are being
addressed a funding formula would be agreed upon by the ARC prior to project implementation, and
acceptable to the Bank, for a period not shorter than three years, which would allocate funds to the main
agriculture regions (based, for instance, on the relative contribution to agriculture GDP) and to overall
national research. In order to ensure financial sustainability of the Agriculture Research Fund, MAF is
committed to introducing in the course of project implementation modest commodity based levies to be
paid by the producer, once the overall concept has gained credibility within the farming community. This
credibility is largely a function of the relevance and quality of the applied research and the associated
independence of the ARC. The project would provide for technical assistance to review the funding of
the Agriculture Research Fund and make recommendations for the possible introduction of commodity
based levies after project mid-term review.
4.17   Under the project a substantial research management training program amounting to some 168
months of training for applied research staff and the ARC (and its secretariat) would be carried out. This
training program would include a visiting scientist program, research staff orientation courses, research
management training, research management study tours for ARC members, and research reporting
seminars. Training would be provided in particular for researchers who have obtained research contracts
from the ARC. Computer networking of the Agriculture Faculty, University of Zagreb, with international
agriculture data bases would be provided, as would be subscriptions to journals and books.
4.18   Four Zonal Research Extension Coordination Units (ZRECU) would be phased in during project
implementation as the ARC becomes operational and each ZRECU would be provided with office and
computer equipment; each ZRECU would have incremental staff consisting of one economist and one
research/extension specialist. The ZRECUs would (i) serve as backstopping service to the district
extension services by providing specialized advice, (ii) would create a formal link between research,
extension and the farming community and (iii) would be current on research results and provide guidance
to the ARC.
4.19   Prior to project start-up, technical assistance would be provided under a Japanese Grant fund to
develop operational procedures for the ARC and the ARF, as would the procedures for the scientific
screening and review of research proposals, contract administration, and supervision to be carried out by
MOST. Short-term technical assistance (12 months) would be provided over the life of the project
including research management consultancy and training, and expertise on specialized research topics.
4.20   The project would also support the incremental recurrent costs associated with the research
component including: honoraria and travel allowance of the ARC chairperson and members, salaries and



- 17 -
travel allowance of the secretariat and ZRECU staff; operation and maintenance costs for the secretariat's
and the ZRECU's office (including office rents) and vehicles. The institutional requirements to operate
this component are relatively modest, i.e., the ARC which meets some 4 - 5 times a year, a two person
secretariat, the support of the MOST (without incremental staff), and four small ZRECU. The latter
would be phased in during project implementation comprising two professional staff each.
4.21   In order to ensure financial sustainability of the Agriculture Research Fund, it has been agreed
under a dated covenant, that a review of the funding arrangements for the Agriculture Research Fund
(including the possibility to introduce modest commodity based levies) would take place not later than
April 30, 1999 (see para 7.1). Also under a dated covenant it has been agreed that the first of the four
ZRECU would be established by MAF not later than October 31, 1997; and that the three remaining
ZRECUs would be established at the latest by October 31, 1998 (see para 7.1). As a Condition of
Board Presentation, and in view of ensuring efficient implementation of this component through a
phased approach to establishing the new research management system, MAF has established the ARC,
including (a) the nomination of a chairperson and a core council (consisting of at least three farmer
representatives; a representative each of MAF and MOST; and one representative from the research
community); in addition, MAF has identified the secretary of the ARC to be appointed at the time of
declaration of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (see para. 7.2). As a condition of disbursement for
the research component it has been agreed that MAF would (i) have worked-out jointly with MOST
and the ARC operational guidelines (including a funding formula) satisfactory to the Bank (this would
be supported through technical assistance fielded in September 1995 under a Japanese Grant Fund); and
(ii) MAF would have established the full ARC council (see para. 7.3).
III. Animal Health Support Services (US$6.1 million, see Annex A and J)
4.22   Animal health would be improved through the strengthening of epidemiological services leading
to better disease identification and eradication programs. The National Veterinary Institute (NVI) and its
four regional branches would be provided with eight vehicles, and a comprehensive range of laboratory
equipment to intensify the national disease surveillance program (US$2.9 million), a process which would
be complemented by strengthened border quarantine posts. NVI national and regional animal health data
bases would be linked to MAF's epidemiological service, and MAF's national disease reporting service
strengthened through the provision of computing equipment to support national disease eradication, and
international disease reporting requirements. The technical and managerial skills of private and public
veterinarian would be improved through local and overseas training (178 months). The National
Veterinary Chamber would be strengthened. International specialists would support the epidemiological
services, data management and veterinarian training programs (10 months). The project would support
the incremental recurrent cost of disease monitoring and control in terms of salary (two incremental staff
to MAF's epidemiological service), vehicle, and laboratory operations.
4.23   The new regulatory framework (see para. 3.3) will have a major impact on the effectiveness of
the investments for animal health described above and on veterinary services and disease control in
general. Therefore, as Condition of Board Presentation, MAF has carried out a review of the draft
veterinary legislation ('Veterinary Law') through the International Organization of Epidemiology (Paris),
and has presented the draft law to Parliament (see para. 7.2). MAF has assured the Bank that the revised
draft to Parliament includes the abolishment of regional monopolies for veterinary services, and that the
law foresees prices for clinical services to be subject to a free negotiations process between farmers and
veterinarians or their respective professional representatives.



- 18 -
IV. Pasture and Fodder Development (US$2.3 million, see Annex A and K)
4.24   The Grassland and Fodder Development component would initiate an evaluation of the national
grassland resources using recently completed national vegetation maps supported by field observations.
An international pasture/livestock economist would provide guidance to the pasture program during early
project implementation. Concurrently, laboratory and training facilities at the Slejme Pasture Research
Station of the University of Zagreb would be improved and expanded (detailed designs have already been
completed) and a comprehensive program of post-graduate and in-service training in pasture management
initiated (in particular for farmers and extension service staff). Laboratory and field experimental
equipment would be provided to support an adaptive natural and improved pasture trial and demonstration
program, supported by limited specialist technical assistance. Pasture trials and demonstrations would be
carried out in close collaboration with research institutions and extension services across the country.
Linkages to European pasture research networks would be improved. The program would also support
the University-based forage breeding program and establish a modest seed bank at the Agricultural
Faculty, Zagreb. These activities would support the shift from a grain-based to a pasture and fodder-based
animal feeding system. Once this component has been implemented under the project, grassland research
would compete for research funds from the ARC under the competitive grant research system.
V. Seed Industry Development (US$3.8 million; see Annex A and L)
4.25   Government is committed to bringing the seed industry into line with European norms. To this
effect, new seed legislation is drafted, and an application made to join the International Union for the
Protection of New Plant Varieties (UPOV). Investment in the completion of the regulatory framework
and establishment of a statutory seed industry regulatory body would accelerate this process, ensuring
better seeds for Croatian farmers and improved export opportunities for seeds. The project would provide
the intermational expertise and staff training required to establish and implement a seed industry regulatory
framework in line with European Union requirements. A National Seed Authority (NSA) would be
established with legislated responsibility to regulate the seed and agro-chemical markets and which would
amalgamate several institutions under one coordinated framework. The NSA would be responsible for
seed testing and certification, agro-chemical registration, and development of Integrated Pest
Management. Inspection of commercial seed multiplication would be carried out by private sector
inspectors under license from NSA. The NSA would incorporate the existing seed testing and border
quarantine services of MAF; the Plant Protection Institute, the Viticulture Institute and the services to be
established for seed testing of plant material under the project.
4.26   Project support to the NSA would include: laboratory and field equipment for variety trials, plant
pathology, seed and chemical testing; eight vehicles for field work and equipment transportation; in-
service training (50 months) for private seed certification inspectors; specialized overseas training in seed
testing and variety trials; 18 months of technical assistance; and incremental staff (about 25 professional
staff phased over the course of project implementation of which 11 would be at NSA headquarters and
7 at each of the two field trials sub-centers), office rental, and vehicle and equipment operating expenses.
4.27   The new seed legislation I will have a major impact on the future of the seed sector and the
impact of the NSA supported under the project. In order to ensure a meaningful use of the investments
supported under the project, it has been agreed that Croatia would (i) have enacted the new seed
legislation (the draft of which would have been reviewed by the Intermational Union for the Protection
of New Varieties of Plants (Geneva), and the Intermational Seed Testing Association (Zurich),
respectively, and comments included in the revised draft law presented to Parliament); (ii) MAF would
5/Consisting of the Law on Plant Variety Protection, and the Law on Plant Variety Approval.



- 19 -
establish the National Seed Authority (NSA), (iii) appoint a director satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv)
obtain suitable locations for setting up core NSA infrastructure as a condition of disbursement for the
seed industry component (see para. 7.3). In order to ensure farmers' access to good plant genetic
material and competition in the subsector, it has been agreed that at the latest under a dated covenant,
at the latest by October 31, 1997 Government would convert all existing import quotas to tariffs (see para
7.1). In view of ensuring the financial viability of the NSA, preparation of a schedule on cost recovery
for the NSA by no later than six months after establishment of the NSA has been agreed upon under a
dated covenant (see para. 7.1).
VI. Policy Analysis Support (US$2.3 million, see Annex A and M)
4.28   The project would strengthen the policy formulation capacity of MAF's restructured Agriculture
Policy Analysis Unit (APAU) through: (i) staff overseas training (15 months); (ii) a long-term resident
and short-term international TA (24 months); (iii) funds to contract studies on pressing policy issues (a
total of 5 major studies; topics include: rural land markets; marketing development, sugar, oilseeds,
dairy, and fertilizer subsector studies) and (iv) computing and some office equipment and a vehicle. In
addition, the project would strengthen the empirical basis required for decision makers by establishing
a simple market information system and by carrying out under contract with the Institute of Agriculture
Economics, University of Zagreb, a baseline survey, and a farm monitoring survey program. The project
would also support recurrent costs associated with this component. These costs include: salaries for four
incremental professionals and support staff at the APAU, and ten part time market enumerators; travel
allowance and car mileage; and incremental operating costs of APAU including publishing of policy
reports, and market news communication.
4.29   The market information system would record prices and marketed quantities for key commodities
and inputs at some ten central locations throughout the country on a daily basis. The data would be
transmitted to MAF's APAU by fax/modem, analyzed and forwarded to a national radio station for
broadcasting on the same day.  A baseline survey would be carried out early during project
implementation by the Institute of Agriculture Economics, University of Zagreb (which would be
provided with software and computing equipment) to provide up-to-date information on factors such as
demographic characteristics, the farm resource base, cropping patterns and livestock holdings, levels of
production and marketed surplus, the level and composition of farm income and expenditure, and the
contribution of non-farm income to total household income. It would also include behavioral and
attitudinal variables. A second, smaller and on-going survey would then be initiated as the basis for an
annual monitoring of the status and the changes on family farms. This second survey will be of a size
(in terms of both numbers and data collected) which allows rapid data collection, processing and analysis.
4.30   Staff development is key to the success of this component. Therefore, under a dated covenant,
MAF would staff the Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit with four additional policy analysts at the latest
by October 31, 1996 (see para. 7.1). In view to assist the Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit during
implementation, the APAU would exchange views annually on its work program with the Bank (see
para. 7.1).
Project Implementation Unit (US$0.3 million)
4.31   A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within MAF under the Department
of International Relations. The PIU would be responsible for overall project implementation and
coordination. This Department has already acquired substantial experience in procurement under the
agriculture component of the Bank-financed Emergency Reconstruction Project. MAF has assigned the
Deputy Ministers, International Relations, and Agriculture as the project manager and the deputy project
manager, respectively. MAF has also hired an implementation officer for the PIU who would be



- 20 -
responsible for the day-to-day management of the PIU on a full-time basis. The latter has received basic
training in World Bank procurement procedures. In addition, MAF would assign a full time procurement
staff, a financial officer, and an administrative assistant to the PIU. The PIU would receive two vehicles,
and office and computing equipment, and be supported by two months of technical assistance to carry
out the project mid-term review.
4.32  In order to ensure expedient project start-up, as a condition of Board Presentation, MAF has
appointed the procurement staff, and has identified a financial officer and an administrative assistant who
would be appointed on a full-time basis to the PIU upon Loan effectiveness (see para. 7.2). PIU staff
members would be provided training in procurement and disbursements through Bank-organized seminars
and workshops prior to project start-up using a Japanese Grant fund. In light of MAF's current
procurement experience and the appointment of procurement staff, MAF is judged to be capable of
undertaking procurement under this project.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
4.33   Project Costs. The total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$30.0 million
of which the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$17.0 million (56.6 percent). Project cost
summary is presented in Table 2 below. Detailed project costs are given in Annex B. Taxes and duties
amount to about 16 percent of total project costs (US$4.7 million). Incremental recurrent costs represent
some 25 percent of total project costs.
4.34   Project Financing. The World Bank would provide a loan amounting to US$17.0 million (i.e.,
the equivalent of the foreign exchange component). The World Bank loan would finance all direct and
indirect foreign exchange associated with project costs net of taxes and duties. The balance (including
taxes and duties) would be financed by GOC. Table 3 shows the sources of finance by component.
4.35  Incremental recurrent cost. All incremental recurrent costs associated with the project would be
funded from Government resources. Annual incremental recurrent costs after project implementation are
estimated to amount to approximately US$2.3 million equivalent.
4.36   Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact on Government budget is estimated to amount to approximately
US$13.0 million equivalent over the project implementation period. The Ministry of Finance has
repeatedly stated that this project is considered to be of high priority and, as implementation would
commence in full only after the beginning of 1996, the budget would assure the necessary counterpart
funding in CY1996 and onwards. The Bank has been informed that MAF has submitted a budget proposal
for CY96 which requests an adequate level of counterpart funding. Table 4 below gives a breakdown of
the estimated annual fiscal contribution to the project over the calendar years of the implementation
period.
4.37  Japanese Grant. A Japanese Grant Agreement to fund project start-up activities in the amount of
US$535,000 has been signed by the Ministry of Finance on March 20, 1995.



- 21 -
Table 2: Cost Summary of Project's Expenditure Accounts
Kuna Thousands                 US$ Thousand            %    % Total
Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Agriculture Extension       16,642    14,737    31,379     3,328     2,947    6,275      47      24
2. Agriculture Research        12,274    22,789    35,063     2,455     4,558    7,013      65      26
3. Animal Health                8,680    18,057    26,737     1,736     3,611    5,347      68      20
4. Pasture and Forage Development  4,369  6,009    10,378       874     1,202    2,076      58       8
5. Seed Industry Development    9,833     7,167    17,000     1,967     1,433    3,400      42      13
6. Policy Analysis Support      4,687     5,779    10,465       937     1,156    2,093      55       8
7. Project Management           1,030      579      1,609       206       116     322       36       1
Total BASELINE COSTS           57,514    75,116   132,630    11,503    15,023   26,526      57    100
Physical Contingencies        4,644    6,764    11,407        929     1,353    2,282      59       9
Price Contingencies           3,184     3,526    6,710        568       624    1,192      52       4
Total PROJECT COSTS            65,341    85,405   150,747    13,000    17,000   30,000      57    113
Table 3: Source of Financing by Component
(US$ Thousands)
Component                         Govermment    IBRD         Total      % IBRD
1. Agriculture Extension             3,972        3,184     7,156          23.9
2. Agriculture Research              2,403        5,630      8,033         26.8
3. Animal Health                     2,506        3,576      6,082         20.3
4. Pasture and Forage Development      619        1,712      2,331          7.8
5. Seed Industry Development         2,375        1,387      3,762         12.5
6. Policy Analysis Support             874        1,413      2,286          7.6
7. Project Management                  251           98       349           1.2
Total Disbursement           13,000       17,000    30,000         100.0
Table 4: Estimated GOC Budget Contribution by Calendar Year
(US$ Thousands equivalent)
CY1996        CY1997         CY1998         CY1999         CY2000
1,600         2,600          3,300          3,200          2,300
E. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.38   Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5 below. The PIU  (see paras.
4.31, 5.2 and 4.31, 5.2) would have the overall procurement responsibilities under the project. Detailed
procurement arrangements (including procurement methods and major packages) are described in Annex
C of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). A General Procurement Notice has been published in the



- 22 -
Development Business on September 16, 1995. Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or
above would be procured through International Competititive Bidding (ICB).
Table 5. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure                         ICB              NCB            Other            NBF       Total
Goods                                           7,437            562   (a)       307      (c)              8,306
(6,193)          (472)           (284)                     (6,949)
Civil Works                                                      904   (b)        56      (d)               960
(796)           (49)                      (845)
Consulting Services and Studies                                                 3,713    (e)               3,713
(2,441)                   (2,441)
Training                                                                        4,351    (f)               4,351
(2,610)                   (2,610)
Agriculture Research                                                            5,194    (g)               5,194
(4,155)                   (4,155)
Incremental Recurrent Cost                                                                      7,476      7,476
()        ()
Total                                           7,437            1,466         13,621           7,476    30,000
(6,193)         (1,268)         (9,539)           (-)      17,000
NBF: Non-Bank financed.
Note:Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
(a)National competitive bidding: (aggregate amount financed US$0.47 million) for office furniture (two contracts)
(b)National competitive bidding: One civil works contract for the rehabilitation of the Sljeme Pasture Research Station and the
construction of the Pasture Laboratory and Training Facility at said station; (aggregate amount financed US$796,000) .
(c)National shopping: (aggregate amountfinanced $0.28 nillion) audio-visual equipment, srall-scale irrigation equipment, and herd
recording equipment.
(d)National shopping: (aggregate arnount financed US$0.049 million) for a single civil works contract for establishment of small
genebank.
(e) Consultant services (aggregate amount financed US$ 1.68 million) for advisors, national and international experts (in part to
prepare local training courses and curricula), and policy studies to be engaged in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants. Consulting services to be grouped into six major contracts.
National advisors to be hired individually byfarmer associations (aggregate amountfinanced US$0.76 million); total of 45 advisory
contracts to be concluded.
fTraining, at home and abroad, andfellowships (aggregate amountfinanced US$1.9 million). Local in-service trainingfor extension
service staff, research staff, veterinary institute staff, carried out by MAF, ARC, NVI, NSA partially in conjunction with above
consulting services; includes development offarmer based herd recording through CISC.
Direct purchasing (aggregate amount financed US$0. 340 million) of specialized research and extension publications and journals
(ranging from US$20 - 250).
National shopping (aggregate amount financed US$0.37 million) for the publication of a farm management handbook; a veterinary
journal; and extension mass media packages (some 30 contracts up to US$30,000).
(g)Competitive Grant Research: (aggregate amount financed USS4.2 million) for applied agriculture research contracts awarded to
national qualified research organizations based on research TORs established by ARC, research proposals submitted by research
organizations, evaluations carried out by independent research review panel (some 50 research contracts ranging from US$50,000
to 150,000).



- 23 -
4.39   Incremental operating costs. Incremental operating costs would be fully financed by Govermnent
with recurrent cost items procured in accordance with regular Government procedures.
4.40   Procurement Review. The Bank would conduct a prior review of all ICB packages and of the first
NCB and all NS procurement packages for civil works, and the first NCB for goods. Prior Bank approval
would also be sought for all direct contracting. In addition, prior review would be undertaken for all
consulting contracts above US$100,000 (firns) and US$50,000 (individuals). The Bank's standard
bidding documents would be used for ICB packages and for the recruitment of consultants.
4.41   Procurement information to be provided by the Borrower. The Borrower would promptly inform
the Bank of contract award and procurement issues and would include the following procurement
information in its progress reports:
(a) or equipment/materials, work contracts, technical assistance, training and study tours: status and
timing of all pending activities; and
(b) status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
F. DISBURsEMENT
4.42 The proposed World Bank loan of US$17.00 million would be disbursed over 6 fiscal years 6.
The closing date of the Loan would be June 31, 2001. Disbursements would be made against the
following categories (Table 6):
Table 6: Disbursement Categories
(US$ Thousands)
Amount       Percentage of
Expenditures to be
Financed a
1. Civil Works                          750           90%
2. Goods                              6,700   100%   of  foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); 85% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally.
3. Consulting Services and Studies    2,000           70%
4. Training                           2,300           55%
5. Agricultural Research Contracts    3,800           80%
Unallocated                           1,450
Total                 17,000
a - net of taxes and duties
6/ This includes the last six months of FY96.



- 24 -
4.43   Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$300,000 equivalent would
be made against normal documentation. For contracts below that level, disbursements would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and would be kept available for examination by Bank
missions, with appropriate documentation retained by the PIU.
4.44   Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would establish,
maintain and operate a Special Account, under condition acceptable to the Bank. During the early stage
of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$1.0 million. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$5.0 million, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$1.5 million by submitting the relevant
Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months,
and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. These
authorized allocations have been finalized with the Borrower during Negotiations (see para. 7.1).
4.45   A Government Budget Account (GBA) for the project would be established as an identifiable
project line item under the regular budget of MAF which would be used (a) in full payment of all
recurrent costs associated with the project; (b) in payment of all taxes and duties associated with the
project; and (c) to replenish the Project Bank Account (see below). In addition, a Project Bank Account
(PBA) denominated in Kuna would be used in payment of local contracts (i.e. civil works, agriculture
research contracts, local consulting services and studies, training) financed jointly under the Bank's Loan
and from the Government budget in order to avoid separate payment of suppliers from two distinct
accounts. The PBA would be replenished on a quarterly basis (a) from the SA upon request of MAF
(PIU) and authorized by MOF; and (b) from the Government budget account for the project.
4.46  In order to ensure efficient project implementation, two Conditions of Disbursement for individual
components have been agreed upon for the following components: (1) Agriculture Research: (i) MAF
would have worked-out jointly with MOST and ARC operational guidelines (including a funding formula)
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) MAF would have established the full ARC Council (see para. 7.3); and
(2) Seed Industry Development: Croatia would have enacted the new seed legislation, and MAF would
have (a) established the National Seed Authority (NSA), (b) appointed a director satisfactory to the Bank
and (c) obtained suitable locations for setting-up core NSA infrastructure (see para. 7.3).



- 25 -
CHAPTER V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    The project would be implemented over a period of four years (mid-CY1996 to mid-CY2000)
after a period of intensive pre-project activities in CY95 and CY96 financed under a Japanese Grant.
Prior to project effectiveness major packages for procurement during the first year of implementation
would be compiled. In order to ensure that the PIU staff and others involved in project implementation
understand the implementation arrangements including procurement and disbursement requirements, the
Bank has organized a one-week project start-up seminar during January 1996. Given the legal reforms
introduced and the support of the envisaged TA under the projects, the institutions involved are judged
to capable of implementing the project components.
A. PROJECT COORDINATION ANI) MANAGEMENT
5.2    Overall Project Implementation. MAF  would take overall responsibility  for project
implementation. Detailed implementation arrangements prepared jointly with the Borrower are given in
Annex A of the PIP.
5.3    Extension. The Deputy Minister, Extension, would take responsibility for implementing the
agriculture extension program.
5.4    Research. The Deputy Minister, Agriculture, together with the project manager would coordinate
the establishment of the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) and provide guidance to the ARC during
project implementation. The ARC, responsible for the allocation of the national applied agriculture
research budget under the ARF through research contracts under a competitive selection system, would
be independent of the MAF in its operational and budgetary decisions but answerable to the Minister of
Agriculture and Forestry. MOST will be responsible for the general administration of applied research
contracts using procedures acceptable to the Bank; this would include inter alia screening research
proposals, and off-site and on-site supervision of research work.
5.5    Animal Health. The animal health program would be managed by the MAF's Veterinary
Department while diagnostic wok would be under the responsibility of the NVI.
5.6   Pasture and Fodder Development. The grassland program would be managed and implemented
by the Department of Grassland and Fodder Development, Agricultural Faculty, Zagreb University.
5.7   Seed Industry Development. MAF's Agriculture Department would establish the National Seed
Authority (NSA) which would subsequently administer the national seed industry quality control and
regulatory policy, as well as agro-chemical registration.
5.8   Policy Analysis Support. MAF's Policy Department would be responsible for restructuring its
Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit, hiring the required additional staff, contracting selected policy studies,
and for establishing the market information system. The one-time farm baseline survey and the annual
farm monitoring exercises would be carried out by the Institute of Agriculture Economics, University of
Zagreb.
5.9   Technical Assistance. The TA program envisaged for the project (some 75 months amounting
to some US$1.8 million) is essential for project success. In order to ensure timely recruitment of key
TA, it has been agreed that the extension specialists, the research management specialist, the veterinary
epidemiologist, the pasture/livestock economist, the seed certification specialist, and the long-term policy
specialist would be hired at the latest by October 31, 1996 under a dated covenant (see para. 7.1).



- 26 -
B. AccouNTs, AuDrrING AND REPORTING
5.10   Accounts. Separate and auditable project accounts would be established with the PIU in MAF and
project expenditures (irrespective of sources of funding) would be kept separate and identifiable. These
would comprise inter alia (i) a record of withdrawals on the Bank Loan with copies of all disbursement
requests and underlying documentation; (ii) a record of transactions on the Special Account and copies
of the bank statements on this Account; and (iii) project related expenditures incurred directly by MAF.
These records would be monitored on an up-to-date basis, and quarterly statements of transactions and
balances, together with updated procurement contract information, would be forwarded to the Bank.
5.11   Audits. Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors and under terns of
reference acceptable to the Bank. Sperate audited financial statements would be prepared for the SA, and
for the project accounts (including Statement of Expenditures). Separate financial records would be kept
and audited annually for the Agriculture Research Council, and the National Seed Authority, respectively.
All audit reports would be made available to the Bank at the latest four months after the end of the fiscal
year.
5.12   Reporting. MAF will prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December 1 of each year during the
disbursement period, forward looking technical and financial projections in a format acceptable to the
Bank, and review with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of this projection, including the
proposed forthcoming annual budget for the Project and any measures that need to be taken during the
following year to ensure proper execution of the project. Assurances on these auditing and reporting
requirements have been obtained during negotiations (see para. 7.1 ).
5.13   A semestrial report on project progress and linked to the quarterly unaudited statements would
be submitted to the World Bank by the PIU and a comprehensive annual report would be compiled which
would include the results of monitoring activities based upon inter alia on the Project Performance
Indicators (see Annex D). A project completion report would be prepared by the PIU and MAF upon the
completion of the project.
C. MONITORING
5.14   Monitoring of the project's impact on the private farming community would be carried out
through a baseline survey in the first year of the project and through annual farm monitoring exercises
under taken by the Institute of Agriculture Economics (see para. 4.29). In addition, performance
indicators would be monitored by the PIU for each component. Project Performance Indicators jointly
developed with MAF are presented in Annex D of the PIP, and have been agreed upon during
negotiations (see para. 7.1).
D. BANK SUPERVISION
5.15   The project would be supervised by the Bank on average twice a year, however, one additional
start-up mission would be necessary, including a start-up workshop; the cost in that year is expected to
be 24 staff weeks (involving expertise in the field of extension, research management, seed testing and
certification) falling to 18 staff weeks in each of the subsequent years. A Mid-term Review would be
carried out at the latest by April 30, 1998 (see para. 7.1).



- 27 -
CHAPTER VI. PROJECT IMPACT
A. BENEFITS
6.1    Private farmers will be the principal beneficiaries, deriving advantage from inproved production
technology and animal health services, and a strengthened regulatory framework for the seeds industry
and from government policies and services more conducive to the development of a vigorous private
agricultural sector. The project would contribute to improving living standards in rural areas in which
small-scale agriculture is a major employer and source of income. The project would also contribute to
increased productivity and production, as well as to an improved domestic food supply. Adaptive and
applied research would initially be focused on areas yielding quick returns, as part of a confidence
building process for the farming community and the extension and research services. Improved production
efficiency through better soil and crop management and crop rotations, and improved agro-chemical use
in the cropping sector; and improved returns from dairy and sheep production through better nutrition
and health care are likely early outcomes. Private farm advisors and public extension staff, trained in
financial and farm management principals, would assist farmers in making more rational investment
decisions. The investment will also generate substantial public benefits: disease control and livestock
product sanitary inspection will improve, and improved agricultural production and policy is likely to lead
to better resource utilization.
6.2   Improved Support Services. Farmers would have access to advisory services in which they have
ownership - the cost partly shared with Government - that are better able to respond, both quantitatively
and qualitatively, to needs and opportunities. Public extension and research staff would be more
accountable to farmers and adequately resourced, both materially and conceptually, to meet the demands
of the emerging commercial family farms. Staff motivation is also expected to improve.
6.3   Institutional Reforms. The process of resource transfer in the agricultural knowledge system from
wholly public to a partnership of farmers and agri-business will be initiated leading to a longer-term
possibility for public and private sector cooperation. The capacity to deliver timely, accurate market and
sectoral information will be improved.
Increased Farm Incomes (see Annex E)
6.4    Quantifying the incremental impact of the broad range of project activities which to a large extent
are of an institutional development nature is notoriously difficult, given the numerous non-service factors
influencing decision-making at the farm level. General research indicates that economic returns to
investments in agriculture research and extesnion as well as in other services can be very high. As an
approximation, indicative financial and economic farm models have been prepared to assess the likely
impact of project activities at the farm level. Farm models across the main agro-ecological zones of the
country and representing major production systems are presented in Annex E (and N of the Supplemental
Volume). The models are indicative and it is believed that they reflect changes which are likely to occur
on farms which are exposed to more focused extension services and have access to improved management
advice, seed, livestock and other inputs.
6.5    The crop and livestock budgets which form the basis of each farm/household model were
prepared in consultation with local agronomists and economists and checked by field discussion with
farmers, where possible. Generally they postulate crop yield increases of about 15 percent with project
and include higher fertilizer, better seed inputs and improved livestock rations. Farm size has been held
constant between without and with project situations, although there are changes in cropping patterns with
project. The investments to expand farm size, buy additional machinery or livestock or to install



- 28 -
irrigation, are excluded from these models as currently medium to short term credit is not available to
farmers. Model farm size is typically in the range of 5 to 7 ha (except for the intensive Dalmatia
Vegetable model). This is a little larger than average private farm size in these regions but there are many
such farms and it is considered that they are likely to respond first to improved support services. Labor
budgets show substantial annual surpluses of family labor in all models, without and with project.
Seasonal peaks in labor demand require use of hired labor in the intensive vegetable models and most
models do require incremental family labor with project. Household consumption of farm produce has
been included in each model and meets staple grain, milk, egg and meat needs in most cases (with the
exception of the high value vegetable model). Farm families will have to draw upon the cash surpluses
shown in each model to cover other food and living expenses. Overhead costs are also included in each
model to cover business expenses not readily allocated to individual crop or livestock enterprises. Such
costs are mostly in the range US$1,450 to US$1,800 per farm and cover electricity, other fuel, land tax
and insurance, tractor and equipment services and labor, not related to individual crop activities.
6.6    As very few private farms in Croatia have access to short or long term credit, the financing of
production inputs in these models follows reality as in both without and with project situations 100
percent of operating costs are financed by retained farm earnings from the previous year. Incremental
production costs typically lie in the range of US$715 to US$2,200 per farm, or a little under half of the
expected gross value of incremental revenue. This is within the capacity of most model farms to finance,
either from without project retained earnings, from off-farm income, or by moving to the with project
situation in steps phased over two or three years. Each model attempts to meet it's livestock feed needs
from on-farm forage and crop production, in line with usual practice in Croatia. The nature of much of
the new technology proposed is such (better seeds, additional fertilizer) that it is likely to be accepted
promptly when the benefits are demonstrated clearly.
6.7    Financial analysis of the five models (see Table 7) indicates that: (i) project activities are likely
to yield sufficient incremental financial benefit to farmers to encourage them to participate in or actively
use better extension, animal health services, seeds and market information (on average returns of 45
percent, ranging from 8 to 92 percent over the without project situation; (ii) in most of the models
farmers clearly have the ability to fund incremental short term inputs from internal cash generation, e.g.:
monthly milk payments or pig sales. In the Istrian model it may be necessary for farmers to fund the
added inputs from off-farm work in the tourist industry or by phasing changes suggested in the model
over several years; (iii) switching values (see Annex E and N) indicate that the models are robust,
requiring an increase of more than 100 percent in operating costs or a fall of more than 50 per cent in
incremental inflows to reduce NPV to zero at 10 percent discount rate; (iv) financial benefits may be
earned through changes in cropping pattern or livestock processing/marketing as well as increased
technical efficiency; (v) there is a substantial surplus of farm labor available on the modelled farms, and
labor returns per hour are maintained or increased under the with-project scenario for each model; (vi)
farmers have an ability to pay for useful services, especially where the scale of operation is large enough
to cover overheads and basic living costs or where high value vegetable, cheese or similar products are
involved.



- 29 -
Table 7: Summary of Indicative Financial Analysis
(US$)
Annual Net Cashflow
Model a/                                 Farn
Size            Without                      With                 Incremental
Project                   Project                                    l
1. Istria Mixed Farm  b/                 7.1 ha
US$ per Farm                                             1,460                     2,810                     1,350
US$ per Hour Family Labor                                  1                          2                         1
2. Dalmatia Vegetable c/                 1.2 ha
US$ per Farm                                            26,800                    28,900                     2,100
US$ per Hour Family Labor                                 13                         13                                      l
3. Lika Mixed Farm  d/                   5.8 ha
US$ per Farm                                            3,590                      6,650                     3,060
US$ per Hour Family Labor                                  2                         3.8                       1.8
4. Slavonija Crop Farmer e/              5.3 ha
US$ per Farm                                             5,680                     6,520                      840
US$ per Hour Family Labor                                 3.5                        4.3                      0.8
5. Dairy/Beef Farm  f/                   4.3 ha
US$ per Farm                                            4,990                      6,080                     1,090
US$ per Hour Family Labor                                  3                         3.5                      0.5
a/ These models attempt to quantify the possible impact of improved extensions services and access to quality research and other technical services
supported under the project. Farm size has been held constant between without and with project situations, although there are changes in cropping
pattems with project.
b/ The with project cropping pattem expands higher return potato and luceme production and deletes wheat and maize production so as to avoid large
increments in labor or land use. Improved technology is applied to barley, potato and luceme production in the with project situation. Istria
traditionally provides hay and forage seeds to adjacent mountain areas and has adequate markets for increased potato production. Although livestock
activities comprise almost half of the gross value of production no incremental livestock income is assumed, as it focuses on higher value crops.
Family labor requirements increase from 1220 hours per year to 1410 hours with project, an increment of 190 hours. This still leaves a large surplus
which can be used in part to gain employment in the tourist industry.
c/ Dalmatia has a successful and expanding vegetable industry in part due to a warmer climate which enables early harvest and access to high price,
out-of-season markets in other parts of Croatia and nearby countries. No irrigation investment is included in this model. This model has a small farm
area of 1.2 ha but has by far the highest net value of production of any model due to the focus on early tomato and potato crops and other vegetables.
There are no changes of cropping pattem assumed for the with project situation but crop yields are increased by 10 per cent mainly in response to
higher fertilizer and manure inputs. Livestock are produced for home consumption and there are no increments with project. Incremental family labor
with project (to handle larger harvests) is 191 hour per year. Although there is substantial unused family labor, hired labor is needed to meet seasonal
peaks of demand and this also increases with project, by 33 hours per year.
d/ Lika is a mountainous area with much pasture land and some emphasis on livestock production. This model looks at changes in a mixed farm with
crop, cattle and pig production. The model increases potato and reduces wheat production with project in response to crop budget financial
profitability; additionally dairy cow numbers are increased from 3 to 4 and cheese making (600 kg per year) is introduced with project. There is a
strong demand for local cheeses and the necessary skills and interest in increasing production are available. Potato and barley yields are increased
by about 15 per cent with project in response to use of better seed and more fertilizer. The cropped area is constant at 5.8 ha in both project situations
and is below total farm area of 7.9 ha to allow for rotation and non-arable land. With project labor is only about half estimated available labor and
most of the increment is in high value cheese production yielding incremental hourly retums nearly double average without project retums.
e/ Slavonija is the major crop production region in Croatia. This model is representative of private farms which are replacing the Agro-Kombinats as
major producers in the region. The cropping pattem changes with project to reduce sugar beet and maize area and to expand soybean, so as to
improve farm self-sufficiency in pig feed. Wheat, meadow and barley are constant, as is the total cropped area of 5.3 ha. Almost half of the crops
produced (by value) are used on-farm for livestock production. The model includes I cow, 6 sows and a small poultry activity (no increment with
project). Of these, the pig activity is the main commercial livestock activity; with project weaner pig production increases by about 13 per cent and
ration costs are reduced. Crop yield increases of just under 15 per cent are achieved with better fertilizer inputs and seeds. The yield increases do
not demand additional labor as harvest is mechanized and the changes in cropping pattem do not create new labor demands..
f/ This model has four Simnental cows in both project situations. Milk production increases from 2800 1 to 3360 1 per cow per year with project.
Improved animal health, changed rations and better genetic material are expected to be accessible through improved extension and veterinary services.
The cropped area remains constant at 4.3 ha but the pattem changes with project. Maize silage and mixed grass pasture are introduced to boost feed
supply with project and maize for grain and the less productive meadow are reduced slightly. Mixed grass and other improved pastures would be
stimulated by project activities and gradually displace meadow and other unimproved pastures. Further increases in technical and financial performance
are possible, e.g. use of milk replacer for calf rearing or breed changes, and practical but have not been considered as they are still uncommon in
Croatia. Family labor requirements are virtually the same with and without project and are around 40 per cent of estimated available labor. There
is scope to expand the size of farms of this type but this is not considered within this project.



- 30 -
6.8    Farm economic analysis indicate positive incremental returns earned in each model, given the
NPCs estimated in Annex N of the Supplemental Volume. Even in Slavonija where several common crops
have higher NPCs, the usual practice on private farms is to feed these crops to livestock with strong
positive economic and financial results (see Table 8).
Table 8: Summary of Indicative Economic Analysis
(US$ per Farm)
Net Value of Production (Annual)
Model
Without        With       Incremental
Project      Project        Value
1. Istria Mixed Farm        -190         1,100          1,290
2. Dalmatia Vegetable      24,420        26,350         1,930
3. Lika Mixed Farm          1510         3,870         2,360
4. Slavonija Crop Farm      2,100         3,390         1,290
5. Dairy/Beef Farm          1,990         2,960         970
Project Econonic Rate of Return
6.9    A conservative estimate of incremental net economic benefits yields an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 28 percent. Project incremental benefits are based only on the economic farm returns as
identified under the indicative models described above; other potential benefits (such as export losses
avoided through improved animal disease control or increased seed export revenues through an improved
seed regulatory framework) have not been quantified. It is assumed that incremental benefits would occur
with only 5 percent of the farming community (i.e., 25,000 out of 500,00 farmers) and that benefits
would set-in only in the sixth year of a ten year time horizon (albeit benefits are expected to accrue well
beyond the tenth year and a considerably larger share of the farming community can be expected to
benefit from the project). Incremental project investment (including replacement) as well as recurrent
costs have been included net of taxes and duties (i.e., net of transfer payments). A fuller discussion of
the analysis is presented in Annex E.
6.10   Sensitivity analysis carried out on the base case ERR indicates that returns on this project are
robust. For instance, a simultaneous increase of project costs and decrease of benefits by 20 percent,
respectively results in an ERR of 15 percent (22 percent and 20 percent if costs and benefits, respectively,
are varied in isolation).
B. RISKS
6.11   The potential resistance at the operational level by the various Government institutions and
services involved in the project to give up traditional influence and responsibilities following their
reorganization is a risk associated with the project. This would be addressed through a substantial training
program for the staff of these institutions with a focus on farm community participation and on the
rationale for the changes introduced under the project. Associated to this is the risk of a slow
establishment of an Agriculture Research Council and a National Seed Authority. This is being addressed
through considerable technical assistance provided both during pre-project start-up using Japanese grant



- 31 -
funds, and during early project implementation to work out procedures and to assist these nascent
institutions. A second risk lies in the number and size of procurement contracts to be implemented during
the first project years; to mitigate a procurement specialist has been hired prior to Loan Effectivness to
compile the major packages to be procured during the first project year. A third risk during
implementation stems from limited farmer capacity to form and support private associations, and the
potential limitations of extension and research staff to evolve with the market economy. This risk will be
counteracted by project activities which will focus technology development on efficiency increases,
improved farm management practices and product diversification; the assurance of unequivocal
Government support to farmer associations and farmer guided extension and research services; and a
focus of project design on farm community participation.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.12   The project has been placed in the environmental Category B. An Environmental Analysis (EA)
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank has been carried out by an independent commission
appointed by MAF. The EA (Annex F) concludes: (i) no significant negative environmental impacts
associated with project implementation are to be expected; (ii) while private agriculture production is
likely to intensify, albeit from a low base, the intensity of the social sector production is likely to
decrease; and (iii) by the nature of the various project activities, in particular, extension and applied
research, agricultural practices would become environmentally safer. The EA also presents an inventory
of major environmental legislation relevant for the agriculture sector and concludes that while a whole
body of relevant environmental legislation has developed, enforcement has scope for improvement. The
EA underlines that project implementation would act as a catalyst to the further development of
environmental legislation and improved enforcement. Registration of agrochemicals and development of
Integrated Pest Management would be strengthened under the NSA (see para. 4.25).
6.13   No special mitigation plan has been required by the EA as no negative environmental impact is
directly caused by the project.; emphasis has been put on the extension services to provide guidance to
private farmers on the appropriate use of agro-chemicals. To support the concept of sustainable
agriculture and appropriate handling of agrochemicals, agreement will be sought during negotiations with
the Borrower, that MAF would develop environmental ('best practice') guidelines for its extension
service. These guidelines would give orientation to farmers on the safe and proper use of agro-chemicals
at the latest by April 30, 1997 as a dated covenant to the Loan agreement (see para. 7.1).



- 32 -
CHAPTER VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following agreements have been reached during negotiations:
(a)    Recruitment of key consultants (i.e., the extension specialists, the research management
specialist, the veterinary epidemiologist, the pasture/livestock economist, the seed
certification specialist, and the long term policy specialist) would have taken place at the
latest by October 31, 1996 (see para. 5.9);
(b)    Review of financial arrangements of the Agriculture Research Fund (including the
possibility to introduce modest commodity-based levies) would be carried not later then
April 30, 1999 (see para 4.21);
(c)    The first of the four ZRECU would be established by MAF not later then October 31,
1997, and the three remaining ZRECUs would be established at the latest by October 31,
1998 (see para. 4.21);
(d)    Monitoring of project impact would be carried out on the basis of Project Performance
Indicators outlined in Annex D of the PIP (see para. 5.14);
(e)    Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit: MAF would staff the APAU with four additional policy
analysts at the latest by October 31, 1996; and the Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit
would exchange views with the Bank annually on its work program (see para. 4.30);
(f)    Conversion of all remaining import quotas to tariffs for seed trade would take place at
the latest by October 31, 1997 (see para. 4.27);
(g)    Preparation of a schedule on cost recovery for the NSA would take place at the latest six
months after establishment of the NSA (see para. 4.27);
(h)    MAF would develop environmental guidelines for its extension service on the use of
agro-chemicals in order to orient private farmers on the safe and sustainable use of such
agents, at the latest by April 30, 1997 (see paras. 4.14 and 6.13);
(i)    Project Mid-term Review: a project mid-term review would be carried out jointly by
MAF and the Bank at the by April 30, 1998 (see para. 5.15)
(j)    Authorized allocations under the Special Account (see para. 4.44); project accounts (see
paras. 4.45 and 5.10); and reporting requirements (see paras. 5.12) have been agreed.
7.2    Government has carried out the following activities in fulfillment of agreed Conditions of Board
Presentation:
(a)    Agriculture Research Component: MAF has established the ARC, including the
nomination of the chairperson and a core council (consisting of at least three farmer
representative; a representative of MAF and MOST, respectively; and one representative
from the research community); in addition, MAF has identified the secretary of the ARC
who will be appointed upon Loan effectiveness (see para. 4.21);



- 33 -
(b)    Animal Health Legislation: MAF has carried out a review of draft veterinary legislation
through an international institution acceptable to the Bank and has presented the draft law
to Parliament (see para. 4.23);
(c)   Implementation Preparation: MAF has appointed a procurement staff to the PIU, and has
identified a suitable financial officer, and an administrative assistant which will be
appointed to the PIU on a full time basis upon Loan effectiveness (see para. 4.32).
7.3   The following Conditions of Disbursement for two specific subcomponents have been agreed
upon:
(a)    Agriculture Research: (i) MAF would have worked-out jointly with MOST and ARC
operational guidelines (including a funding formula) satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
MAF would have established the full ARC Council (see para. 4.21 and 4.46);
(b)    Seed Industry Development: Government would have enacted the new seed legislation
and MAF would have (i) established the National Seed Authority (NSA), (ii) appointed
a director satisfactory to the Bank and (iii) obtained suitable locations for setting-up core
NSA infrastructure (see para 4.27 and 4.46).
7.4    No Conditions of Effectiveness other than the standard ones apply.
7.5    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a Loan of
US$17.0 million at standard IBRD interest rate.






- 35 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
(ANNEXES A - F)



-36 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
CONTENTS
ANNEX A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
I.  Implementation Summary ....................................   37
II.  Implementation Arrangements by Component (Tables} .................   40
III.  Component Description for Agriculture Extension   .................... 46
IV.  Component Description for Agriculture Research  ..................... 59
V.  Component Description for Animal Health Support Services    ............. 70
VI.  Component Description for Pasture and Fodder Development  ............. 83
VII.  Component Description for Seed Industry Development   ................ 89
VIII.  Component Description for Policy Analysis Unit  ....................  103
ANNEX  B. PROJECT COST TABLES   ...................................  115
I.  Summary Tables .........................................  116
II.  Detailed Cost Tables .......................................  119
ANNEX  C. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS  ....................    127
ANNEX  D. PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS   ........                                 ..         ..............  133
I.  Agriculture Extension  .....................................  134
II.  Agriculture Research   .....................................  135
III.  Animal Health Support Services   ..............................  136
IV.  Pasture and Fodder Development  ..............................  137
V.  Seed Industry Development   .................................  138
VI.  Policy Analysis Unit ......................................  139
ANNEX E. SUMMARY FARM MODEL ANALYSIS AND PROJECT ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS              ......................                   ..........................  141
I.  Introduction   ...........................................   141
II.  Model Descriptions   ......................................  141
III.  Farm  Model Financial Analysis  ...............................  144
IV.  Farm  Model Economic Analysis   ..............................  148
V.  Farn  Analysis: Conclusion  .................................  150
VI.  Project Economic Analysis  ..................................  151
ANNEX F. PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS ........................ 155
I.  Introduction and Summary  ..................................  155
II.  Existing State of Environment, Regional Structure and Ownership  ...                   ......  156
IH.  Potential Impact of the Project on Environment  .....................  162
IV.  Summary of Status of Envirornental Legislation  ....................  164
V.  Relevant Legislation for FSSP Implementation   .....................  165



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX A
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
I. IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
1.    The project would be implemented over a period of four years (CY96-99) after a period of
intensive pre-project activities in CY95 financed under a Japanese Grant. Prior to project effectiveness
major packages for procurement during the first year of implementation would be compiled.
2.    Overall Project Implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry MAF would take
overall responsibility for project implementation, and direct responsibility for the implementation of the
agricultural extension and applied research components, for the policy analysis support component, and
for the veterinary epidemiological activities.
3.    Extension. The Deputy Minister Extension would take responsibility for implementing the
agriculture extension program. The extension service, which has its own budget and permanent staff,
would operate 21 Zupanija Extension Service Centers under the supervision of MAF. The broad functions
of the extension staff at headquarters would consist of: developing the diagnostic survey methodology;
supporting the national research prioritization process; facilitating research extension linkages; organizing
skill-gap based extension staff training; ensuring technical and market information flows; and developing
the mass media communication programs.
4.    The ZESCs would be staffed with 4 to 5 extension specialists in each of the 21 Zupanijas (no
incremental staff required). They would work through and support the creation of farmer groups, private
consultants and agro-industry and conduct on-farm demonstrations and mass media communications. The
ZESCs would be guided by local Advisory Committees with a broad representation of private farmers
in the Zupanija. Initially such farmer advisory committees would be formed with the assistance of the
ZESCs on an ad-hoc basis (in cooperation with the local chapters of the Croatian Farmers Association).
More formal procedures would be developed through the Advisory Committees once established.
5.    Some 45 local farmers associations would be supported through the project. Local farmers
associations interested in employing private advisors would be eligible for project grant funds through
MAF on a matching basis to pay for the salary of the advisor. Public support to fund a private farm
advisor salary would be based on the following formula: 80 percent of gross salary in year 1, 50 percent in year 2,
35 percent in year 3, and 25 percent in year 4. No support would be provided thereafter. The balance would be provided by the
farmer group. Associations would recruit suitably qualified advisors under a standard 4 year contract with
a 6 month probation period. Association and consultant compliance with the contract conditions would
be closely monitored by the ZESCs. Individual private consultants would be eligible to only one support
package over the project life. The roughly 45 groups under the farmer-based milk recording scheme
would be established in three selected Zupanija by the herd recording staff of the Croatian Livestock
Selection Center (CLSC).



ANNEX A                                         - 38 -                       Project Implementation Plan
6.    Training for extension staff would commence with a trainers program for staff selected from
within the Zupanija extension service. The trainers would subsequently implement a retraining program
for extension staff at all levels including both headquarters and Zupanija, organized by the training
coordinator appointed to the headquarters of the Extension Department. Each three-four week training
program would be for about ten staff. This training would include practical field exercise. About 110 staff
would be trained in this manner during the first two years of project implementation. Additional courses
would be provided for scientific staff involved in adaptive research and for private extension advisors
hired under the farmer group scheme. Regular and special in-service training programs for extension staff
at all levels would also be introduced, organized by MAF's training coordinator. Overseas training would
be provided for four extension managers. They would participate in short-term training programs in
extension methodology with practical exposure to field operations in selected European countries. On
return, the trainees would be required to hold a series of seminars for extension staff and be required to
contribute to in-service staff training courses.
7.    Research. The Deputy Minister Agriculture together with the project manager would coordinate
the establishment of the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) and provide guidance to the ARC during
project implementation. The ARC, responsible for the allocation of the national applied agriculture
research budget, would be independent of MAF but answerable to the Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry. MOST would be responsible for the general administration of applied research contracts; this
would include screening research proposals, procurement of research equipment associated with the
research contracts, and off-site and on-site supervision of research work. The establishment of the ARC
as well as the formulation of the operating procedures would take place prior to project effectiveness with
technical assistance funded under the Japanese Grant.
8.    The project would support an applied agriculture research management system to produce relevant
and timely information for the private family farmers. The establishment of an independent Agriculture
Research Council (ARC) which would establish research policy and priorities for funding applied
agriculture research would be key to ensuring relevance and timeliness of research to farmers. The ARC
would consist of a majority of farmer representatives (9 members nominated from each of the nine
agriculture regions); in addition, ARC would consist of one representative from MAF and MOST,
respectively, three representatives from the research community, and one from agrobusiness. The
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry would nominate the chairperson of the ARC.
9.    Demand-driven research. The ARC would invite the scientific community (both public and private
sector) on the basis of publicly announced Terms of Reference, to submit research proposals to the
council, i.e. contracts for applied research would be demand driven. The research agenda would be (i)
open-ended and determined by the ARC, and (ii) would allow for a broad scope of topics to be researched
ranging from production technology to market research and development. Any bona fide Croatian
research institution, public or private, would be eligible to participate under the competitive research
grant system. The ARC shall make such rules and establish procedures as required openly to carry out
its responsibility. The Council shall also promulgate procedures and select participants for external and
internal training of scientific and faculty personnel supported under the project.. The Ministry of Science
and Technology (MOST) would carry out the technical and scientific review (involving national and
foreign reviewers) of the submitted proposals and would submit to the ARC short lists of proposals in
the respective areas of applied research for decision making. MOST would administer, supervise
(including on-site supervision) and audit the research contracts. The ARC would be assisted by a small
(one or two) person secretariat which would call the ARC meetings on the initiative of the Chairperson.
It would also be responsible to liaise with MOST and to also carry-out on-site supervision of applied
research contracts.



Project Implementation Plan                    - 39 -                                       ANNEX A
10.   Agriculture Research Fund. Applied agriculture research would be funded on a competitive grant
basis through an Agriculture Research Fund which would finance incremental equipment and research
costs. In order to ensure that both regional and national research priorities are being addressed, a funding
formula would be agreed upon by the ARC, for a period not shorter than three years, which would
allocated funds to the main agriculture regions (based on the relative contribution to agriculture GDP)
and to overall national research. In the context of applied research, MOST would continue, as in the past,
to finance the salaries and basic operating costs of the public research institutions; MOST would also
continue to support basic agriculture research (including salaries, buildings, utilities and equipment) and
continue to support and pay for post graduate students.
11.   Research - Extension - Farmer linkages would be strengthened through the following steps:
(i) relevance of future applied research would be improved by the above approach, which focuses
on farmer representation both at the district and the national level.
(ii) invitations for applied research proposals would request a concept by the bidder on how the
research results would reach the extension services and farmers; this concept would be part of
the overall proposal evaluation;
(iii) field trials and demonstrations to be carried out by the extension services and by contracted
researchers under the competitive grant system would be linked to the research proposals in
order to ensure on-farm experimentation. The successful research bidder would engage in
contracts with individual farmers to carry out on-farm trials under the supervision of the
researcher.
12.   Animal Heath. The animal health program would be managed by MAF's Veterinary Department
while diagnostic work would be under the responsibility of the NVI.
13.   Pasture and Fodder Development. The grassland program would be managed and implemented
by the Department of Grassland and Fodder Development, Agricultural Faculty, Zagreb University.
14.   Seed Industry Development. MAF's Agriculture Department would establish the National Seed
Authority (NSA) which would subsequently administer the national seed industry quality control and
regulatory policy, as well as agro-chemical registration.
15.   Policy Analysis Support. MAF's Policy Department would be responsible for restructuring its
Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit, hiring the required additional staff, contracting selected policy studies,
and for establishing the market information system. The one-time farm baseline survey and the annual
farm monitoring exercises would be carried out by the Institute of Agriculture Economics, University of
Zagreb.
16.   Technical Assistance. The TA program envisaged for the project (some 75 months amounting to
some US$1.8 million) is essential for project success. In order to ensure timely recruitment of key TA,
hiring the extension specialists, the research management specialist, and the long term policy specialist
would take place at the latest by June 30, 1996 (i.e. six months after effectiveness).
17.   The following Implementation Arrangement by Components gives a breakdown of major
activities, responsibilities and summary description of tasks on a component basis.



ANNEX A                                              -40 -                             Project Implementation Plan
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS BY COMPONENT (TABLES)
A. EXTENSION COMPONENT
Activity             Res~~~Ponsbilitym.Swum axDsrito
Overall Extension Component     MAF's Extension Department        See Annex A(III) and B.
Procurement                     PIU jointly with MAF's            See Annex D.
Extension Department
Strengthening of ZESCs          MAF's Extension Department and   Establishment of full ZESC
ZESCs                            offices
Establishment of ZESCs Advisory   MAF's Extension Department     Initial arrangements on an ad-hoc
Committees                      jointly with ZESC in collaboration  basis; development of formal
with local representatives of the  procedures during project
Croatian Farmers Association    implementation
Extension Training Program      MAF's Extension Department       (i) Trainers program, general
orientation course, regular, and
specialized in-service training; (ii)
study tour; (iii) overseas training.
Curricula development
Extension Technical Assistance   MAF's Extension Department       Extension specialists, training
with PIU                         advisors, herd recording
specialist. MAF's Extension
Department drafts TOR, PIU
issues LOI
Diagnostic Survey                MAF's Extension Department       (i) Development of methodology;
jointly with ZESC                (ii) survey implementation; (iii)
ZESC annual work program.
Training Packages/Mass Media     MAF's Extension Department's     Development of 25 thematic
Program                         training coordinator, with       training and multimedia packages.
assistance for research community
Private Farmer Association       MAF's Extension Department       Establishment of 45 Farmer
Extension                       jointly with ZESC in collaboration  Associations (on average 2 per
with Farmer Association          Zupanija), recruitment of private
advisors through Associations.
Farmer-based Milk Recording      Croatian Livestock Selection    Establishment of 45 herd
Center (CLSC) with support from   recording groups in 3 Zupanijas
MAF's Extension Department and
selected ZESCs
On-farm Trials and               ZESC in collaboration with       2,200 field trials and
Demonstrations                  researchers carrying out applied  demonstrations during project
research contracts              life.
Component Monitoring            MAF's Extension Department       Based on Performance Indicators
in Annex D.
CLSC - Croatian Livestock Selection Center
LOI - Letters of Invitation
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
ZESC - Zupanija Extension Service Centers



Project Implementation Plan                             - 41 -                                             ANNEX A
B. RESEARCH COMPONENT
A-tvity                    Reonsbility                      Sunmary Description
Overall Research Component    MAF's Extension and           See Annex A(IV) and B.
Agriculture Department
- supported by PIU for
recruitment of TA
- in collaboration with MOST
- later: ARC and Secretariat
Establish ARC                 MAF in collaboration with     Legal Establishment; development of
MOST                         operating procedures; establishment of
Secretariat
Allocation of Nat'l Applied   ARC                           - Establish research policy and priorities
Research Budget (Agr.                                       - Issue Invitation for Competitive Research
Research Fund)                                              Proposals
- Take Funding Decisions
Applied Research              MOST                          - screening and peer review process of
Administration                                              research proposals resulting in shortlist for
ARC decision
- administration of research contracts incl. off-
and on-site supervision (with support from
ARC Secretariat)
- research audits
Drafting of Invitation for    ARC Secretariat with support
Research Proposals            from MOST
Procurement of Research       ARC                           - ARC issues invitation for competitive
Contracts                                                   research grant proposals; research equipment
part of proposals procured according to
Croatian public guidelines
- PIU for ARC office, computer, vehicles
-procurement of equipment according to
Annex C
Procurement of goods          MAF's Extension Service       Procurement of Computer Network, and
jointly with PIU             international data base, journals and books
Research Management Training   ARC Secretariat jointly with  - visiting scientist program, research staff
Program                       MAF's Extension Department   orientation courses, research management
and PIU and research         training and study tours, research reporting
community                    seminars
- curriculum development, study tour
organization, holding of reporting seminars
Research Technical Assistance    Secretariat with MAF's     - drafting of TORs (Secretariat and Extension
Extension Department and     Department)
PIU                          - issuing of LOI (by PIU)
Funding review of ARF         ARC                           Secretariat to draft TORs
Component Monitoring          MAF's Agriculture             Based on Performance Indicators in Annex D.
Department
ARC - Agriculture Research Council
ARF - Agriculture Research Fund
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOST - Ministry of Science & Technology



ANNEX A                                             -42 -                          Project Implementation Plan
C. ANIMAL HEALTH COMPONENT
.... ~ ~ ~ .    .........I... : .   ...     .. .. .; E  .  ; .;- .-E -    .j......   -     f:fW:E:.  .. : .   .    .    .   .. .... . ..... f- ..    . :  :- -    
Overall Animal Health          MAF's Veterinary Department     See Annex A(V) and B.*
Component                      with diagnostic work under NVI
Veterinary Legislation         MAF's Veterinary Department     Review of draft Veterinary
Legislation and presentation to
Parliament
Procurement                    MAF's Veterinary Department,    See Annex C.*
and with NVI, respectively jointly
with PIU
Epidemiology Technical         MAF's Veterinary Department,    - Drafting of TORs by Veterinary
Assistance and Training        and with NVI, respectively jointly   Dept.vis. NVI
with PIU                       - Issuing LOI by PIU
Support to National Veterinary  PIU                            Procurement of simple office
Chamber                                                        equipment
Veterinary Skills Training     National Veterinary Chamber     - Curriculum development
Component Monitoring           MAF's Veterinary Department     Based on Performance Indicators
in Annex D.
- - Technical specifications of laboratory equipment provided by NVI , and Veterinary Department,
respectively.
LOI - Letters of Invitation
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
NVI - National Veterinary Institute
PIU - Project Implementation Unit



Project Implementation Plan                          - 43 -                                            ANNEX A
D. PASrURE AND FODDER DEVELOPMENT COmpONENT
Aivity      -                 Responibil--   Summa   Dlescription
Overall Pasture and Fodder       Department of Grassland and      See Annex A(VI) and B.
Development Component            Fodder Development, University
of Zagreb
Construction & Rehabilitation of    Department of Grassland and  Civil Works to be contracted
Sljeme Pasture Research Station  Fodder Development              through PIU
Procurement                      PIU jointly with the Department   See Annex C.
of Grassland and Fodder          - technical specifications provided
Development, University of      by Department of Grassland and
Zagreb                          Fodder Development for
laboratory and field experimental
equipment
Grassland Inventory              Department of Grassland and
Fodder Development
Technical Assistance             Department of Grassland and      Pasture Economist, Pasture
Fodder Development with PIU     Resource Inventory Specialist,
Grassland Management Specialist,
Animal Nutrition Specialist
- Draft TORs by Department of
Grassland Development
- LOI by PIU
Grassland Training               Department of Grassland and      Extension staff & farmer training,
Fodder Development jointly with   study tour, postgraduate course
MAF's Extension Department      - curriculum development
- course implementation
Pasture Trials and Demonstrations   Department of Grassland and   See Annex A(VI).
Fodder Development in
collaboration with (i)MAF's
Extension Department, and (ii)
selected regional research
institutions
Linkages with European pasture   Department of Grassland and      See Annex A(VI).
research networks                Fodder Development              _
Pasture Breeding Program        Department of Grassland and      See Annex A(VI).
Fodder Development
Seed Bank                       Department of Grassland and      See Annex A(VI).
Fodder Development
Component Monitoring             MAF's Agriculture Department    Based on Performance Indicators
in Annex D.
LOI - Letters of Invitation
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
PIU - Project Implementation Unit



ANNEX A                                             - 44 -                          Project Implementation Plan
E. SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Overall Seed Component          National Seed Authority (NSA)   See Annex A(VII) and B.
Implementation____________                          ______
Establishment of NSA            MAF's Agriculture Department    - review of draft plant variety
rights and legislation; passage of
law by Parliament
- appointment of director and
incremental staff
- suitable locations identified
- tariffication of seed quotas
Procurement                     NSA jointly with PIU            See Annex C.
- technical specification of
laboratory and field testing
equipment provided by NSA
- procurement process by PIU
Training                        NSA                             - training of private seed
certification inspectors:
curriculum development and
holding of courses by NSA
overseas training in seed testing
and variety trials
Technical Assistance            NSA                             Seed certification, seed industry
regulations, DUS trials, VCU
trials
- draft TORs by NSA
- LOI by PIU
Component Monitoring            MAF's Agriculture Department    Based on Performance Indicators
in Annex D.
DUS - Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability
LOI - Letters of Invitation
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
NSA - National Seed Authority
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
VCU - Value for Cultivation and Use



Project Implementation Plan                          - 45 -                                            ANNEX A
F. POLICY ANALYSIS SUPPORT COMPONENT
alI Pol  Anal *     M;AF, ARftspoiisibility               Summary adcB
Overall Policy Analysis       MAF's Agrnculture rolicy      See Annex A(VIII) and B.
Support Component             Analysis Unit
Strengthening of APAU         MAF                            recruitment of incremental staff
Procurement                   APAU jointly with PIU          office and computer equipment, vehicle
see Annex D.
Overseas Trammg               APAU jointly with PIU          See Annex A(VIII).
Policy Studies                APAU jointly with PIU         land markets, marketing development,
sugar, oilseeds, dairy subsector,
fertilizer subsidies: - APAU drafts
TORs, - PIU issues LOI
Technical Assistance          APAU jointly with PIU          Long-term policy specialist, trade
analyst, market information specialist, -
APAU drafts TORs, - PIU issues LOI
Market Information System     APAU                           See Annex A(VIII).
Baseline Survey               Institute of Agriculture       See Annex A(VIII).
Economics, University of
Zagreb under contract from
MAF
On-farm Monitoring Surveys    Institute of Agriculture       See Annex A(VIII).
Economics, University of
Zagreb under contract from
MAF
Component Monitoring          MAF's Policy Department        Based on Performance Indicators in
I Annex D.
APAU - Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit
LOI - Letters of Invitation
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
G. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Activity                   Responsibilityz                         Descrion
Overall PIU                   MAF                            See SAR, in particular hiring of full
time staff
Project Procurement           PIU                           Overall Procurement Responsibilities
under the Project; see Annex D.
Project Accounts              PIU                           See SAR.
Project Auditing              PIU                            See SAR.
Monitoring of Project         PIU supported by               See Annex D.
Performance Indicators        implementing institutions
Mid-term Review               PIU                           See SAR
MAF - Ministry of Finance
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report



ANNEX A                                        - 46 -                        Project Implementation Plan
m. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION FOR AGRICULTURE EXTENSION
A. Rationale and Design of the Project
18.   The four-year project must lay the foundation for the effective delivery of farner services and
develop a momentum for the continuing development of new technology and farm management practices
responsive to the needs of the private farmer.
19.   With the development of land holding legislation and economic liberalization in general, farming
in Croatia will rapidly change. These developments will press farmers to increase farm size, through
acquisition or lease, and to change their production mix, as well as their production systems in response
to price changes and new market opportunities. Among the factors that will stimulate change are:
(i) the return of tourism to the Adriatic coast, which will expand the market for high quality,
ecologically clean products;
(ii) the growing awareness to environmental issues and to healthy food, and the realization
that Croatia may have a comparative advantage in producing healthy food for the
European market; and
(iii) the low labor costs offers prospects for the development of labor-intensive production.
20.   Low input techniques are more knowledge intensive, if they are to be reliable and profitable.
Practicing a more rational use of inputs to maximize income, rather than yields, also requires fine tuning
at farm level. The adaptation of Croatia's farmers to the new circumstances requires new skills, as well
as closer links with scientists and technicians to develop these techniques. This link is provided through
the extension services.
21.   Given the uncertainties regarding the future of the social farms and cooperatives, and the
continuing processes of economic restructuring, the short-term option is to improve the operational
efficiency and effectiveness of the small state-financed extension service. However, a progression to a
semi-privatized advisory service must be an objective and parallel development of private consultants
would be supported through the project. Future private sector advisory services could emerge through
farmer-owned cooperatives, commodity associations and agribusiness. Such initiatives would also be
encouraged during project implementation. Progressively, farmers are expected to absorb an increasing
share of the costs of their advisory services.
22.   The current structure is being reorganized at all levels. At the Ministry level, a clear definition
of responsibilities has been agreed, providing a direct line of communication between the extension
service and the Ministry and the new Agriculture Research Council. The nucleus Zupanija Extension
Support Centers (ZESCs) is being established and officers will have a career structure and salary scales,
awarding for performance.
23.   The farmers of Croatia are a heterogeneous group, and so are their advisory requirements.
However, with the limited staffing resources available, it will not be possible to give cover to all farmers
on a one-to-one basis. Knowledge on the present situation and performance of these farmers will be
crucial to the design and extension strategies and activities. The current constraints on transport,
equipment and extension aids will have to be addressed and the knowledge and skills mix of the extension
service developed through a broad training program.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 47 -                                        ANNEX A
24.   The future public extension service will have to operate within the limits of a severe budget
constraint and care must be taken to control recurrent costs. These cost constraints will prevent any major
increases in staff numbers, yet farmer contact must be increased, the operational efficiency must also be
improved and the effective delivery of relevant packages given priority. The Zupanija Extension Support
Center (ZESC) will therefore operate as the core resource center for the rural community. It should be
guided by a Zupanija extension advisory committee with strong representation from the local farmer
community, and operate on the basis of "client ownership". With limited staff resources, the ZESCs
would have to operate through farmer groups and use production/ marketing/management associations
as their primary contacts to the extent possible.
25.   Extension support services to individual farmers would have to be built through the private sector,
working in co-operation with the ZESCs and utilizing their technical resources.
26.   The focus of the future program would be on increasing farmer incomes. In the short term this
requires a thorough, critical review of past relevant research and where it can be applied, and also the
identification of the improved practices of progressive farmers through farming systems analysis. The
research program, conversely, would need to be devised jointly between scientists and producers to
develop short-term action programs to develop appropriate technologies. The effective establishment of
this linkage through a farmer guided extension service forms the main rationale of this component.
B. Objectives and Strategies
27.   The objective is to provide an extension system, within the existing fiscal, economic and social
constraints, that helps the development of sustainable increases in private farm family income and well
being. The extension service would aim do this by the provision of sound business management,
marketing and technical advice and information to farmers and their families using the most effective and
efficient communication procedures.
28.   The component, as proposed, would link agricultural extension and research workers with farmers
in the identification of production constraints and opportunities, and the development of appropriate
strategies for their solution or exploitation.
29.    More specifically, the objectives would be:
(i) to generate information on the current systems used by farmers and to identify areas
where improvements can be made;
(ii) to improve the efficiency of technology transfer and improve the relevance of information
to farmers' specific problems;
(iii)  to train and equip the extension service to adjust to the new economic environment; and
(iv) to develop an operating mode conducive to building increased co-operation and
participation between both public and private extension and research, and the farming
community.



ANNEX A                                        - 48 -                       Project Implementation Plan
C. Project Components
30.   Support to Public Extension Services. Under the project the existing public Zupanija (district)
extension offices (21 with a total staff of some 110) would develop into community supervised Zupanija
Extension Service Centers (ZESC). These would provide the impetus to farmer group formation (see
below) and act as a source of infonnation and specialized guidance to private advisers directly serving
the farmers. The ZESC would be assisted through voluntary local Advisory Committees representing the
local farming community and agro-business. Office, computer and teaching equipment, and vehicles
would be made available to the ZESCs.
31.   Detailed Features:
Zupanija Extension Service Centers (ZESCs). The existing county extension centers (one in each
of the 21 Zupanija) would be developed in to Zupanija Extension Service Centers (ZESCs) and
consist of a professional team of 4-5 extension officers and one support staff, led by an extension
coordinator.
Each ZESC would be provided with two cars and mileage allowance for staff-owned cars.
Provision is also made for office accommodation at the Zupanija headquarters including rentals,
communication and office equipment supplies. Each would be provided with a set of office
furniture,  three  personal  computers,  appropriate  software,  and  a  photocopier.
Extension/communication equipment, including slide and overhead projectors, VDO and camera
would be included. To support the development of ZESC activities, the project would provide
funds for on-farm technology testing, publication of extension material, the production of a farm
management handbook, and for subscriptions to magazines.
32.   Diagnostic Survey. During early project implementation, each ZESC would carry out a one-time,
farm community based diagnostic survey in order to develop a thorough understanding of the constraints
and potential of the areas they are servicing, and to give the extension services the opportunity to inform
farmers in their area of the new extension approach. The diagnostic survey exercise would help define
the annual working program of the Zupanija extension service (a systematic working program, including
monitorable performance indicators for the public extension services was developed in 1995 for the first
time) MAF's extension department with TA provided under a Japanese Grant funding would develop a
simple methodology to carry out these diagnostic surveys.
33.   Private Extension Support. The formation of a limited number of farmer groups (some 45
groups, roughly 2 groups in each Zupanija) on a pilot basis would be supported in view of farmer groups
employing private advisors in agricultural production, farm business management, and marketing
associations management on a matching grant basis. Each group would directly employ its own adviser
who would be funded by MAF during the first four years on a matching grant basis and receive some
basic training equipment on a grant basis. The public extension service would develop standard contracts
and provide the newly established farmer groups with legal advice during the process of hiring private
advisors.
34.   Detailed Features:
Support to Farmers Associations. The project would encourage farmers to form self-help groups
with a common interest in technology development, bulk supply of inputs, product marketing,
or in sharing equipment, essentially by: (i) limiting time spent by the public extension officers



Project Implementation Plan                      - 49 -                                        ANNEX A
with individual farmers and extending public extension efforts with farmer groups; (ii) offering
legal and administrative information/advice on formal group formation; and (iii) providing
technical and managerial training to group leaders. Such training would include both informal
training, extended during visits or short seminars by zupanija staff, and formal training, which
would be organized at national level and involve guest speakers from agribusiness.
Private Sector Extension Services.  The provision of private advisory services would be
developed in conjunction with the establishment of farmer associations. Such associations would
be eligible under the project to receive grants to directly hire on a full time basis qualified
professional agricultural staff (many of which are presently with the public sector). It is
anticipated that some 45 groups employing advisers be forned within the duration of the project.
Grants would cover: (1) training in business, marketing and extension management.; (2) partial
salary support for farmer association employing a private consultants over a four year period on
a matching grant basis (based on the following matching grant formula: 80% in year 1, 50% in
year 2, 35% in year 3, and 25 in year 4; no support would be provided thereafter; the balance
would be provided by the farmer group) ; (3) provision of basic equipment (computer & printer
etc.) to the farmer group.
35.   Farmer-based Milk Recording Pilot Scheme. Also on a pilot basis, farmer herd recording
groups (some 45 in three Zupanijas) would be supported through the Croatian Livestock Selection Center
(CLSC) in close collaboration with the ZESC to promote farmer based milk recording. Milk recording
data, an important management tool in milk and animal production would be used by the extension
service and the farmer herd recording group. Farmer-based milk recording would also be a first step in
supporting private animal breeding efforts and in reducing the high costs of animal performance recording
presently carried out by the public sector. Project support would include milk production recording
equipment, limited computer equipment, and industry staff training including a study tour to selected
European animal breeding programs.
36.   Training Program. A substantial training program, including: a trainers of trainer program; a
one-time general staff orientation course; and regular and specialized in-service training, would be carried
out to enable the staff of the extension service to acquire the skills necessary to operate under a changed
mandate. Subjects would include farm business management, financial and marketing skills, group
formation skills, preparation of mass media and training packages, and information management. The
training of trainer program would be carried out prior to project start-up financed through a Japanese
Grant. Limited study tours would also be carried out by selected extension experts to get a better
understanding of extension issues and operations in other countries. Private advisors working under the
farmer group pilot scheme would also participate in this training program.
37.   Detailed Features:
A Reorientation Training program would be supported by the project for all extension officers.
The staff would undertake a short course designed to familiarize them with the role and activities
of the extension service. The course would be conducted by senior extension staff who would
themselves be trained through a eight week training course, designed and conducted by an
internationally recruited consultant. This training of trainers would take place prior to project
start-up. All other extension staff would receive their training within two years of the trainers
being trained.



ANNEX A                                        - 50 -                        Project Implementation Plan
The project would also support a Regular annual In-service Training program for extension
service staff. Extension staff would participate in a one-week training course at the zonal level,
designed to update their knowledge and skills, based on the extension themes for that particular
year. A full-time training and staff development coordinator would be appointed at headquarters
with the task of organizing these annual training programs and conducting skill-gap analysis for
all staff.
Additional Specialized Technical Training would be provided to extension staff in making the
best use of mass media including radio, the press and TV and in technologies of production
where skill gaps are identified. Training would be provided by specialists from Croatia and by
internationally recruited consultants.
Short-term Overseas Training would be supported for eight staff (4 agro-economists and
4 extension officers) for three months each at appropriate training institutions to gain experience
in training organization, skill job analysis and extension methods and administration.
38.   Mass Media Programs. Approximately 25 thematic training packages would be developed for
use by Zupanija extension service staff and other advisers for incorporation within an extension program
for farmers. The training packages would also form the basis of mass media activities which would be
developed on a contractual basis involving the extension and research services. Topics would include farm
business management, improving marketing arrangements of primary producers, and technical items such
as integrated crop production and pest management.
39.   Detailed Features:
The extension service would introduce the use of mass media techniques in widening its farmer
contact capacity. Professional producers (TV and radio) would be commissioned to prepare
programs on specific themes being extended in collaboration with the extension and research
services.. Content would be both technical or of general interest to the rural communities. An
allowance of roughly US$430,000 has been included to cover the costs of production of about
25 programs over four years.
40.   On-farm Trials and Demonstration: Farmer - Extension Research Link. A on-farm trial and
demonstration program would be carried out through the ZESC in coordination with agriculture
researchers perusing competitive grant-based applied research supported through the project (see para
below).
41.   Technical Assistance. Four areas of TA would be required during the life of the project:
*  three months consultancy for the training of trainers (which would be financed under the
Japanese Grant Facility);
*  eleven months consultancy on extension methodology, adaptive research priorities, design and
evaluation of trials; management and organization of an extension program, program
monitoring and evaluation;
*  three months consultancy for special skills training amongst extension staff: audio-visual
communication, farmer association organization, farm business management, financial and
marketing skills, information management, trials and demonstration management.



Project Implementation Plan                    - 51 -                                      ANNEX A
* nine months of local consultant time in media production, support to farmers marketing
associations, guest speakers at local training sessions, and computing skills.
D. Environmental Guidelines
42.   In order to ensure sustainability of agriculture production and the safe use and handling of
agrochemicals, MAF would develop environmental ("best practice") guidelines for the extension services
in line with applicable environmental legislation no later than 12 months after effectiveness (see para. 7.2
in the SAR).
E. Organization, Management and Implementation
43.   The extension program would be managed and implemented through the Extension Division of
the MAF headed by the Deputy Minister (Extension). There will be three tiers of management
(i) MAF Headquarters
(ii) Zupanija Extension Service Centers
(iii) Farmer advisers
44.   The extension program would be managed and implemented through the Extension Division
established within MAF under the Deputy Minister (Extension). The extension service is a separate
operations service, has its own budget and permanent staff. The extension division would be responsible
for its own staff recruitment. A recent staff ranking system has been established which provides for all
professional staff to improve their position based on merit.
45.   The HQ staff comprise an operations manager, information/media officer, a general agriculturalist
with comprehensive experience in dealing with farmers, and a training officer.
HEADQUARTERS STAFFNG
46.   The HQ Division, apart from the general management of the service, would have the following
broad functions:
(i) Designing and coordinating the training programs: reorientation, in-service and technical;
(ii) selecting candidates for overseas training;
(iii) collaboration with the Agriculture Research Council in defining national research
priorities;
(iv) reviewing existing research requests and identifying technology gaps between
"progressive" and "average" farmers in the formulation of short-term extension advice -
packages;
(v)  maintain linkages to the research community



ANNEX A                                          - 52 -                        Project Implementation Plan
(vi) providing technical, economic and market information to field extension staff, and
generally sustaining a farmer profit-oriented approach to be promoted by extension staff;
and
(vii) participation in and developing mass media programs.
TRANING
47.    Training of trainers. All field staff recruited to the new extension service would require extensive
re-training. In view of the comprehensive training programs required, it is proposed to first implement
a trainers' program to produce qualified staff to cater for the various training needs prior to project start-
up of field operations. The training of 12 trainers (eight general agriculturalists and four with farm
management/economics experience) and who are receptive to new ideas would be supported. It is
expected that these trainers would also evolve into leadership functions within the extension service. This
trainers' program would be funded under a Japanese Grant Fund.
48.   The trainers would complete an intensive two-month course which would include the following
general subjects: a market economy and how it operates; the meaning of economic competitiveness from
the production perspective - focusing on profit increases, rather than production; the changing economy
and its implications for farmers for their production mix, and for extension; the role and potential of
small family farms, advantages and disadvantages; investment analysis; gross margin and whole farm
system analysis; participatory constraint analysis of the family farm; how to learn from farmers - listening
as an effective tool in gaining farmers' confidence; public speaking skills, the use of extension aids to
teaching and learning; extension through farmer groups - group dynamics and management, how to formn
extension groups; the need for and advantages of continuing interaction between extension agents
researchers and farmers. To the extent necessary, familiarization with computers and the necessary
analytical tools would be included in the training program. The training would be practically orientated,
with regular on-farm exercises interacting with farm families operating differing production systems with
various resource capacities. The training specialist would prepare guidelines and course material for
extension staff training to be carried out by the trainers.
49.   Reorientation training. The reorientation training would cover all extension staff. Over the first
two years of the project, the total staff complement would receive training. The course would focus on
the operational changes needed to effectively transfer relevant information which would be adopted by
farmers. A two-week course would be held based on the curricula outlined above. Each training course
for about ten officers would be carried out by the trainers over a two-week period. Provision is made for
other specialists, including the media to participate. The program would be organized by the training
specialist of MAF's Extension Department.
50.   In-service technical training. In-service training would focus on up-to-date technology
development from research, the latest development in market opportunities and on the extension themes
developed for various farming systems. This training schedule would provide for a forum to discuss
current farm constraints encountered by field staff. Regular in-service training would be central to
maintaining a responsive and motivated extension operation and establish a base for research extension
dialogue. The training officer from HQ would prepare and organize the program. The four Zonal
Research Extension Coordination Units (ZERCU) to be supported under the project would play a vital
role, both in delivery of technical packages and as listeners to problems identified by extension staff. The
media would also be involved and would benefit from the subject matter discussions for the formulation



Project Implementation Plan                      - 53 -                                       ANNEX A
of their programs. The training sessions would be for one week and would be supported by other
specialists as found relevant. Inputs would be required from agribusiness, banks and progressive farmers.
51.   Overseas training. Eight officers (four agro-economists and four extension officers) would be
selected for overseas visits of three months during the first three years of the project. The visits program
would be set up to cater both for short formal courses in extension methodology and practical exposure
to operations in the field. The candidates would have shown the necessary aptitude to absorb and
communicate and would necessarily have fluency in a West European language. On return, the trainees
would be required to hold a series of seminars for extension staff and be required to participate in in-
service staff training courses.
MONIORING AND CONTROL OF THE EXTENSION SERVICE
52.   Baseline survey. Monitoring and control functions are essential for effective management. The
effectiveness of extension programs are very difficult to assess because of the wide range of factors that
affect farmer decision making and profitability most of which are outside the control of the extension
staff. (Price movements and weather patterns are obvious examples). Nevertheless the changes in the
farming community need to be identified. To identify whether progress towards the objectives has been
made, a baseline survey would be carried out by the Institute of Agriculture Economic in Year one of
the project and that it is repeated in five years time to assess changes. The survey would aim to measure
current production parameters and farmer attitudes. (See Chapter VIII, on Policy Analysis Unit.)
53.   Component Performance. In addition, MAF's Department of Extension and Agriculture would
be responsible for monitoring project performance on the basis of the indicators outlined in Annex D.)
SHE ZUPANIA EXTENSION SERVICE CENTERS (ZESCS)
54.   The 21 centers would be strengthened during the first two years of the project. Although based
at the Zupanija administrative centers, the ZESC staff would report directly on technical and operational
matters to their headquarters in Zagreb. The administrative head of the Zupanija would be fully informed
of the content and planning of field extension programs and his advice and assistance sought in
mobilization of the farmer community and to provide support and endorse media campaigns. The ZESCs
would have no administrative responsibilities within the Zupanija structure.
55.   ZESCAdvisory Committees would be established in each zupanija to assist the ZESC staff identify
and meet the needs of the farmers. Membership would comprise of a majority of farmers with
representatives of produce buyers and the supply industry. Initially members would be appointed by
appropriate organizations including the Croatian Farmers Association. In future elections could be held.
Total membership would be 9. The secretariat would be provided by the ZESC. Committee Members
would represent the Zupanija on the advisory board of the Zonal Research Extension Coordination Units
(see Chapter IV, on Research).
56.   The ZESC team would maintain a close liaison and give operational support to the Advisory
Committees who would be their link to the formulation of research programs. They would provide
information on technical and market constraints.
57.   Each Zupanija has a different density of farmers and mix of farm holding sizes and systems.
Given the limited number of staff available and the large number of farmers the Zupanija extension
service would be structured as a resource center with four main objectives:



ANNEX A                                          - 54 -                        Project Implementation Plan
(i)  To provide information to private sector and other 'front line' advisers.
(ii) To encourage the establishment of self help farmer groups.
(iii) To provide specialist support and advice to advisers and farmers.
(iv) To provide feedback to MAF headquarters.
58.    The center would be staffed by a senior extension specialist (The Center Manager), supported
by 3-4 specialists, depending on the agricultural importance of the area, its cropping systems and the mix
of enterprises. Additional extension staff may be provided by the Zupanija (As is the case at Poric.)
59.   Some individual farmer advice is inevitable and will continue to be necessary. Farmers will
continue to visit the extension officer and field visits by staff will be required to ensure that problems
have been correctly diagnosed and to establish the context in which the request for advice has been made.
Other visits will be necessary in order that the ZESC staff keep in touch with the needs of the farming
industry. This could occupy about 15 per cent of an adviser's time.
60.   The ZESCs would operate through farmer groups and rely heavily on videos and listening tapes
and the use of mass media (radio, television and the press). Farmers groups would be set up and group
responsibilities allocated to individual officers and routine visit programs organized. To provide adequate
coverage of groups (20 groups with about 20 farmers) and assuming 4-5 visits/year, the extension officer
would be required to spend about three days/week in the field. These visits would be supported by field
demonstrations prepared by the farmers themselves with guidance from the extension officer. These
demonstrations would support the thematic approach which is the core of the methodology and would
concentrate on lower production costs, improved profitability, market demand, comparative advantage,
chemical application rates, increasing farmer bargaining power, improvements in tillage, and soil moisture
management, irrigation investment, analysis, etc.
MAss MEDIA EXTENSION
61.   The mass media already make a substantial contribution to the dissemination of farmer
information. Farm programs have a wide audience, and considerable scope exists for expansion of the
service. The project would therefore seek to generate a substantial information base for program content.
The training officer in the Ministry would be responsible for the co-ordination of mass media extension
and for developing information channels. He would have funds at his disposal to employ local media
consultants for specific tasks.
ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
62.   The principle of a limited public extension system operating at Zupanija level is fully supported
by MAF. MAF also wishes to control recurrent costs and to retain highly qualified staff and to invest in
their training and equipment. It is fully realized that initially they will be resource persons, and individual
farmer contact will be limited;  considerable emphasis is therefore laid on the use of multiple
communication channels, including mass media.
63.    MAF supports the provision of 'front line' advice by private extension and consultancy services.
There is a pool of staff available from the former municipalities and from the AK support services that
could be gainfully employed in a private sector role, complementary to the public services proposed.
64.   The project would encourage the use of paid-for services, which meet a demand, from farmers
organizations/associations (individual well-off farmers have generally access to good information).



Project Implementation Plan                     - 55 -                                        ANNEX A
65.   There are no legal obstacles to the formation of private consulting companies.
F. Envrionmental Impact
66.   The modification to tillage practices would have a positive effect on improving infiltration rates
and soil moisture relationships. There will be a positive effect on controlling run-off and soil and wind
erosion.
67.   The overall strengthening of the extension service would assist farmers in the safe and rational
use of plant protection chemicals. The increased use of integrated pest management techniques, awarded
priority under the adaptive research program, should provide for a general reduction in chemical use.
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FCOR
T1ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CONSULTANTS
SPECIAL SKILLS TRAINERS
Qualifications, The trainers will be specialists in their field able to identify the skils and
techniques appropriate to Croatia. They will have excellent communications abilities .and be
experienced in training advisers and scientists. One of the trainers will be expert in the preparation
of audio visual programs for the mass media and as-training packages fir fanner groups..
Duration. Course duration will vary according to need but is expected to be one or two weeks.:
Four person months.have been allocated.
Duties and Responsibilities. There is a need for the introduction of modern production techniques
on small family farms and for training extension workers in the use of the massnmedia and the.
preparation of training packages. The consultants will deliver participatory courses to extension
workers, researchers, private advisers and leading fanners. Subject areas, apart from use of the
media, are yet to be determined but could include integrated crop production, cattle nutrition,
efficient utilization of forage, producing fruit and vegetables for the European market.



n . . . . . . . . .   . . . ..            . . . . .... .   .   .       . .   . .  . .         . . .   .   . . . . . . . . . .   .  .    . . . . . . .       .   .   . . . . . .    . . . . . . .   . . .      . . .       . . .
.....   ...       ._...............
.   . . . . .       . . . . . . . . .   . ..                                                                                                                                                                     . . . . . .    . . .
.. . .   . . . . . . .                                              . . .   .   . . . . .   .                                                                                                  . .          .        . .   .    . . .  .
.         .....   . ..... .......
........   ..0. . .                                                                                   ..  ...                .  ..     ..                     ...........                                                                .           ..
. . . . . . . . . . . .  .    .    . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                             .  . . . . .    . . .     .    .  .    .   . .   . . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... .2                                                                                                                      ;                                                                                    .........
h I                                           - .     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ .            .. .. .. .. . . . .. . . .
~ ~~~~u'I3:~~~~~. ..........
. . . . .   . . . . . .                                                                                                                                                                                                    . . .      . .   . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
0 '0   0:                                                    1 .4                                    .    ~              ~. .                . . .
0     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           -~     .:     :. ............
~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ....        .......   ..
-I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                            ..........  .           ....                               ... ......  ......  .  . 
.          ..  .0 
..............  .                                                   ...    ..    .    ......................~ ~ ~   C
.......... 0.  .0 .                                                                                                                                                                    0.           ..            ....          ......        .
.. O.        .                   ......
. . .   .   .   . .   . .  . .   . . . .   .. .   .     .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   .   . .  . .
... .. .    ... ......... .....          ......                  Ab                .. .            ..............~  ~      ~ ~        C



So.
CD
-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<                                     4o
X   [:           B ~~~CDt  t5                                    CD . g 0      
co,   0 0                 oo ~~iC -3                        -
CD                                          U,~C  c
co                                     c o  (A 
i   E.  i         x    w  i      
Ca   ''                                          C  'X       t_   
~~~~~ ~~~c~                          Co
.~ j       'c~   C          m   X
g :a          8        w          S0  
-  ~~~~i.ar               Sr
@ D o          C  5      i a      t   0   S
C)~~~~~~~~~~~C
'Coo
0~~~~~~~
tT



ANNEX A                                                                      - 58 -                                         Project Implementation Plan
EXTENS ION COMPONENT:
IMPLEMDENTATION SCIEULE fOr CY9S - CY%6
AcTON                                                    M                                                      . IG  REsONS  ....
1.    Continue recruitment of ZESC  gstaiff                          Nov./Dec.  1994            MAE  (status:i done.
.           ....2....                                 ..2 Recruit: Training Manager  Decmber 194K  M      (tu:    doe)        .
3.     Prepare Statent of Objectives                                 December 1994              Deputy Mintr (Exten)
(status:   one)
4.:  Prepare Extension Progr  for 1995                               December 19                Dety Minister (en)
5.     Prepare Training Program9for Staff                    :       July  199                  Training Manager (status:
0   : f:  |i: i0   :t :   00       7::E;: ;  : i0 :gt; 0i:0000recruitment of TA  in-    ggglt0000 
i       f        :: :    77i :t::;: i : !:Ei:it; :     ::: f     C  p o es ):07      EF Eiprocess)i:'T'; i T   :: 
06.    Select Staff to become Trainersi:;X;:!i;00tti 0000 04 0  Sept. 1995                      ; Deputy 0Minister (Extenl) &8;g:ggg
gram.... r:..:  V::i:00:000002;:i:ti:0EiEi                  rTraining  Manager
::7.    Implement Training for 0Trainers  lt          ;               Sept.0/Nov. 019950 :000 :Trai:ning Manager gand. i000000il000
8.    Implement first Staff Re-rientation Traininngg P::g'fo:StLate. fJl     1995               Training  Manager4
9.     Procure vehicles and equipet                                     Late1995 .   .MAP adi Deput y4 
:   ii  i iE: :i :i:i;  ;i : fi  : : : : :i  :   : f   :::  : :  : Miniister (Exten) E Wi:::        :
10.  SIdentify staff      training in use of massr  media   Ja                  1996              eT r iing..anger
11.   Instigate massf miedia itrainingE:;:                  :   : : Feb./Mar. 19%g: 0              STraining ;eT* :Manager4
12.   Prepare mass mediaPrgrams0000   :;:;:0   0 tApril 996et sec   tInforlmation                                     - Manager*       t
13.:  Farmer Grup Formationi  ii lg00 00    t t0      t00tg000 January 01995 eDt sec  ZESC  Staffw-;0;0f:000:0X:0000000 i
14.7  Identify   pecial training      need s                           January :1995 et sec:Training M        anager4
15.    Instigate special needs itrai:ning          O:i ;;00:i ;; 0 i Cne gper year   t     : l Training  Manager*             ;00:0     :
16.:  Identify staff: for overseas 7study tours:  1 1 C:  :0 ;   June/Dlec.: 199570             D   :: :eputy :Ministere (Exten)*  ;   ;  : 
17.   Instigate overseas ftours                 :t:      ;:0:0:::0:0:Mar. 1996/                 T :     rainnmg  Mvana ger4;-gg:! S ; ::g
18. V   Prepare 1996 extension program    D0:: 000i 0 i00Xecember 1995        t0Deputy Mlinister 0(Exten)t00li000
1: 9.: :Prepare 1995 Anual Reporti                 0              000020Jan/Feb. 19960  ;;0;Deputy Minister(tExten) ; 
:20.   Activatet 1996 ExBtension  lProgram:  i ::Eit;     W:: 719960000: :000j:00000:i00Extension  SService- :tg: :     :::!f
21.   Identify and train: private avisers                             Oaf 0i;; i:   19c/l95/;    Extension Serice*      ;    :it
22.   Establish  groups  employing advsrs                         O!c)tober 1995   0            Private Sector withhelp:
23:.:   h-service itraining  :continues t4 :i    : ::4W ::0        :- 19950 et sec.fi0:0: iT:4!::  rainngManer*;   :E               :i
::!24.   LPrepare 1g997  :Extension- Program   -: ::t::-.StfDecember 01996 : : : Deputy Minister (xten)    ::  ;
;0 ;25.:  Prepre 0109%   0AnnalReportt    - ;;       i;:-iJanJlFeb.01099e700                      Deputy Minister (Exten)
:  * indicates World Bank  funding required.:: it                        :::  ::        :      :                     :: World B:nk
:   :i   i:    :   :     ::    i::iR::EEREi:iSSESE:E:i.::EESi:R:7::::E::E iE:i::E:70:: E  ::::     :   :  .. .. .....: ::   ..
:  i:XT   C X :: :  .;.  it-.:::ES:f::;;0::::000000;:00000:::SSSSSESS:::::::;!0000002iE:ti:;:    :: ::it:MEE:;:E: :   ES ..: .: .:  .   .. ..... tiEM:0
:   X   :   ::    ::::    :ES;  :::E::EEES:  !SEE::E::;  :EES;EEEE:tEEESEE:E:  i::    E  :ESti:::ti::tit:::   t  iEM:FiEtiEERE   T$EEEEEEEEERE  .. .. .. .. ..



Project Implementation Plan                    - 59 -                                      ANNEX A
IV. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION FOR AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
A. Components Objectives and Activities
SUMMARY
68.   The main objective of the component would be to develop a research service responsive to serving
the requirements of private farm families now operating in a market economy. More specific objectives
would be:
(i) to initiate and sustain a process where past academic and production orientated research is
replaced by a more analytical, multidisciplinary, economic and producer constraint
orientated approach;
(ii) to establish effective participation of producers in identifying priorities for research and
deciding on allocation of funds to research projects;
(iii) to introduce rational planning of research projects to resolve readily identifiable constraints
at farm level, with due consideration of the total socio-economic farm system;
(iv) to provide for a system which can generate research projects, award priorities and
effectively implement them;
(v) to develop strong linkages between research and extension through which technology transfer
and information flow maintains relevance to farmers' needs;
(vi) to better equip the research services to adjust to the requirements of private farming needs
and to enable them to implement contract research at field level;
69.   Component Activities would consist of the following:
70.   The Agriculture Research Council. The project would support an applied agriculture research
management system to produce relevant and timely information for the private family farmers. The
establishment of an independent Agriculture Research Council (ARC) which would establish research
policy and priorities for funding applied agriculture research would be key to ensuring relevance and
timeliness of research to farmers. The ARC would consist of a majority of farmer representatives (9
members nominated from each of the nine agriculture regions). The chairperson would be appointed by
the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry upon nomination of the ARC. Other council members would
consist of a representative of MAF, a representative from the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MOST), three representatives of the scientific community, and one from the agrobusiness sector. The
research agenda would be (i) open-ended and determined by the ARC, and (ii) would allow for a broad
scope of topics to be researched ranging from production technology to market research and development.
Any bona fide Croatian research institution, public or private, would be eligible to participate under the
competitive research grant system.
71.          Demand-driven research. The ARC would invite the scientific community (both public
and private sector) on the basis of publicly announced Terms of Reference, to submit research proposals
to the council, i.e. contracts for applied research would be demand driven. The ARC shall make such



ANNEX A                                         - 60 -                        Project Implementation Plan
rules and establish procedures as required openly to carry out its responsibility. The Council shall also
promulgate procedures and select participants for external and internal training of scientific and faculty
personnel supported under the project. MOST would carry out the technical and scientific review
(involving national and foreign reviewers) of the submitted proposals and would submit to the ARC
shortlists of proposals in the respective areas of applied research for decision making. MOST would
administer, supervise (including on-site supervision) and audit the research contracts. The ARC would
be assisted by a small (one or two) person secretariat which would call the ARC meetings on the initiative
of the Chairperson. It would also be responsible to liaise with MOST and to also carry-out on-site
supervision of applied research contracts.
72.   Agriculture Research Fund. Applied agriculture research would be funded on a competitive grant
basis through an Agriculture Research Fund which would finance incremental equipment and research
costs. In the context of applied research, MOST would continue, as in the past, to finance the salaries
and basic operating costs of the public research institutions; MOST would also continue to support basic
agriculture research (including salaries, buildings, utilities and equipment) and continue to support and
pay for post graduate students.
73.   The Agriculture Research Fund would be established under the authority of the ARC. During
project implementation this fund would be financed to a large extent through the World Bank loan
(roughly estimated at around 80%) with the balance from budget allocations (roughly 20%). In order
to ensure that both regional and national research priorities are being addressed a funding formula would
be agreed upon by the ARC, for a period not shorter than three years, which would allocated funds to
the main agriculture regions (based on the relative contribution to agriculture GDP) and to overall
national research. In order to ensure financial sustainability of the Agriculture Research Fund, MAF is
committed to introduce in the course of project implementation modest commodity based levies paid by
the producer, once the overall concept has gained credibility within the farming community. This
credibility is largely a function of the relevance and quality of the applied research and the associated
independence of the ARC.
74.   Research - Extension - Farmer Linkages would be strengthened through the following steps:
(i) relevance of future applied research would be improved by the above approach, which
focuses on farmer representation both at the district and the national level. At the district
level, extension and research would be guided by farmer advisory committees, the ZESC
Advisory Committees, and Zonal Advisory Committees of four small Zonal Research
Extension Coordination Units. These district and zonal advisory committees would meet
regularly, and would guide the initiatives of the Zupanija extension staff. The Zonal
Research Extension Coordination Units, each consisting of two professional staff, would
establish a formal link between the research community (in particular with researcher
under contract from the ARC), and the public and private extension services, and would
assist in the coordination of on-field trials and demonstrations. A first Zonal Research
Extension Coordination Unit would be established in the second year of the project, while
the other three be set up subsequently after evaluation of the performance of the first
unit. At the national level, farmer representatives, nominated by their peers from the
district and zonal Advisory Committee, would ensure that farmers' problems become the
focus of the future research agenda;
(ii) invitations for applied research proposals would request a concept by the bidder on how
the research results would reach the extension services and farmers; this concept would
be part of the overall proposal evaluation;



Project Implementation Plan                    - 61 -                                      ANNEX A
(iii) the project has budgeted for field trials and demonstrations to be carried out by the
extension services; the field trials would be linked to the research proposals in order to
ensure on-farm experimentation. The successful research bidder would engage in
contracts with individual farmers to carry out on-farm trials under the supervision of the
researcher.
75.   Project support. The project would support the establishment of the ARC by providing: (i)
technical assistance (partly through a Japanese Grant) to initially work out and during implementation
improve the operational procedures of the competitive grant based research management system; (ii)
office and computer equipment, and a vehicles; and (iii) covering initial operating costs of the Council
and the secretariat.
76.   The project would provide the ARC with an Agriculture Research Fund of roughly US$5.2
million over four years which would finance all the public supported applied and adoptive agricultural
research (including equipment requirements) carried out in the country during the course of project
implementation. The amount to be provided under the Agriculture Research Fund has been established
in function of the amount of resources that could be levied from the farming community in the future;
and by estimating costs of four indicative research programs identified by the research community as
being of potentially high priority. Basic agricultural research would remain under the auspices of MOST.
77.   Under the project a training program for applied research staff would be carried out; including
a visiting scientist program, a research staff orientation training courses, applied research management
training, research management study tours for ARC members, and research reporting seminars. Computer
networking of the Agriculture Faculty, University of Zagreb, to international agriculture databases would
be provided, as would be subscriptions to journals and books. The four Zonal Research Extension
Coordination Units would be phased in during project implementation as the ARC becomes operational
and would be provided with office, computer, and training equipment.
AGRiCuLTuRAL RESEARCH CouNcEL (ARC)
78.   The project would establish the Agriculture Research Council (ARC) to organize, plan and
manage agricultural research on behalf of the MAF. The Council would be the focal point around which
the research investment revolves. This newly created body, chaired by a member appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture but having a majority of members selected by private farmers from among their
ranks, would be the decision making body identifying applied agricultural research that is needed and
selecting those research contracts to be funded.
79.   This Council would consist of fifteen members. Nine would be farmers with one from each of
the nine agriculture areas of Croatia. Farmer organizations would make these selections of members who
would serve fixed terms and who would be eligible to succeed themselves only once before moving off
the Council but with an opportunity of being re-elected again after a hiatus of at least one term. Initial
terms for a half or third of the farmers would be only half or one-third as long as a normal term so that
there would exist a relatively stable body of farmer members with only a half or a third susceptible to
change in any one year.
80.   Other elected members of the Council would be three representing the scientific-academic
community and selected from among active applied research scientists by MOST. These three members
would have staggered terms so that one would continue through each election. The final elected member
of the Council would be elected from the agricultural business community. The principal roles of these



ANNEX A                                          - 62 -                         Project Implementation Plan
four members would be to provide advice and guidance to the Council as pertains to scientific, technical
and business-industry feasibility of possible research and development thrusts to be considered, to help
select domestic and foreign technical reviewers for project proposals and as trainers in Croatia, and to
help identify possible international institutions where Croatians could be trained.
81.   Appointed members in addition to the chair appointed by MAF would be a representative from
the Ministry of Science and Technology and a representative from MAF appointed by its respective
minister. The latter would serve a critical role of helping the Council coordinate research and extension
activities at the national level while the representative from the Ministry of Science nd Technology would
help the Council coordinate academic and basic research funding by this Ministry with applied research
funding by the Council.
82.   The ARC will have a permanent full-time secretariat composed of an Executive Secretary who
would be a senior science administrator with demonstrated executive capabilities working full-time for
the Council. MAF would provide accommodation for the Secretariat. This secretariat would be
responsible for executing the day to day activities and special assignments by the Council. The functions
of the Secretariat would be to: (1) convene the Council; (2) produce the agendas; (3) receive project
proposals; (4) attend project evaluation sessions; (5) prepare the annual report.
83.   The Council will establish its own rules and procedures, set its own agenda, decide what research
thrusts would be advertised for proposals and select those proposals it deems most deserving and qualified
for funding. It would prescribe the format for research proposals. Finally, the Council would approve
persons to receive training domestically and abroad. MOST would: (1) screen and prepare shortlist of
proposals based on peer review for submission to the ARC; (2) process award of contracts; (3) provide
for the timely disbursement of funds; and (4) monitor expenditures against implementation schedule.
ZONAL RESEARCH EXTENSION COORDINATING UNrrs (ZRECU)
84.   One such unit would be created in each of the country's four agro-ecological zones and each
would have an advisory committee of one or three farmers from each Zupanija, depending on the number
of Zupanijas in the zone, and one person from the agri-business community. The farmers would serve
staggered terms and be selected by the respective Zupanija advisory committees in the zone and the agri-
business representative would be selected by the appropriate agri-business organization(s) in the zone.
The advisory committee would serve to advise the zonal units about research and extension needs and
may nominate the representatives from their respective zones to serve on the Agricultural Research
Council.
85.   Staffing of the units is seen as consisting of the coordinator and an agricultural economist-farm
manager. The two science professional persons would have training essentially equivalent to members
of faculties and research institutes. The responsibilities and duties of the zonal units would include:
(i) Coordinating research and demonstration activities in the zone.
(ii) Assuring that extension and research were closely associated and that research reflects
extension needs.
(iii) Coordinating extension and research thrusts.
(iv) Following-up on the performance of research projects in the zone.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 63 -                                        ANNEX A
(v) Sending suggestions for needed research to the Agricultural Research Council.
(vi) Holding field days at experimental and demonstration sites in the zone.
(vii) Assuring that all research and demonstration results were interpreted in simple language.
(viii) Providing for training and updating of Zupanija extension personnel.
(ix) Assisting Zupanija staffs with special problems needing study.
(x) Serving as technical back-up for Zupanija staffs.
(xi) Publishing or preparing for publication such materials that are of significant relevance in the
zone.
(xii) Maintaining close contact with several local media resources.
86.   In the absence of such zonal units, parts of the functions would have to be executed at the
Zupanija Extension Centers and part at the central level in Zagreb. Of necessity, some functions would
not be performed.
RESEARCH FUND
87.   Based on four-year costs estimates (including equipment needs) of four indicative broad areas of
research that had been identified as being potentially of highest priority (the actual research program
would be established by the ARC) a research fund in the amount of US$5.2 million would be made
available to the ARC (see table below).
88.   This amount is also estimated to be roughly in line with what could be mobilized through a future
possible levy collected from farmers applied to commodity sales of products passing through centrally
located collection / processing markets. Such a levy would be considered towards the end of project
implementation, once the new research system is established and has proven its value to the farming
community.
SUSTAINABLE FUNDING
89.   By the time this project ends, there will be, in place, a new system of effective research
management and an extension service made up of public specialists and private advisors. Croatia must
be ready to capitalize on the gains during the course of this project in order to maintain the pace of
transforming its agricultural industry.
90.   When this funding terminates, the major change in circumstances will be an end to this particular
source of funding through a loan from The World Bank and, perhaps, others. The rate of change will
be maintained only if all or at least a major part of the expiring funds can be replaced with domestic
support. There are a number of ways in which this might be done.
91.   First, MOST already is supporting a large number of faculty members and the facilities in which
they teach and do research and also funds some small amount of agricultural research. One possibility



ANNEX A                                                 - 64 -                            Project Implementation Plan
would be for MAF to allocate its own funds to continue the adaptive, applied and strategic research
started under this project.
92.    A second way would be for the government
to levy assessments against certain commodities that
are marketed in ways that would make assessments
easy to collect. Suggestions were made that these                  Relatio ships Zup jabb
commodities be milk, wheat, oilseeds and sugar                  to Agi   Z                   -nes
beets.  One or more of these are grown by most
farmers and the commodities goes through relatively                     upanIa name
few markets or processing channels.  This means                            . . . .. .. .
that all producers will pay  something  and the           Pannonian region
assessments would be easy to impose. The level of            P1       Osjetko-branJska
assessments would be set to raise the needed money                     Vukovarsko-srijemska
P2      :rodsko-posavska
93.    A  third  strategy  to augment the public                        Po,eK lavonska
funding would be for MAF to match part or all of                      Vireviti;k -podravska
the funds collected by commodity assessments. The         :T3         Bejelovarsko-bilgorskai:
assessment route has much merit because part of the                   Kop1iYnlik0k revabka
funds will be generated by agriculture itself and the ..              ZaGreba ka    .
levels should not be high enough to be burdensome.                   . G     Zmoslavagtb  (part)i
Assessments are already widely and successfully             iap0 oza    
:  :4      :       K iko-zai6rika E:: ::i
used in other countries.
Medimurska
94.    In   order  to   progressively  introduce          Montregon
sustainable financing of national research, MAF
GI1     Sisatko-olaka(at
would establish during project implementation a                                 sraYa
project-financed  Research financing commission
responsible, through public and private hearings, for        G2       Li do-seuaska (part)
proposing means to generate revenue' and to sustain            ..........              .. . ..... .part)
:Zitdarsko-kniska(a)
the new system after the end of the project period.                        . ..ft.    ..ia-
TRAINNG                                                     Jl Istar*ka             
Primorsko-goranska (Part):
95.    The numbers of persons trained  at the                          Liedo-senjska(par)
doctoral level in Croatia should provide an adequate         M        Zadasonska    (t)
~ibenskiai:
source of research  skills needed  for a strong
strategic, applied and adaptive research program of          M3S      Splitsko almatinska .
> .. - . ... iEr irr Dubtovayka-neretvanska 
relevance to private family farms. There could be                       u ..   . ..n. .....
shortages of specific talents which would emerge . ..... .. .. .. . .. . . .....
after requests for research proposals are submitted.
1/  Calculations have also been produced on income which could in the future accrue to research, should a levy
of 0.5% be applied to commodities sales of those products passing through collection/processing markets. At
present, these include maize, wheat, soya bean, sunflower, sugar beet, fat cattle and pigs. A levy of 0.5%
on 1993 total sales value would have a provided a total of US$ 2.0 million annually. If matched to an
equivalent by budgetary contribution, together they would adequately finance investment in agriculture
research.



Project Implementation Plan                         - 65 -                                           ANNEX A
These will have to be dealt with on an ad hoc basis. It is clear that there currently exists a capacity that
is not fully exploited because of a shortage of research funds.
96.    A  reorientation  of research  staff
covering the new research structure, and
operational changes to accelerate the process of
changing attitudes and thought processes would           Agricultural Research Fund
be provided under the project.  Research                (Indicative 4 Year Program) I
workers would be introduced to the importance  ,                                    ...
of determining the potential economic benefits   Activity                           USS
in the selection of research programs and be     Soil management and derivation of
responsive  to  concentrating  on  practical     optimum fertilizer application . . . . . .   . 1,280,000
problems. The re-training would also develop     Regional Research Programns ......   . 1,480,000
the ability to identify the major constraints,
through a participatory process, rather than the  of improved tillage techniques .g.a.n.de. o t800r00
possible constraints within their own discipline.  Faimproveystimsagestachi..00,000
This reorientation would be carried out by       Farming systems research.1,440,00
trained trainers, and an overseas specialist     Toal Research Fund (4 year program>   5,000,000
would be invited to both introduce the new
would be invitedtobothntroducet w I-Actual research agenda to be determined by ARC.
concepts and give credibility to the approaches
being promoted.
97.    Ten candidates representing the major institutions would be provided with a study tour to visit
overseas research stations where these changes have been established. The candidates targeted for short
overseas training would be the younger mid-career scientists who would be leading the various sub-
projects and therefore require experience in a multidisciplinary approach to project implementation. Short
courses of two to three weeks, backed up with practical exposure in the field, would be provided for
twelve scientists.
98.    The project would also assist departments and individual scientists to develop interchange of ideas
through reciprocal visits to other countries where complementary research projects are being operated.
Initial priorities would be given to farming systems research, integrated plant protection, tillage and soil
management.
EQUIPMENT
99.    Equipment would be not be made available directly but only in the context of research contract
funded under the ARC. This would induce research proposals to minimize equipment cost and in
particular to try to find alternatives to the purchase of new equipment (e.g. sharing of equipment with
other national or international research facilities).
TECENCAL ASSISTANCE (TA)
100.   The Agriculture Research Council. The effective design and evaluation of the research program
relies heavily on the performance of the ARC. The concepts being introduced for project prioritization
and the radical changes to critically concentrate on national programs through a multidisciplinary
approach with strong economic evaluation inputs will need expert planning assistance, particularly in the
first year of operation. TA should be applied to assist in the introduction of the system, the review and
selection of the first-year projects and their supervision during the first years' growing season. A senior



ANNEX A                                          - 66 -                        Project Implementation Plan
scientist with experience in the functioning of research councils for a period of five months, over possibly
three visits would be provided under the project.
B. RESEARCH COMPONENT COST
101.  Total Cost (including contingencies) are estimated at US$8.0 detailed cost breakdown is given
in Annex B, Table 2.2.
C. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
DESIGN OF REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS
102.  The following provides guidelines for the development of the operational procedures for the ARC
which wuld take place in late 1995 with Technical Assistance financed under a Japanese Grant in
collaboration between MAF and MOST.
103.  The universal experience is that scientists like to do research and take every opportunity to secure
funding for their research programs. Another observation is that scientists are willing to change their
research activities to accommodate the requirements of the funding sources or the sponsors. It also was
apparent that many faculty, research institutes and former "agro-kombinat" research specialists are
interested in doing applied research of immediate relevance to farmers. While no laboratory is ever
"fully equipped", and with the possible exception of the dislocated faculty at Osijek, agricultural scientists
in Croatia seem to feel their facilities are mostly adequate to undertake the private farmer focused
research needed. No doubt that greater international contacts in the future will reveal deficiencies that
the Agricultural Research Council should work to rectify.
104.  The large number of potential investigators who have had very little if no research funding from
the state in the recent past and the large range of topics this group of scientists could address, makes it
imperative that the topics for research be carefully identified and described. This will permit those
persons with skills to do the research required by the Agricultural Research Council to be able to identify
their interest with the need and submit proposals.  On the other hand it would not give false
encouragement to those excellent scientists who do not have the right training and interest to perform the
research needed. In short, a clearly stated request for research and extension proposals would avoid a
flood of proposals that are not relevant and would help assure that the submitted proposals are most likely
to meet the Council's requirements even though not all of them could be funded. Experience elsewhere
has shown that there will be requests for more funds than are available.
105.  Advisory Input: The structure of advisory councils at the Zupanija and zonal levels is focused
to provide the majority of members on the Agriculture Research Council, assure that they are identified
by the best available elective process and also assure they are private farmers. These advisory councils,
especially at the zonal levels, have a stated responsibility to propose the extension and research needs to
the Council. These facts and the desire to make the research relevant to farmer needs makes it of utmost
importance that the advisory system is used and listened to during the planning of research thrusts to be
supported each year.
106.  Once started, advisory input to the Council should be continuous and suggestions accepted and
kept on file until decisions are to be made on which will be pursued. Six weeks or two months before



Project Implementation Plan                     - 67 -                                       ANNEX A
decisions are to be made on research thrusts once or twice a year, a reminder should go to all Zupanija
and zonal offices that any additional suggestions should be submitted in order to be considered. Members
of the Council from the various zones should also talk about extension and research needs whenever they
meet with the Zonal Units and other farmers and they should bring suggestions they hear to Council
meetings.
107.  Administrative Determination: The Council will finally decide upon the fields in which it wishes
to request proposals for projects. Having done so, it should scrupulously follow its own requests relative
to proposals to consider. Even if a very good proposal that does not fit the criteria announced is received
it should be deferred. If a non-conforming proposal is a worthwhile idea, the Council may add it to the
next round of requests for proposals and perhaps receive even better proposals from among which to
choose.
108.  It is suggested that research awards be made twice a year because both fall sown and spring sown
crops are common and they represent entirely different species in most cases. The call for proposals
would make this clear in the announcement. In addition to permitting scientists better to utilize recently
collected data, the two awarding dates would spread the work load for the Council as well as its
secretariat. Making more frequent awards of funds might overwhelm a system that is just beginning to
function.
109.  Eligibility for Funding: Any bona fide Croatian research institute, public or private, would be
eligible to participate in this competitive grant research approach.
REsARCH AND/OR EXTENSION PROPOSALS
110.  In order to fulfill the close association of research with extension and to assure that research will
be relevant to private farms, all applied field work needs to be evaluated by a standardized procedure
even if different priorities are given to adaptive, applied and strategic research and demonstrations.
111.  Some funding agencies which expect large volumes of projects use a two-step process. The
first step is a preproposal and, as implied, is a short description of the project. Usually a length limit,
e.g., 2 pages or 3 pages of text is set plus, the budget sheet. These are quickly evaluated and those that
interest the sponsor would be developed into a full proposal in the form of the project outline discussed
above. Those of no further interest would be dropped from consideration.
112.  Evaluation: This procedure is done on both the preproposal and/or the full proposal. It would
be done for the Council by a panel of anonymous reviewers who do not have a direct relationship to the
project under the guidance of MOST.
113.  If these were preproposals, the Council would look carefully at the documents and evaluation and
identify those of greatest interest. It would then determine the cost of these based upon the budgets and
determine how many could be funded at the full levels, and if all proposals would still be as interesting
or if the order could be changed or budgets adjusted. Then a decision would be made on which scientists
would be asked to submit a full proposal.
114.  Funding: The final step is for the Council to decide which projects to fund, for how long and
at what level of funding, perhaps negotiating for lower expenses by reducing the project or other means.



ANNEX A                                          - 68 -                        Project Implementation Plan
115.  Fairness and good morale both demand that reasonable research expenditures be made in all
regions. There are several ways to do this, but one way of allocating funds regionally can be described
in the request for proposals is based on a certain part of the total funds available divided equally among
the zones and the rest on the basis of a formula. For example, 25% could be allocated for good
proposals equally among the zones, and the balance allocated on the basis of number of private farms,
the rural population, gross agricultural product, hectares of arable land, etc., or a combination of two
or, no more than, three. So, as an example again, the remaining 75% of the funds could be allocated
equally based on number of private farms and hectares of cultivated crops. There should always be a
provision that if enough acceptable good proposals did not come from some zone, the unused funds would
be allocated among the others by the formula. The cost of the secretariat and the cost of Agricultural
Research Council activities would be taken out before allocation. New equipment or machinery needs
would be a part of the project proposals. New permanent facilities would be handled outside the ARC
funding process.
REPORTING AND DEFENSE
116.  A formal written report of progress must be required at least once a year for all funded projects.
This written report would be due a month or six weeks before new projects are considered for funding
and previously funded projects scheduled for extension for the second or subsequent years of their
planned terms. Oral reports would also be given at the time just prior to when new awards are to be
made. These two reports would give the Agricultural Research Council an opportunity to decide whether
the project has made progress enough to justify its continuation or whether it should be terminated
because it is not ever likely to succeed.
117.  If the Council decides to proceed with projects starting twice a year, then the report reading and
hearing tasks would be spread and the job of overseeing the results made easier. In case projects are
funded only once a year, the reporting could be made a month earlier so tentative decisions on continuing
projects could be out of the way before new projects are considered. If an outstanding new project
surfaces, the Council could still give it preference over a previously funded project that may be making
less than normal progress.
118.  In addition to Council members at the oral report meetings, the science professionals from the
Zonal Units should be present for the reports along with all the principal investigators making reports as
well as members of the technical review panels. It is important for the Zonal Unit coordinators to be
present so all can hear what has been achieved in the other three zones. The technical review panel
members will benefit because these reports will help them better to understand research problems and
perhaps make better evaluations for future proposals. They could also be used to help evaluate the
progress reported, in which case the would meet privately with the Council after the oral presentations.
These procedures are regularly used in progress evaluation. Again, the Council will have to conclude
its own evaluation because it is the final authority responsible for the research done with the funds
expended.
119.  One purpose of oral presentations is to allow questions to be asked from the audience so that the
investigators can defend their procedures, data collection, analysis of data and conclusions drawn. This
exercise will also be informative to Council members who will have to make more decisions about these
and other projects. It will enable them and the technical review panel members also to give advice or
suggestions on how to make the studies more meaningful and may also help them write better requests
for proposals.



Project Implementation Plan                    - 69 -                                       ANNEX A
ADAPTING TO EXTENSION USE
120.  Research results of applied studies will have no practical value until they are taken to farmers,
explained and farmers begin to adopt them. The information will need to be expressed in lay language
for farmers to study and understand. There are a number of ways in which information can be
disseminated. Some are listed as follows:
(i) Reports by the Agricultural Research Council of projects that are funded and where they will
be conducted.
(ii) Opportunities for farmers to view demonstrations and experiments during their development.
(iii) Local reports on radio, television, and newspaper reporting what is happening.
(iv) Reports of the results at the end of the season at the time the written report is due.
(v) News of demonstrations planned on the basis of what more complex experiments have shown.
(vi) Writing of pamphlets or bulletins for farmer use with the Zonal Unit science professionals and
research investigators cooperating.
(vii) Hold instructional meetings for farmers in each Zupanija.
(viii) Hold informational meetings for extension professionals and farm advisors in each zone.
121.  As always, scientists should be encouraged also to publish their work in scientific and technical
journals and bulletins. These publications would be a legitimate cost of doing research. While these
scientific papers might be slower in becoming published, the publications for extension use need to be
distributed as soon as possible by oral, visual or written means. The urgency of changing the nature of
agriculture in Croatia demands that information be released promptly and put into use as soon as it is
prudently possible.
MONITORING
122.  Component monitoring would be carried out by MAF's Department of Agriculture and of
Extension on the basis of the Performance Indicators outlined in Annex D.



ANNEX A                                        - 70 -                        Project Implementation Plan
V. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION FOR ANIMAL
HEALTH SUPPORT SERVICES
A. DETAILED DESIGN FEATURES
123.  Current constraints with livestock disease control in Croatia, and to a lesser degree veterinary
epidemiology, are associated with outdated diagnostic equipment, inadequately trained staff, insufficient
resources for monitoring aspects of animal health and food quality particularly food residues, and
inefficient data management and information dissemination. Project investment would assist in providing
the basic resources to overcome these constraints and is focused on the government veterinary sector were
these services are expected to remain for the foreseeable future, due to the public goods nature of these
services.
124.  Summary. Animal Health would be improved through the strengthening of epidemiological
services leading to better disease identification and eradication programs. The National Veterinary
Institute (NVI) and its four regional branches would be provided with vehicles and a comprehensive range
of equipment to intensify the national disease surveillance program, a process which would be
complemented by strengthened border quarantine posts. NVI national and regional animal health data
bases would be linked to a strengthened MAF epidemiological service, and MAF's national disease
reporting service strengthened to support national disease eradication and international disease reporting
requirements. Private and public veterinarian technical and managerial skills would be improved through
local and overseas training. The National Veterinary Chamber would be strengthened. International
specialists would support the data management and veterinarian training programs.
125.  Detailed Features. Veterinary epidemiological services of the NVI would be reinforced by
provision of two national epidemiologist and two vehicles for field work, the development of a
epidemiological information service, establishment of a comprehensive Enzyme Linked Immuno-sorbent
Assay (ELISA)-based diagnostic service2 and through additional equipment to selected departments of
NVI, particularly the food residue detection laboratory (Table 1). Equipment would also be provided for
mastitis monitoring and blood, faecal and plant tissue analysis capability in support private veterinary
practices and farmers participating in a whole herd health program.
126.  The four regional diagnostic centers would be assisted with ELISA and other equipment to enable
them to support the national epidemiological service and regional whole herd health programs (Table 2).
Equipment would also be provided to the Poultry Institute in Zagreb to strengthen its support capacity
(Table 2). Overseas training programs, estimated at 18 person months, for staff at the NVI and regional
laboratories would address deficiencies in disease diagnostic capability and be linked to the supply of new
equipment and services.
2/ ELISA is an immunoassay test which is superseding more traditional disease identification tests,
particularly for infectious diseases. Its advantages include low cost, high speed, field applicability
and relatively high enzyme-labeled antibodies or anti-immunoglobulins, which attach themselves
respectively to the infective viral/bacterial antigens or antibodies (produced in response to disease
infection) in the sample. Color-coded "detectors" are subsequnetly added to provide visual evidence
of infection.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 71 -                                        ANNEX A
127.  Disease reporting and information management would be improved with the establishment of a
computer network linking MAF's Zupanije (i.e., district level) veterinary inspection services and MAF's
border control posts to NVI (Table 3). This would be first initiated in project Year 1, and expanded to
the full network in Year 2 after proving effectiveness. A standard word processing and database
management software package would also be provided with each unit. Technical assistance support of 5
person-months to design and test an integrated data base and familiarize staff with its use would also be
provided. Additional technical assistance would include two person-months for whole herd health
management and three person-months for veterinary epidemiology (2 visits).
128.  Six all terrain vehicles, one each to the NVI, the four regional institutes and the Poultry Institute,
would be provided for field investigation and sample transfer work. Each vehicle would be fitted with
a post-mortem kit, field microscope and transportable cold chain. Two liaison vehicles would also be
provided to NVI (Table 4).
129.  Each of the border control posts where veterinary inspection staff are based, would be supplied
with a computer system including a laser printer and modem for connection to a national network for the
transfer of disease reports and related epidemiological information. The project would provide 20 person
months (two weeks per staff member) of introductory training for Zupanije veterinary inspectors in
computer operation and the use of the custom-designed data management software package (see para 10).
130.  A project financed re-orientation training program (Table 5) would be designed to provide private
veterinary practices with the technical and management skills needed for efficient operation. In parallel
with the Zupanije program, one veterinary doctor per practice would be provided an introductory course
in computers and related office and data management (50 person-months). The project would contract the
Croatian Veterinary Faculty (working in collaboration with the Veterinary Chamber) to identify and
design a series of short courses for private veterinary practitioners on technical subjects including, though
not limited to, whole herd health and production management, fertility management, ruminant and non-
ruminant nutrition, artificial insemination, management-related disease, animal housing and welfare, small
animal work and ELISA technology. Course work would be structured to fit the work program of a
private veterinary practice by regional weekend or evening seminars and tutorials. Provision has been
made for the preparation on contract of 10 such courses, including all course teaching materials, at an
estimated cost of US$ 10,000 each. Participants would pay in advance a course fee to cover the recurrent
costs of the course including lecturers' salaries.
131.  The support provided to NVI and the regional institutes would not entail any additional staffing.
An estimate of additional recurrent costs to make full use of the equipment that would be supplied by the
project is US$ 250,000 per annum or 10 per cent of the investment cost. It is expected that these cost will
be largely recovered through inspection fees.
132.  This component would also provide short term support to Croatian animal health services by
assisting the fledgling Veterinary Chamber to provide technical, ethical and professional support to
veterinary doctors in Croatia, subject to the legal recognition of the Veterinary Chamber under the new
Veterinary Law. It is expected that a successful and efficient support organization for the veterinary
profession would attract the majority of qualified veterinary doctors who are presently not members and
would thus become even more effective in its support and regulatory functions.
133.  Support would include equipping the Chamber's office (furniture, photocopier, communications
equipment and computer hardware and software); the publication of a Croatian Veterinary Code; and the
cost of publishing 12 issues of a quarterly veterinary newsletter (Table 6).



ANNEX A                                         -72 -                         Project Implementation Plan
B. ANIMAL HEALTH SUPPORT SERVICES COSTS
134.  The total cost (including contingencies) of the Animal Health Support Services Component is
estimated at US$6.1 million. A detailed cost breakdown is given in Annex B, Table 2.4.
C. BENEFTs AND BENEFIcIARES
135.  The expected benefits from this program are:
(i) an increased capacity of the regulatory veterinary services to diagnose and control the major
diseases of animal and public health importance;
(ii) a national, readily accessible data bank on disease distribution and occurrence to assist
Government in policy and planning work and to fulfil its obligations toward disease
reporting to the international community;
(iii) capability by the statutory veterinary institutes to analyze products of animal origin intended
for human consumption and use thus ensuring protection of public safety and health;
(iv) the capacity to monitor quality of exported food products thereby protecting the integrity of
existing markets and opening opportunity for new markets, particularly for "healthy" foods;
(v) an improved diagnostic and clinical service for farmers through the regulatory and private
veterinary services;
(vi) an effective professional and regulatory body for animal health matters; and
(vii) a body of veterinary doctors aware of and competent to carry out the professional services
required of them by the farming community.
136.  Beneficiaries will be the private farmers who will have access to enhanced cost-effective
veterinary services and thus improving the opportunity to earn greater profits. Government would also
benefit in having access to additional and more readily available animal health data on which to make
planning and policy decisions.
C. MANAGEMENT
137.  The Director, Veterinary Directorate, MAF, would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the animal health sub-program. The Director would also be directly responsible for
the planning and implementation of the epidemiology program but would delegate responsibility for the
strengthening of the veterinary diagnostic services to the Director, National Veterinary Institute, who
would directly supervise the project activities at the NVI, the poultry institute and the four regional
diagnostic laboratories. The training modules to be produced for private veterinary practitioners would
be contracted to the Veterinary Faculty of Zagreb University which, supported by the Veterinary
Chamber in the prioritization of subject matter, would be assisted in their development by selected,



Project Implementation Plan                    - 73 -                                       ANNEX A
internationally recruited technical advisors. The Croatian Veterinary Chamber would implement its own
development as financed by the project and would collaborate with the Veterinary Faculty in the
implementation of the private veterinary training program.
D. IMPLEMENTATION
138.  The program would be executed over the four years of the project life. Laboratory equipment,
for NVI would be purchased in stages over three years while computers specifically for its use would be
made available in year one: one liaison vehicle and the 4-WD vehicle would also be made available in
year one. Laboratory equipment, computers and vehicles for the four regional institutes and the Poultry
Institute would be phased to equip two centers in year one, and three in year two. Computer equipment
to the Zupanije and border stations would first be pilot tested, then expanded to a full network in Year
3 assuming initial successful utilization of services provided.
139.  The main training and data base computer would be made available at the beginning of year one
and the data base program for epidemiology. Training of technicians, computer operators and private
veterinary practitioners would begin in year one and continue through the life of the project. Modules
for training of private veterinary practitioners would be prepared in a sequence of four modules in Year
one and three modules each in Years two and three of the project.
140.  Assistance to the Croatian Veterinary Chamber would be provided in year one.



ANNEX  A                                                          - 74 -                                   Project Implementation Plan
Table1.  Laboratoryt  Eduipment for the  National VeteiayInstituteM
(Central fInstiute, 7;agreb)
No0 :t;fi;>.;  De I)*scnipt.on            . . . :  . . . ...Quantity e                    Unit Cost        Total C..ost  ::
f0W000000;;:;;A; i    :;E:;;::0 ii:E: i::        :i;E:A;Ef  7  ::;:;0:::4(US$)i;;it t: (US$s: ) 
0   10. : : ELISA-set.i complete gprocessor for serologies assay  : 0  :   :     l::S20:i0 |::i 4,W0 00 :     80,Q0000; 
(dg00 ; ;i:iilution,: washiingg, colorimetric reading fwith primer).0: ;: ;;;i;     :tggt;;0y40j: :;;0 ;0:0  ::
ig :2. :: Auto-diluter systm Sfur perform programmable Eseriai;lSgt:000igit      :300::0:;: g4t2)40: :::::0    7,200 
i 0: ::  t 0::dilutionsC,. washing and aspirating for serologies assays.        
0:t3.   :Microscope, transmitted light equipment, binocular            :        ::::2 :: :10,00                 20,0000 
: ; magnification 1000 x, equipments for dark field phase:
:  i;0j000   :0cont.rast..and.photography .    . . . . . . . 
04. 40;Microscope 0for immuno-fluorescence microscopy.             0       002       0  ;  24,000             48,000
5.   ATf:WB system for automated Aidentification of bacteria.        0  ;:  1         ;02 0110,000;         110,000
6.;   Auto-clave high pressure steam sterilizer for sterilizing         ;  i0: 1        0   105,00000         105,000
liquids in closed vessels. Usefiul chamber;dimensions .  . . . . .  .
;:;:       :minimal: broad 600 mm, high 600 mm, Cdeep 90mm.                                                 ;
i:tAt47.   Incubator bacteriological, air flow useful jchamber dimensions        ;030         ;5,0000;;        i 5,000
00000;  mrinimal: 0600 x600 x 0500 mm.          00  0:00l00;;:;!  jj       0 0              0   f          7
8$.Ef0 Incubatorfor tissue culture with the programmed control of  :    01                 30,000             30,000
t     micro-climate (C02, humiidity), useful chamber dimension:
: tti 800 x 600 x 500 mm.
ig:9.   Universal laboratory centrifulge (speed 4500/mmn), swing-out            2             5,200             10,400
rotor 96 x 10 ml, angle Crotor 50 ml, 250 ml, 500 rnl.
10.0 0 High speed irefrigerated centrifuge                                    1    ;i;t4 ;;; 00i     20,000      20,000
11.   Apparatus 0system for iautomatic detection of trichinella in             1             7,570              7,570
meat and meat products.;     
12.   Lyophilizator system for freeze-drying vaccine or serumns and ;             1        40,000             40,000
.automatic corking the bottes under vacuum. Computer    
;; ti;; ;7gcontrolled capacity 5 kg of ice.  . . . . . . . . .  . .
13. i   Fermenter system for mass cultivation of bacteria and aniimalX       C1            0 90,000           90,000
; 040: cells (for antigen or vaccine* production).      :X:i                          0
.........                      -        y      Ut CTotalT(A):     oto583,170
B.EHematological and clinical biochemistry diagnostic;                                       ii;:000i            0t
14.  iSystem for automatic counting oand identification of blood              1              ,800             22,800
cells.     t  
; 15.:  System for automatic cliniical bio-chemistry analysis of               I            51 :|   61250      56,250
animals serut cand plasma.           f  s                                            4;;;;              80 oce.
:                            ~~~~~~~Total (8):  g  ;:;0 ;79,050
C.Mastitis detection and control of raw milk            r        :                        .    ...
16.   Aparatus o for automatic counting of somatic cells in milk.             1           123,000            123,000
17.. Aparats for automatic counting of bacteria inraw milk. r1                             45,000             45,000
7 ::018.g  :   Apparatus for: automatic measuremnent of milk comnponents:  j    :I    :      0           1            l: 52,000  52,0:00
gfat, gprotein, lactose, dry mnatter (solids) oetc
19.   Croscope Asystem for autom ated detection of added water to                           2,000.            2,000
E :;:; raw imilk S(16-019 CFoss Electric, Denmark).       g ;:::::                   ;;;      :                   F
6.   Au0;l;to- 0lave000 0:; high          'I'            zingTotal (C):1                                  1222,1000       0
:  t Ct:!fffttpreguS: re steam: :  s    : :,,teri, izro  get,:,,t,l::r,,: ::::,::i: tCC ,, 
::: ~  ~     ~     .. :..:..:: : ::::::. .:EFTE:EE:ERi:             :::     ::                       :     :E
:  iud :::  clse  veses Us: :ch:::::b:: di:::  :::                                 :: Eons



CD
>
z 41    >       4                                                                               , ox                                                                              CD
rL
L,   a   a
L3                                        9; Pt 4rQ-    9
4.4    o                           0  0       U.    C_- 22.
CO,                                                          <
SD                                                                    a  RM         R.,
-  r.                El
CL                               O"          i5                rQ,
8         ia
0.    El p
91.                                                                   a  >4
S
ja     % 4  r  w                   a         S             rm                   X                        El
=1 Cs.4                                                                                                                                                   ILA
w                                            M 
CO a
co
PO    :4      00    W                 La W  Ul
f.A              a,    J,,)                                            U) -  %
tA                                                          '4:1
a  oo
00 t
O()
La        LA b *O
O                         ua                aN            oo             00
C)                                                         C)                t.A           00
O                          Cl                       C,
Z
tTi



ANNEX A                                                  - 76 -                             Project Implementation Plan
Table 2.  Ltboratory Equipment foithe Regional Vetiary Lboratories
Base.
No.  Regional Laboratory/Equipment                                     Quantity   Unit Cost   TotaL .Cot
(us$)       (US$)
KFR2EVCI
1. tApparatus system for preparing offoodand water sampleswith           1         3,300        3,300
destruction-digestion for macro Kieldahl: procedure.
2.   System for fhst: automated analysis of protein (N) in feed and raw plant  1                18,2501
material by macro Kjeldahl procedure.
3.   System for automated extraction of fat from foods,: raw plant material  1     17,630       17,630
(Soxhiet procedure).
4.  :Microscope, transmnitted light equipment, binocular magnification 1000 x,  2  10,000       20,000
equipments for dark field phase contrast and photography.
5.   ELISA photometer complete.                                          1         12,350       12,350
6.   UV/VJS spectrometer complete.                                       1        28,504       28,504
7.   HPLC (UVNVIS) complete.                                             1         89,892       89,892
8.   Glassware cleaning machine.                                         1         11,122       11,122
Total.                           213,528
VINKOVCI
9.   Microscope, transmitted light equipment, binocular magnification 1000 x,  1  24,000       24,000
equipments for dark ifield phase contrast and photography.
10.  ELISA photometer.                                                    1        12,350       12,350
11.   System "Tecator' Sweden (the same as 1-4).                          1        47,650       47,650
12.  AA Spectrometer complete.                                            I        90,600       90,600
13.  Analytical balance, 5 decimals.                                      1         2,950        2,950
Total;                           177,550
SPLIT.
14.  Semi-automatic extraction system for determination of crude fibre. Six  1      8,930        8,930
samples processed simultaneously.
15.  Microscope, transmutted light equipment, binocular magnification 1000 x,  1   24,000       24,000
equipments for dark field phase contrast and photography.,
16.  ELISA photometer.                                                    1        12,350       12,350
17.  High speed refrigerated centrifuge                                   1        21,000       21,000
Total:                           107,350
RIJEKA
18.   Semi-automatic extraction systern for determination of crude' fibre. Six  1  47,650       47,650
samples processed simultaneously.
19.   Microscope, transmitted light equipment, binocular magnification 1000 x,  1  24,000       24,000
equipments for: dark field phase contrast and photography.
20.   ELISA photometer.       .                                           .1       12,350       12,350
21.   Analytical balance, 5 decirnals.                                    1         2,350        2,350
22.  p1H meter.                .                                          1         2,310        2,310
Total:                           88,650
Poultry Centre. Zapreb
23.   High speed refrigerated centrifuge                                  1        21,000       21,000
24.  Incubator bacteriological, air flow, useful chamber dunensions minimal;  1     7,500        7,500
600 x 600 x 500 mm.
25.  Microscope, transmitted light equipment, binocular magnification 1000 x,  1   24,000       24,000
equipments for dark field phase contrast and photography 
26.  Gas chromnatography complete.                                        I        69,968       69,968
27.. Amino-analyzer.                                                      1        85,000       85,000
28.  Microwave digestion system.                                   . 1    .1.      18,000.      18,000
29.  Cryostat system for histology                                        1        30,500       30,500
Total                            256,570



:9i :ivio:
. 'ON'O9l ---~~~~.                                              -   - -. . . . . . . ....- -.-- .---ao
Omooot          ooo:oz :ipxoj pa :y ao                                                                  it: :  :I1;qA am- :p        fl:  W
( W      O     t  (a %!                                     : ..     ..-- .   ...    .    .   -.  -l- n- -Ut3 3pq- .
:o'O.z .    . : -,.,O                                         : ,W3$U :IUJW :i,., -N ,,,-, -,-.. . ,.
X                          ~"w.M '    2'UW0A II 2o1qoTA Uospfl
:~~~~~~~~ ..- ... .......                                      .  ...        ...        ..
A-.-IQDgQIJS .:0 :MOWIS   --- -.iUJ03i :                                  DW.   :V .:.-.f
OOS'LE      OS-           -                              (w#pihv &z#rp Vx9   S3~lnttdino  isod nhiUOiL
(wopdux,nj
, O'z -,  :,. '-9$W)  snuu,  Z#W                                                           0 4o2        v  i      S    prm  e      dn
---.-'-. . .    -              ' '   '  .... . . . .   ,   . .    .   -.. ............-'
.:.    . .      . . . . . . .            d    -    -  '  ,x," ' - :
.. : -~~~..                       -        . ..    ''.:... :.  '     . .     .     .  .    ............'- ....-  ...
. 9 ' ~~~~.                                -- - . . : - : : : ..W, . . . . . . . . . . .......... ::...-..
. . - - ~~~~~.                         ...     :  :   -  --.-.-- .   -.:..... ..... .   ....    :::.: ,  :. - : :..,::.:
'LRL't.           -        -         -        m            j                       quT :x            o isodid tq d soot6suWtM90:MU
;  Xa~~~~~~~~~~~~mpou-tej
(:uo.-s poa  ~OflAftMOS nopuag.d.  .on                     ..os uo ddns uospop
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~z~ww 'no'~n 'arm -:--j -                                               :               -       :--uwoo
ooo.   r    ooo.sr                                              w)avww :4os suomndu&   p   ju nad n  Xip zv
fUOj  Wfl.         5W4                                                                                    uoW.  M  . X8j.$Iin
O()S'ZI    o(wZI  1.----.nEI WA    z0IMqT(4 1010PM P -11
(J~~~~~~~~~~~~POUa P],'s0losuXOl !=AWJ
-                           :                          w- -                     owN p. a4
-1-; .P .                  M      g -o; - ~ -;mo - -  4 .   .v"   Seg  BO S .. . .)a
, XRNNV                                                            - U:" -         A1                                    u. uzaq s'    ''l'x' ' ''oFd 'o'--'
': 1 ~~~~~~.                                 -.. . . .   -. ' .   ' -' ' : : . . . . .  - . :.   -'-  ' '. -   -' :;. . . . . . .......... -'':'-
- - _ :,, ,, , -.                                                                     . - :.   : :..   .   :---:-..*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                                             p3 a-w         I        :        UU2
- -  -- :"',,''''. ', ...............               . . . . . . . . . . .  , . '. "   ' . . . ' ''. ..          . ' '." .
.: .:  . :    .   -    - : .::.-:..::      ..::     . -: -: . ..:   :.:.           :    :.-:- ...       ::.:.    : -             . .....
v  XSNNY                                                    - LL -                                         wId  uollWuawa.....  ....   ..



. . . .   . ...  . .   . .   . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .    . . . . .   . .   ..   . . .   .   . . . .   . .   . .
.....  ... ........ .........  .... ...z
........  ......   ....                                                                                               ...........    ..
.. .    . .   .... .. .. .. .. . . .
...........  .... ...........
. . . . . . . . . . . . .  X   . .   . . .  X   . .    . . . .0.. .
ii                                                                              ;1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ... .....
..           ......              .
Ii   III   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii                  111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1.... ........
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~...    ...     ...                                                  .............. . .   ......  
.....L....                                                                                                                                 ........
It  ;                                                         .     ...                  .....                         .0...
..........    ...  .                                   : ...      ..  T i..     ...i......
. ..........a.......
..   ....                                                             ......... .....   ....                                                    .
..... ...............
.......                        . .  .          ... ....  ...       ....
a                                                                           0~~~~~................. Al,~;
C'S      o                                                                         -'~~~~~~~......           ..   ...
a 0      .   . .         . . .. .                          .. . .. .1. .          .. . .0                                        . . . . . .
c i        ,* ~ ~ ~ ~ .. . .. . . .    . .. . .. . ...                                                .       .
Q.   ............                                    .      .....~4                                                                                                    0-
.....   ..   ....     ....  .......   ....  .   ...   ....~~~~~
.....         .      ....-t                                                                        ........ .                       .0 ...
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .     . .    ..0.   . ..0. . . . . . . . . . .  .  J t n                       - .      .. 
X..                                  l                  ..... .. ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00  -               -                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...... ...
~~~~~~~~~~~'A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~..   ....
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                                                       . . 
~~~~~~...... b..o                                             b            i
n o         r   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  . ~   ..... .. ........
f  t ...   .........
...... ....  ...... ....  .    ...... .. ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ 5



rI
P4
00 :  t     :            \::0                           0      :      ;                    ::S
~~~~~~A.               . -      .   ... .. r. ... (1            0f   tv  W                  f   .....3.0  ......................................  
I   I  :s;             XC              g    f                   ti                          ;:010$$10i0:1                              1, 4i. (
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .                                               --- .. . .  .w'. -,'-. '     '    :   
Oa~~~~~~~~
LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
MEC                                -;-P   h    O'        S                     CD 
A-  -4                                                                La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U) O.k L 
I t:::;: 109           :;      \: ~~-J 40                    0                                       I0 CK 0%  (Z  aX  0
:e~       -      I| g'd    -                                           3  ;ub >~9        
' ~   ~     4 '"      .      .' .            .'                                                 '' 
: ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    Cs :t
4~~~~



ANNEX A                                                        - 80 -                                 Project Implementation Plan
TEMS OF REFERENCCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISrANC EER
- tt          ~ADVISER IN EPIDEMIOLOY                                                     0
Duration::W   ::;:Ei  010 person: month      ;ii:;i                  
Location :            Zagreb, Cxroatia   t                         :                      
Qualifications:      University; degree ling  agricultural1 science, v eterinary: science or biometrics and  an
. .. .. ...   advaneed dgree m  a feld related to a.nial health. ....
;  ; 000000|:   ;: At least 10 years experience; in the application of Lepidemiological stuies at a national
. . .      . . .    . .level...xtensive experience in the use.      I of  associated computer software. Computer
0   :-0-  ;     programming skills desirable.;                                         
i l : : :00000   0 i t t EDemonstrated expertise ini interpersonal frelations Ain a multi-cultural environment and at
:l 00X    0;;200i - gg00000 least sevrent years gexperiencei in Eestablishment and management of data bases related to
0000  : tggEill0-   00ll:S l f   animnal health imonitoring:. :E  0                  i;;          :  
Diities:         i    -Assis;t the Croatian N3ational Veterinary Ilnstitute to refine techniques for monitoring
- :   0i00ll-0   tt i0   i7 |   anial disease anid fparticularly diseases of publici health importanceE.:
:;i:;  tfttl00  t  00-;;00Assist the NYI to :design and start timple1mentation of a reporting system  to Government
t    -i0; 00   ;0;i;  -:00 | on tthe occurrence,  distribution gand 0importance of major ltivestockg diseases in order to
igii t ;000;00000000:i       lgg;gii;deviseg policy ginsEtruments ifor ltheirX  control and to satisfy Vrequirements: for Einternational
E  Eg     X:  ER  V i*; ;: livestock trae.E   :                    
; ;:;000000010 0 0;:::;i;X ;   -iAssist ANVI to develop a disease tinvestigation capacity and, based on existing knowledge,
itt  ti0  0T   ;  00   -0  ::ito gprioritie disease icontrol gin Croatia. 0  
f    :00000000000000000000 t;    ntroduce; supporting software andl train MNAF and iNVII staff; initsi application.       
.. .   ..... ..... : ::::    7    ::7:i::E:   :::7::::::::::: ::7i:7::::E:E:::::         :  :   ::::   :



CW,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o                                        0so
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
42           .         . C
s   S        X        a    -         a                                  |            I
:   0'      aS                                  :g 
Or 0l  X
-.         Q                       0      a ~~~~~~~~c
Ii ~~~~~~~' I~~5
CD ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C 
il



ANNEX A                                                                                                                                                                                  -82 -                                                                                                            Project Implementation Plan
i.  .     ... ..                                                 ... .  ..                          ..    ... . . .. . . .          ..    ..-,    \ ..,  .  :. ..     .                                       ;.                                                              .. .. I   .-. .       :-  -.....    --.   - .V:Vi  d- 
:-- A;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. i-.-                                        Et :                                                     f                                                                                                            i.   ..........    i  ,EEE---EEtS-:t-?  S--SE-fS  f-iF. TEEE. .-:....E :
.....E                -                  .               ..-7  . E. .. -  :                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .. ........
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                             .               , ,....                   -..   .   .   -,      -..... ....                                                                                              .     -.-....-0- -fSCf-;
:"'':  :::'"":SSt'   . -':'.'S  t':-,:-:'S'StS.-f:.CAXS:i.S-:--d  -f   :;S-;:;  iSSS.SS,!  ..;:. .- ..    ......              ........   ........0 -- -iC-
:  Z s         :-g-g-g; :: ;g;gg:  :                      ;             i          :         !    1    _ ;;                               ;-:fE :w lw                                                                     ;:> a :  tl:: :::t :;fllg l::S;0: ::-fiS00-igi:: ::::i-; :i; :040-:  l$ 0010-[0:. ...   . ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...: :...... .............                                          ..   .....   .  .           . ... . - . . .    T. .   . .   . . ......     ... . . ... ...   .:   ....     . .... .     .  ::::::. -...    -.. -.-
,        ..--;;C ;.....     -,. ...    0....                                                                    .....I.           ...
::::  eenti ::-. . . .                                                        . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .                                        . .. .     .     . . . . . .
:  .   :   ::   . - .    7  .  :   7   7   7                   :                     :             :                  .   7            7 7~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .                             ....                                                            ..          ......
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... .. .....:7 



Project Implementation Plan                    - 83 -                                     ANNEX A
VI. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION FOR
PASTURE AND FODDER DEVELOPMENT
A. OBJECTIVE
141.  The objective of the pasture program would be to reduce the cost of livestock production to
private farmers, to reduce reliance on expensive concentrate feeds and hence increase the competitiveness
of the livestock subsector by developing grassland production both on natural and sown pastures. Upland
areas would be made more productive through increased yields of natural grasslands and better
management. There would also be closer integration of livestock and crops in the agricultural systems
of the lowlands, leading to increased farm productivity.
B. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
142.  Pasture is among the most under-utilized resources in Croatia. Improved pasture and fodder
productivity, in terms of quality, quantity and seasonality of supply, could help reduce ruminant livestock
production costs and enable diversification of production. The enhancement of the upland grazing
industry could see the emergence of a pasture based upland cattle and sheep industry supplying weaned,
immature stock to lowland fatteners. Grassland-based livestock farmiing also offers the opportunity for
the entry into the industry of a much needed younger generation of farmers. Research into both
sustainable technology for incremental pasture production and the farming systems and sociological
settings where the technology is to be applied should help support the maintenance of the relatively
undisturbed environment that still pertains over much of Croatia. This would auger well for future niche
marketing of eco-friendly agricultural products amongst others, strengthened by project-based government
incentives in support of private market development initiatives.
143.  Pasture research in Croatia in the past has been directed to the development of sustainable,
livestock grazing-based production systems. Most pasture development has, however, focused on
uneconomic changes to the environment as the means of increasing perennial pasture productivity.
Expensive drainage and uneconomic liming and fertilization practices have made pasture improvement
uneconomic for private farmers. These policies have led to considerable government subsidy but only
limited pasture development.
144.  Government policy in the past has been unfavorable to the emergence of a pasture based livestock
industry and subsidies favored grain-based livestock feeding systems. A core scientific group continued
to investigate pasture production but its activities were severely curtailed by policy and funding
restrictions. The result has been limited progress in the development and particularly demonstration of
appropriate technology. However, with this small core scientific resource in place, opportunities for
technology transfer from similar environments and production systems in neighboring countries and with
its participation in a regional pasture research and development network, Croatia is well placed to
organize the rapid development of its pasture resource. The project would address the most immediate
of these constraints through investment in an applied, and more particularly adaptive, research program
closely linked to the work of the extension service.



ANNEX A                                        - 84 -                        Project Implementation Plan
145.  A re-oriented pasture development strategy would include: emphasis on species having low
fertilizer requirements and better adaptation to local agro-climatic conditions; modification only of the
micro-environment around the young plant; increased attention to marginal returns to incremental
fertilization; and management of the improved sward.  Exhaustive testing of alternative species,
particularly legumes, lime coating of inoculated seed, establishment of yield response curves to macro-
and micro-element (particularly molybdenum and sulphur on acid soils) and animal manure application,
increased supplies of single element fertilizer (particularly superphosphate), and improving and
maintaining pasture quality are key actions required to support a more cost-effective pasture development
strategy. With regard to pasture resource management, the establishment of land lease legislation, the
setting and policing of stock carrying capacity, and investment in low cost (electric) fencing would be pre-
requisites to effective management.
146.  The process of forage development must be supported by research. Some possible strategies
require further research before being available for commercial application but many are inmediately
implementable and could become the focus of a restructured extension service. The introduction of
wrapped silage as a means of fodder conservation by contractor service is also a promising avenue.
Plastic wrapped round-bale silage optimizes ensiling conditions and minimizes wastage were only small
daily quantities are needed. Another significant advantage offered by silage production is the capacity
to maintain production almost irrespective of weather conditions, thus allowing timely harvest particularly
with respect to fodder quality (digestibility and protein content).
147.  On-farm Technology Testing (OFTT) and field demonstration and the monitoring of management
systems adopted by leading farmers would be required to support the research program. Minimum tillage
is likely to play a big role in forage development through cost reductions and opportunities for relay
cropping resulting from more timely field operations. Unravelling the complexities of the practical
application of reduced-tillage farming systems would require tenacious research effort, and, as with the
pasture research program, much of it must be conducted on private farm holdings under practical
management conditions.
C. DETAILED DESIGN FEATURES
148.  The development of a grass-fed livestock industry would be supported through the implementation
of an applied and adaptive pasture development and research program, On-Farm Technology Testing
(OFTT), and demonstrations. The existing upland pasture research station at Sljeme 35 km from Zagreb
on Zagreb Mountain would be strengthened and research capability for lowland pasture and fodder crops
would be enhanced. Scientific staff skills would be strengthened, primarily through post-graduate
training, regional study tours and improved linkage with the FAO European Research Cooperative
Network on Pastures and Fodder Crops. Extension staff experience would be developed through
participation in the implementation of the OFTT and demonstration program, backed by in-service
training.
149.  The pasture development program would commence with a detailed assessment of the national
pasture resource by agro-ecological zone. The study would detail ownership, distribution and use patterns
of pastures, species mix and productivity, and agro-climatic and soil conditions. It would include the
preparation of a bibliography of published and unpublished scientific literature on pasture and fodder
production in Croatia. This part of the program would be implemented under contract by the Department
of Forage and Grassland Production of the Zagreb Faculty of Agriculture. When completed, the report
would form the basis for the development of a national strategy for the integration of pastures and forages



Project Implementation Plan                     - 85 -                                     ANNEX A
into livestock farming systems. Two person-weeks of technical assistance would be provided to support
this work. In addition, the expertise of a livestock/pasture economist would be provided to give the future
pasture and fodder development program a stronger economic focus.
150.  The project would support an applied and adaptive pasture and fodder research program, initially
in conditions relative to the mountain/upland agro-ecological zones. The research program would include
an OFTT program (where much of the field equipment listed in Table 1 would be deployed), implemented
in collaboration with the extension service and other regional research stations. The research program
would commence in Year 1 in the upland and continental areas, and Year 2 in the mediterranean area at
the Agricultural Research Institute at Split. The Institute would implement the adaptive research program
under the supervision of the Department of Forage and Grassland Production.
151.  The Zagreb University upland pasture research farm at Sljeme would be upgraded for use as a
training center in pasture management and livestock production. With only six scientists currently
actively working on pasture and fodder production, there is an urgent need to develop a cadre of younger
scientists to lead future research and development of this grossly under-utilized resource. The project
would finance three postgraduate programs in subjects including but not limited to species adaptation,
fertilizer response, fodder crop production, pasture/soil management, livestock production from pasture,
and pasture pests and disease. Students would receive external postgraduate training but would do
associated research work in Croatia. Supervisors of students would visit Croatia to support field research
work on a technical assistance (per diem and travel only) basis for a total of eight person-weeks.
Zupanije extension staff would receive training in pasture and fodder management and subsequently
participate in regular in-service training programs in pasture management. Pasture management extension
programs would be developed and promoted through Zupanija Extension Service Centers. Funds for on-
farm pasture management demonstrations would also be provided under the project.
152.  Finance would also be provided to strengthen the fodder corn and pasture legume breeding and
species adaptation work being conducted by the Agricultural Faculty of Zagreb University. Specifically
the project would finance a limited scope of field equipment to support an expanded variety trials
program, plot-scale seed processing equipment, one field vehicle, a desktop computer and the cost of
incremental laboratory services.
153.  The program would be closely linked to the work of the FAO European Research Cooperative
Network on Pastures and Fodder Crops (ERCNPFC). The project would provide funds for the active
participation of Croatian pasture and fodder scientists in ERCNPFC collaborative research programs and
associated international meetings.
154.  The support provided by the project to the University of Zagreb would not entail any additional
staffing. Additional recurrent costs to make full use of the equipment that would be supplied by the
project is estimated at US$24,000 per year for the laboratory equipment and US$12,000 for field work
elements or a total of US$36,000 per year.
D. PASTURE AND FORAGE PROGRAM COSTS
155.  The total cost (including contingencies) of the Pasture and Forage Development Prograin amounts
to US$2.3 million. A detailed cost breakdown is given in Annex D, Table 2.4.



ANNEX A                                        - 86 -                       Project Implementation Plan
E. BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
156.  The expected benefits from pasture and fodder development include:
(i) increased productivity and cost effectiveness of extensive sheep farming from low-cost
upland pasture improvement,
(ii) increased (possibly doubled) dry matter production of upland pastures to yield energy for
ruminants at about 20 per cent of the cost of concentrates and a potential to produce an
additional 0.4 million tonnes of milk or 0.1 million tonnes of beef;
(iii) high productivity at significantly reduced cost from conservation of high quality roughage
resulting in potential milk yields of 4,000-4,500 litres per lactation and live weight gains
of 1 kg per day on rations based on 60 per cent maize silage and 40 per cent leguminous
forage; and,
(iv) strengthened livestock-crop integration.
157.  The beneficiaries would be the farmers in both upland permanent grasslands and in lowland mixed
farms. It is expected that the low cost systems proposed would also favor young people entering into
agricultural production.
F. COMPONENT MANAGEMENT
158.  The pasture and fodder development program and the postgraduate training program would be
coordinated by the Department of Fodder and Grassland Production, Zagreb University, which would
take full responsibility for management of the applied research program in coordination with three
regional research institutions (Porice, Split and Osijek). The Department of Fodder and Grassland
Production would also be responsible for developing the technical specifications of the field and
laboratory equipment to be procured under the project (see Table 1).
159.  The OFTT and field demonstration program would be coordinated nationally by the Department
for Forage and Grassland Production. Zupanije Extension Service Centers would implement the
demonstration program in collaboration with interested farmers and use the trials and demonstrations as
a focal point for field days and farmer group visits. Technical advisors employed by livestock product
processors and input suppliers would be encouraged to participate actively in this program.
G. IMPLEMENTATION
160.  The program would be implemented over four years. The grasslands inventory would be
completed and the report written up and the bibliography produced by the end of the first year of the
project.
161.  The civil works related to the new infrastructure and repair of the existing facilities of the Sljeme
Pasture Research Station would be initiated at the beginning of the first year of the project and be
completed and operational by end-year two.



Project Implementation Plan                     - 87 -                                      ANNEX A
162.  Training of extension workers would be spread evenly over the life of the project. The three
postgraduate studies would be awarded in first two project years.
TRMS OF REFERENCE rOR TEACICAL ASSIStANCE EXPERTS
PASTURE RESEARCH SPECLALIST
Duration:           I person month
Location:           Zagreb, Croatia
Qualifications:     University degree in agricultural science, veterinary science or biormetrics and
an advanced degree in pasture production and.managent.
Demonstrated expertise in interpersonal relations in a multi-cultural
environment and at least ten years experience in the. design.and
implementation of grassland or range:inventory.
Fluency in written and spoken English (Level C).
Duties:             Assist the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and:the Faculty of
Agriculture of Zagreb University to design. and initiate implementation of a
national grasslands inventory.



ANNEX A                                                 - 88 -                             Project Implementation Plan
TABLE 1. COSTS OF LABORATORY AND FELD EQUPMENT FOR GRASSLANDS PROGRAM
NO                       Description                      Number              Cost (US$)
of units      Unit           Total
Laboratory equipment'/
I   Scanning mirror stereoscope                               1            7,350           7,350
2   Transparency illuminator                                  1            3,000           3,000
3   Laboratory equipment                                     set          16,500          16,500
4   Laboratory furniture                                     set          34,800          34,800
5   Drying oven ('000 litre)                                  1           12,350          12,350
6   Drying oven (50 litre)                                    2            2,450           4,900
7   Rumen simulator (Rusitec)                                 1           21,500          21,500
8   Analytical top-loading balance (300 g x 0.1 mg)           2            7,500          15,000
9   Laboratory top pan balance (4000 g x 0.1 g)               2            4,000           8,000
10  PC computer 486DX, Scanner, Colour inkjet printer, laser  1            8,000           8,000
printer, UPS
11  Laptop computer 486                                       1            3,500           3,500
12  Laboratory mill                                           1            7,500           7,500
13  Freeze drier (10 litre)                                   1           38,500          38,500
14  Plant growth cabinet                                      1           31,700          31,700
15  Cabinet water distiller                                   1            6,100           6,100
16  Glassware washer                                          1            1,500           1,500
17  Leaf protein analyzer                                     1           15,000          15,000
Sub-total                                                                           235,000
Field equipment
18  Tractor, 50-60 HP                                         2           55,000         110,000
19  Power tiller-seeder                                       2           25,000          50,000
20  Silo-mill                                                 2            7,500          15,000
21  Complete soil test equipment                              2            7,500          15,000
22  Soil moisture analyzer                                    2            3,000           6,000
23  Spring balance (50 kg x 200 g)                            5              200            1000
24  Hay moisture meter                                        4            2,000           8,000
25  Land measurer                                             3            1,000           3,000
26  Range funder                                              2            1,000           2,000
27  Pocket altimeter                                          2              750           1,500
28  Clinometer                                                2              500           1,000
29  Round baler                                               1           17,000          17,000
30  Mower and hay rake                                      2 each        16,000           8,000
31  Motor cultivator + equipment                              2            2,000           4,000
32  6-row seeder                                              2           18,750          37,500
33  1-row seeder                                              2            3,500           7,000
34  Atomizer                                                  1            2,000           2,000
35  Harvesting equipment for plots                           2 set         5,000          10,000
36  Electronic cattle scale                                   2            4,000           8,000
Sub-total                                                                           306,000
TOTAL                                                                                    641,000
'I/ Items 1-12 and 17-27 in Year 1, other items in Year 2.



Project Implementation Plan                    - 89 -                                      ANNEX A
VII. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION FOR SEED INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT
A. OBJECTIVE
163.  The objective of this component is to improve the regulatory and administrative framework of
the Croatian seed and plant genetic subsector, with a view to improving domestic plant genetic resources
and increasing the industry's export market access and competitiveness.
B. STRATEGIES
164.  To overcome identified constraints (see Annex L, Supplemental Volume) and to improve the
efficiency and credibility of the regulatory system as a whole, the project would (i) establish a unified
seed industry quality control authority, supported by an adequate analytical capability, regulatory
framework and enforcement capability; (ii) update and expand plant variety testing and registration
procedures; (iii) establish conditions enabling Croatian membership of international seed organizations
and (iv) re-establish the national gene bank.
C. DETAILED PROPOSALS
NATIONAL SEED AUTHORITY
165.  The project would establish the National Seed Authority (NSA) as an agency separate from but
answerable to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (see Figure 1). The purpose of the new Authority
would be to implement all regulatory and testing functions in plant agriculture as required under Croatian
law in an impartial manner and to report the results to the Minister of Agriculture. The Authority would
be supervised by a Board consisting of about 9 people, from academia, industry, and the MAF. The
Authority will combine, under a single management structure, the functions and staff and physical
resources of the MAF plant testing and border quarantine services, the Authority of Plant Protection, the
Viticulture Institute and parts of the MAF Forestry Department. The Authority is expected to employ
about 130 people, half of whom would be employed in border quarantine programs. While significant
staff savings are projected from the coalescence of these organizations, about 25 incremental staff will
be required to manage the VCU3 and DUS4 varietal testing program which will be moved from a
contracted to an Authority implemented program. The NSA would, in time, become entirely self
sustaining through service fees, as promulgated in the new draft Seed Law legislation. The NSA would
include, central laboratory, computing, statistical, research and financial and administrative services
supporting three Divisions, split on functional lines and responsible respectively for (1) Varietal Trials
(VCU and DUS Trials Services), (2) Plant Material Certification (Field Inspection, Quality Testing and
Certification Services), and (3) Plant Health (Border Quarantine, Integrated Pest Management and Agro-
chemical Registration Services). Detailed descriptions of the laboratory, office and field equipment
required to establish the NSA are contained part F (Field Trial Budget) of this chapter.
3/ Official varietal performance testing (Value for Cultivation and Use).
4/ Official varietal identification testing (Distinctness, Uniformity, Stability).



ANNEX A                                           - 90 -                         Project Implementation Plan
166.  NSA Central Services. The laboratory staff and equipment of the Plant Protection Institute would
be transferred to the NSA and supported with additional equipment and one bacteriologist. Equally, the
NSA Statistical Services, Financial Services and Administrative Services Units would comprise staff
transferred from the Plant Protection Institute. The Research Unit would employ a single Research
Coordinator responsible for channeling spare scientific capacity within the NSA toward competitive
research contracts with the new Agricultural Research Council. The National Variety Listing Committee
would comprise appointed experts under (i) the Chair-personship of MAF's Deputy Minister for
Agriculture Production; (ii) with the Director NSA a permanent Committee member; and (iii) the
Director, MAF Agriculture Department, the Committee secretary. The Committee would meet on an "as
needs" basis.
167.  The Plant Testing Division, would evaluate varieties for inclusion in a restructured National List.
This would ensure that the National List gives farmer's an impartial assessment of those varieties which
are reasonable to grow. This is different and separate from extension trials and demonstration; the
purpose of the former is to give an estimate of the interaction between varieties. A variety would have
to be distinct, uniform, stable and have adequate performance before it can be placed on the national list.
The Division would consist of two Services with testing commencing with the agricultural crops and
introducing horticultural crops in year three or four. The responsibilities of the units would be:
(i)    Performance Testing Service (VCU, value for cultivation and use);
Variety Performance Trials. The objective of this Service would be to establish
repeatable high quality trials which adequately discriminate between varieties and are run
by unbiased, well qualified NSA staff. These would be carried out from three centers,
a main center (Zagreb), a sub-center (central east) and a Mediterranean sub-center in
Istria, the latter to be established once the two continental climate centers are operational.
Each center would manage a series of satellite stations. Each center would be staffed by
a qualified trials manager, a pathologist, 2-3 technicians and a tractor driver. Total staff
would not exceed 6 persons. Casual labor would be employed as required. Land would
be rented from farmers on an annual basis and trials laid out on each location. The trials
locations would be serviced from each center on a day to day basis. Species would be
grouped wherever possible and the travel distance kept to a minimum. This may require
some relocation of the currently used sites. Yield and agronomic data would be collected
in an organized and timely manner, from replicated trials following internationally
accepted designs, under the control of one person (the center manager). Field trial
protocols (reflecting local growing practices) would be written by the trials working
group for each species and the center manager would be responsible to ensure they are
carried out.
(ii)    Variety Identification Service (distinctness uniformity and stability, DUS);
Plant Variety Discrimination. This Service would carry out trials under UPOV5 guidelines
in such a manner as to allow the discrimination between varieties for Plant Variety Rights
purposes. This function would be new to the trials Authority. One field center would be
required for this morphological work6, provided irrigation was available and that a
sample was kept to allow replanting as required. One team of four people would be
established at the location (Zagreb) to do this work. As well as expert technician staff
5/ International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties.
6/ It is suggested that the internationally accepted guidelines are used wherever possible for variety discrimination.



Project Implementation Plan                          - 91 -                                           ANNEX A
they will also need access to good quality reliable casual labor. This unit would be
supported by the centralized NSA statistical and laboratory service groups. Introducing
the full range of species into this overall testing regime would require attention to detail,
careful timing and organization because: (i) the appropriate regulations would have to be
in place; (ii) a period of change-over would be required where both VCU systems (old
and new) are running in parallel; and (iii) the DUS system would be introduced for
several species and there is little or no experience of such work in the country.
168.   The introduction of Plant Variety Rights (PVR) would mean that a sample of the proposed seed
crop would need to be verified as authentic. It is proposed that when a variety is registered for seed
production that a sample (drawn by a licensed sampler) be sent to the Seed Testing Center. They would
grow it in small plots for detailed maturity and off-type analysis (thus avoiding the detail of checking
large fields) and control along with the DUS group the distinctness of the variety, initially by
morphological means but eventually with electrophoresis. UPOV proposes to allow the introduction of
electrophoresis as a diagnostic tool in 1995. It is proposed to introduce maize to the new system first,
because it is the crop from which the greatest genetic/agricultural improvement could be expected. This
would be followed by winter wheat the next year and the balance of the cereals and other miscellaneous
crops the year after. However, the spring planting season for maize was missed. This phasing is
important because it would be unlikely that the proposed change-over would occur without constraints.
An element of security would be achieved by running the old and new systems in parallel for a year. The
old system would then be progressively phased out as the new one is phased in. The overlapping year
serves two purposes (i) it ensures data is recorded from both systems (ii) it ensures a lot of data is
recorded, thus allowing a good estimate of variety value to be achieved to allow a significant rejection
of poor varieties from the National List.
169.   The reference collection, i.e. those varieties already on the national list, would need to be
established before any additional varieties are added, because, it is against these that all new variety
distinctness characteristics must be quantified for DUS purposes. The reason for this is that varieties
must be distinct before they receive PVR. Maintaining a large reference collection is expensive,
particularly so when many mediocre varieties are listed and not in everyday trade. The reduction in the
reference collection would be achieved by: (i) introducing a fee to keep varieties on the national list; (ii)
re-evaluating variety VCU and only listing the top 25 percent7.
170.   The Seed Certification Division, would be fully responsible for the monitoring of production
quality and health in the field and processing centers and for issuing of all plant material related
certificates. Quality control for the bulk of the harvested seed is presently checked by seed trade
laboratories, usually at their processing plants. This is a very satisfactory system and should be
maintained. Again, the NSA seed quality control laboratory (NSA central services) would be the final
arbiter on all questions of seed quality and health. This laboratory would train and license seed analysts
and monitor licensed seed trade laboratories. The Division would be totally responsible for controlling
the issue of licenses and the maintenance of standards. Individuals would pay to attend the training
courses and for the license, thus the training element should be self-financing. The Center would include
three Services
(i)    Field Inspection Service
State Inspectors would inspect all seed at elite and super elite levels growing under
breeder control. Private inspectors, licensed by the State, would inspect all commercial
7/ It is unlikely that a list of more than six varieties within any species and/or maturity group is of any real value for use in
Croatia. Specific varieties may require PVR for export purposes.



ANNEX A                                          - 92 -                        Project Implementation Plan
seed, unless it was for export, in which case a State inspector would be responsible. This
would mean that the seed trade, using licensed inspectors, would control the quality of
commercial seed. Because the quality of the starting seed would be much improved over
that which is available now, there should be fewer problems. The Service would arrange
the rotation for the day to day inspections thus avoiding people controlling their own
crops.
(ii)    Certification Service
All field, seed, plant and agro-chemical inspection reports would be sent to the Service
via a computer network only accessible by authorized personnel at each testing/data entry
point. If satisfied with test reports, the Division would give an inspection certificate, thus
allowing harvesting or sale of the relevant product. In the case of seed inspection, control
would be maintained by the Certification Division by only issuing licenses to people who
have satisfactorily attended specific NSA implemented training sessions for the
appropriate crops and who manifestly do a good job in the field. The use of random
inspections by the Field Inspection Service inspectors should adequately regulate the
system. Incompetent inspectors would lose their license.
(iii)   Plant Product Quality Service
The NSA Certification Division would also include a Plant Product Quality Service
responsible for testing plant products against specific standards and approving the
issuance of quality certificates. It is expected that NSA will register its own quality
certification label, the use of which would generate royalty income. However, this
Service will only be established in project year 3 and then only following the successful
establishment of the Field Inspection and the Certification Services and associated
computer network.
171.  The Plant Health Division, would be responsible for the management of the national Plant
Quarantine Service, a Integrated Pest Management Service and the Agro-chemical Registration Service.
(i)    Quarantine Service
This Service, already established under MAF management would be transferred to NSA
management in the second year of the project. No significant investment is proposed for
the relocated Service. Laboratory requirements would be met through the NSA central
laboratory where a bacteriologist would be added to already employed staff to provide
a comprehensive plant health analytical service.
(ii)   Integrated Pest Management (1PM) Service
Presently located within the Plant Protection Institute, the IPM service has been
marginalized in recent years. The project would finance two incremental staff and field
monitoring equipment to bolster farmer access to reliable pest risk information. The IPM
Service would initially focus on a few critical crop pests.
(iii)   Agro-chemical Registration Service
The existing agro-chemical registration service would be transferred to the NSA where
it would be supported by a more comprehensive laboratory service. Agro-chemical
registration requirements would be brought into line with European Union norms and the



Project Implementation Plan                           - 93 -                                            ANNEX A
certification process channeled through the NSA's "single window" Certification
Division.
172.   The NSA would join the International Seed Testing Authority (ISTA) as soon as possible. A fee8
would be charged for inspections made by the Certification Center personnel for super elite, elite and all
export seed. Samples checked by the NSA laboratory would also command a fee, unless they were part
of a random control procedure. Efforts must be made to improve the quality of seed production and to
teach quality control as a management input.
173.   In addition to establishing the NSA, the project would finance the following technical assistance
and training inputs in support of the establishment of the NSA and the development of new testing and
regulatory procedures.
Technical Assistance
Position               Duration                      Responsibilities
Plant Variety Rights Specialist  three weeks    Review Croatian PVR regulations to ensure compliance
(two visits)    with European Union and other major intemat'l
organization norms; prepare protocols for PVR
administration
Plant Variety Trials Specialist  three weeks    Prepare trials machinery specifications; evaluate and
(2-3 visits)   select trials sights; review relevant regulations. Support
initial trials program; monitor results.
Seed Certification Specialist    two months    Design and implement a 6-8 week re-orientation
training course for private seed crop inspectors
interested in registration with NSA under the
restructured seed certification scheme.
DUS Specialist                   three weeks    Prepare protocols for DUS testing in Croatia; train
(2 visits)    NSA staff in their application; monitor results
174.   NSA staff will need to become more familiar with a range of new variety trials and seed testing
procedures introduced under the project. A series of short visits by NSA staff to selected European
centers is proposed. Staff training inputs are described in the following table.
8/ This is an annual fee, usually expressed as a proportion of seed production. Croatia would certainly be in the
lowest group, but what the actual amount would be is unknown.



ANNEX A                                             -94 -                           Project Implementation Plan
NSA STAFF TRAINNG PROGRAM
Subject        Suggested Loction         Duration                    Content
Plant Variety Trials   Germany and France   Two persons for ten  The NSA Variety Trials Station
days each             managers would respectively visit
variety trials centers to gain
practical experience in plant trials
management and analysis
DUS Testing         Germany and France   Two persons for ten   Practical training in discriminatory
days each            trials management and analysis
Seed Certification  UK/Western Europe   Four persons for       To study a variety of national
twelve days each      seed certification practices
Seed Quality Control  UK                 Five days             Review seed quality control
procedures
Seed Certification/    In-country (Croatia)   Eight days       Training course for NSA staff and
Seed Analysis                                                  industry personnel on seed
certification
D. COMPENENT COSTS
175.   The total cost (including contingencies) of the Seed Industry Development Program is estimated
at US$3.8 million. Detailed cost breakdown is presented in Annex B, Table 2.5.
E. BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
176.   The major benefits from the reorganization of the plant industry regulatory and quality control
services would include:
(i)  rapid introduction of a range of modem varieties (protected by PVR) into
Croatian agriculture;
(ii)  the improvement of seed quality to the farmer, this would ultimately allow
a reduction of 20-30 percent in the sowing rate;
(iii) an increase in farm outputs. The program should add 10 percent to the
national production in maize;
(iv)  a reduction in seed prices through increased competition;
(v)  an improvement in the organization, administration and cost effectiveness of
the regulatory and quality control network, with consequent improved access
to export markets.
177.   The main beneficiaries would be:
(i)  farmer would benefit the most through improved income from reduced seed use
and higher yielding, more efficient varieties;



Project Implementation Plan                         - 95 -                                           ANNEX A
(ii) MAF, as seed testing and quarantine would be removed from their direct
responsibility.
(iii) companies producing seeds and plant genetic materials which would have a higher
quality product to market domestically and more assured access to international
markets.
F. TRIAL BUDGET ESTIMATES
178.   The restructured variety trials program  would establish a system  which will allow  the
discriminative evaluation of varieties submitted for official testing, to establish and control their plant
variety rights, and register approved varieties on the national list as required. Species groups will require
specific machinery for either sowing or harvesting. It is anticipated that the sugar beet and potato trials
will be harvested by hand, with potato also hand planted.
Varieties in Trial Including Controls (1995)#
Crop                No.           Drill        Harvest       Trial Fee
varieties                                 (US$/Yr.)
Maize                        205         precision    combine (M)       470
Winter wheat                  89          gravity     combine (C)    370 x 2 yrs
570 x 1 yr
Winter barley                 14          gravity     combine (C)     as above
Spring barley                 11          gravity     combine (C)     as above
Oats                          6           gravity     combine (C)     as above
Oilseed rape                  18          gravity     combine (C)        390
Sunflowers                    25         precision    combine (SF)      470
Soybeans                      24         precision    combine (C)       470
Sugar beet                    20         precision       hand           470
Potato                        45           hand          hand           470
Miscellaneous crops           40             -        combine/hand      280
a - There are currently a total of 497 varieties in trial excluding vegetables, fruits and
flowers. In general terms between 90% and 95% percent of these are formally entered and
paid for.
(C) Standard cereal plot combine
(M) Standard plot combine with maize header attachment
(SF) Standard plot combine with sunflower header attachment
179.  It has been assumed that on average each variety is at an average of 4 locations (2 centers x 2
satellites) with the FAO 400 and FAO 500 maize varieties are at six locations that each variety x location
has 5 replications. Assuming about 600 varieties on trial in the project period, this will require about
10,000 plots or about 3,500 plots per center. With an average plot size of 7 sq.m. (based on 6m centers),
the land required at each center for trials will be 2.5 ha. Allowance for borders, discards and roadways



ANNEX A                                          - 96 -                        Project Irplementation Plan
would add 50%, making a total land requirement by each center of 4.0 ha. An additional one hectare
would be required at one center for DUS and seed production plots.
180.  It is proposed that initially, land is rented from farmers on an annual basis but in a prepared state,
ready for drilling, and given back to farmers immediately after harvest. The centers will require about
11 hectares at about 800 Kuna (US$160) per hectare per year.
VAUUETY TRiALS BUILDINGS
181.  The NSA headquarters would need a range of buildings preferably in one location sufficient to
install laboratories, machinery store, seed handling unit, dryer and administration. total area is estimated
at about 900 in2.
NSA   FRARucTuRE REQunREMENTs BY USE
Facility         No.       Size (m2)            Function
Offices              10 x 15m2       150      Technical administration
Office                   1           20       Computer Unit
Office                   1           20       Statistical Unit
Laboratories             1           80       Seed quality
1          80       Plant pathology
1          60       Seed certification
1          80       Ag. chem. registration
Work rooms               1           40       sample preparation
1          20       driers
Stores                   1           50       Material store
Total                    -          600
182.  A farm house plus barns would suffice for the secondary center comprising two offices, a
laboratory, a work room, a sample preparation facility, a drying facility, a store and a machinery shed.
Total required area is estimated at 300 in2.
183.  The headquarter facility could be rented for around KunalOOO/m2/Yr. and field centers at around
kuna600/m2/year.
STAFFING
184.  Incremental staff are required to run the DUS and VCU programs, coordinate research, provide
computer systems support and strengthen laboratory and [PM services. All other functions in the proposed
NSA are ongoing and would employ existing staff.
185.  The national and sub-center staff required for DUS and VCU field trials are as follows:



Project Implementation Plan                               - 97 -                                                ANNEX A
NSA incremental staff requirements
Position                    No.         Annual salary (US$)
Manager, Plant Testing Center                1                16,000
Manager, Plant Certification Center          1                16,000
VCU and DUS Trials Coordinators             2                 14,000
Plant Trials Technicians                    2                 8,400
Computer Systems Manager                     1                14,000
Computer Programs Manager                    1                12,000
Bacteriologist                               1                12,000
Research Coordinator                         1                14,000
IPM Scientists                              2                 12,000
EACH FiELD TRIALS SUB-CENTER (2)
Position                  No.            Annual salary (US$)
Manager                                 1                   12,000
Administrator                           1                   8,400
Agronomist                              2                   10,000
Technician                             2-3                  8,400
Field machinery operator                1                   7,000
FIELD TRIALS ANNUAL OPERATING COSTS
Description                            Quantity               Total Cost
(US$)
Field Trials                                   10,000 per year at US$30/trial     300,000
Laboratory operations:
Maize (Dry matter                              900 samples/yr. at US$20 ea.        18,000
Wheat (Dry matter/baking)                      360 samples/yr. at US$40 ea.        14,400
Barley (Dry matter/malting)                    100 samples/yr. at US$35 ea.         3,500
Rape (Dry matter, oil%, quality)               50 samples/yr. at US$40 ea           2,000
Sunflower (dry matter, oil%, quality, meal quality)   70 samples/yr. at US$30 ea.   2,100
Soybean (Dry matter, oil%, quality, meal quality)    110 samples/yr. at US$30 ea.   3,300
Sugar beet (contracted analysis at Sugar Institute)    90 samples/yr at US$40 ea.   3,600
Potato (Dry matter/processing)                 130 samples/yr at US$100 ea.        13,000
Sub-total                                                                         60,000
Total                                                                            360,000



ANNEX A                                                 - 98 -                             Project Implementation Plan
MACHINERY REQUItRMENTS
186.   Sufficient machinery is required to run each field center as an integrated unit. All the machinery
is based on a 6m. plot length. Thus 12m fertiliser and sprayer machinery will be required to cover the
plots (across). Little or no expensive tillage equipment is required.
MACHINERY REQUItREMNTS FOR TRIALS PROGRAM
Description                       Quantity          Unit Cost       Total cost
(USS)           (USS)
Fleld Equipment
Tractor (50-60 HP; 4WD)                                2                   35,000           70,000
Plot drills a/                                         2                  115,000          230,000
Fertilizer spreader (12 m.)                            2                    6,500           13,000
Sprayer (12 m.)                                        2                    4,500            9,000
Harvester                                              2                  116,500          233,000
Trailer (3000 kg)                                      2                    6,000           12,000
Total field machinery cost                                                                 567,000
Vehicles:
Large vans                                             2                   30,000           60,000
Compact 4WD                                            2                   15,000           30,000
Total transport                                                                             90,000
a - This item consists of two self propelled drills with all the equipment for sowing a wide range of seed types and
a cassette drill. When specifying the nuchinery care should be taken to ascertain if attachments can be
obtained for the drills to do single row, single seeding performance.



Project Implementation Plan                                   - 99 -                                                    ANNEX A
INCREMENTAL OFFICE AND LABORATORY EQUIFENT
Description                   Quntity       Unit Cost   Total Bae Cost
(USS)          (USS)
Lmboratory equipmnezt
Seed quWltyertion laborstorle
Seed Blowers                                     2               1,600           3,200
Thermogradient Table                             2              15,000          30,000
Germination Cabinet                              3               9,500          29,000
Lab. Belt Grader                                 I              11,000          11,000
De-awner                                         1               6,300           6,300
Lab. Pine Cleaning machine                       1              15,500          15,500
Lab. brushing machine                            1               6,500           6,500
Lab. indent cylinder                             1               8,000           8,000
Gravity table                                    I              I1,000          11,000
Lab. Calibration Machine                         1              10,500          10,500
Analytical balance                               4               2,800          11,200
Binoncular microscope                            4               1,500           6,000
Seed counter                                     1              11,800          11,800
Electrophoresis unit                             1              15,000          15,000
Seed moistmre meters                             2               1,500           3,000
Drying oven                                      3                5000          15,000
Ceniftge                                         1               9,000           9,000
Subotal                                     202,000
Chemical regstradon laboratory
High Pressure Liquid Chromatograph               1              75,000          75,000
Cutting machine                                  1               3,500           3,500
Grinding machine                                 1               3,000           3,000
Sieves                                          10                 500           5,000
Incubation cabinet                               1               7,500           7,500
Laminar flow cabinet                             1               5,000           5,000
Miscellaneous items                          hunp sum                           10,000
Sub,total                                   109,000
Phytopathology laboratory                      lump SLm                           49,000
lAboratory fittings                            lumap sum                          10,000
Sub4-tal                                    237,000
Office equipmnent
Office furniture                                 5 sets                           20,000
Desktop computers                                 10                             40,000
Sub_1ot                                      60,000



z
z
Structure of the National Seed Authority                                                                                   n
MINISTRY OF
IAGRICULTURE & FORESTRY
NATIONAL SEED
AUTHORITY
Computing                     Financial
Services                     Srvices
Statistical                 Laboratory
Services                     Services
Research                  Committee for
Coordinator                National Listing
PlantTstn                                         Plant Product Certification                                             PatHat
Divsion                                                Di%fion                                                            Dvso
varietal            Prformance               Field               Certificationi       Plant Product             1PM                 Quarantine          Agro-Chernical
Identification Servce     estin Service     Inseto serie                service            Qualit-y Service         Service               service          Registration Service
:9
I.
Structure of the National Seed Authorit



Project Implementation Plan                                - 101 -                                                 ANNEX A
Trade Restrictions on Crop Products - Mardi/April 1994
Tariff                   Customs Duties (%)
Import Restrictions                Quota      DM     Unit         Customs   Special  Admin.   Total
Cereals:
Durum wheat seed               110 mt    0.20      kg             0         10        1       11
Other durum wheat               10 mt    0.10      kg             0         10        1       11
Wheat lour                      none      0.25     kg             0         10        1       11
Non-wheat flour                 none      0.25     kg             0         10        1       11
Hybrid maize seed              200 mt    0.00      kg             0         10        1       11
Maize                           none      0.05     kg             3         10        1       14
Barley                          none      0.10     kg             3         10        1       14
Oilseeds and Oilseed Products:
Soy grain                       none      0.00     kg             0         4         1       5
Sunflower                       none      0.10     kg             3         4         1       8
Rape                            none      0.10    kg              0         10        1       11
Rape for seed                  500 ?      0.00    kg              3         10        1       14
Crude soy oil                   none      0.50    kg              3         4         1       8
Refined soy oil                 none      1.40     it             0         10        1       11
Olive oil                       none      0.60     It             3         10        1       14
Crude sunflower oil             none      0.20     kg             3         4         1        8
Refined sunflower oil           none      1.40     It             0         10        1       11
Crude rape oil                  none      0.20     kg             3         4         1        8
Refined rape oil                none      1.40     It             3         10        1       14
Vegetables:
Seed potatoes                 10,000 mt   0.00    kg              0         10        1       11
Potatoes                        none      0.10    kg              6         10        1       17
Cabbage                        500 mt    0.00    kg               0         10        1       11
Lettuce                        600 mt    0.00    kg               4         10        1       15
Cucumber                      1,000 mt   0.00    kg               4         10        1       15
Peas                           200 mt    0.00    kg               4         10        1       15
Beans                          500 mt    0.00    kg               4         10        1       15
Edible Fruit:
Table grapes                  2,000 mt   0.00      kg             8         10        1       19
Olives                          10 mt     0.00     kg             5        10         1       16
Apricots                      4,000 mt   0.00      kg             4         10        1       15
Peaches                       3,000 mt   0.00      kg             4        10         1       15
Apples                          none      0.10    kg              4         10        1       15



ANNEX A                                                     - 102 -                               Project Implementation Plan
Trade Restrictions on Crop Products - March/April 1994
(continued)
Tariff                    Customs Duties (%)
Import Restrictions                 Quota      DM      Unit         Customs   Special  Admin.   Total
Pastured Seed:
Pasture seed                    S0 mt       0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
Alfalfa seed                    200 mt      0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
Clover seed                     250 mt      0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
Sugar:
Raw cane sugar                40,000 mt   0.55       kg             5         10        1       16
Raw beet sugar                   5 mt       0.55     kg             5         10        1       16
Molasses                      25,000 mt   0.00       kg             4         10        1       15
Live Trees:
Grape seedlings               10,000,000   0.00    tree             0         10        1       11
Alcohol:
Desert wine                      5 mt       1.00     It            10         10        1       21
Formenting wine                  2 mt       0.65     It            10         10        1       21
Wine from dry grapes             2 mt       0.00     It            10         10        1       21
Fertilizer:
Urea                            50 mt       0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
Ammonium nitrate               1,000 mt    0.00      kg             0         10        1       11
Calcified ammonium nitrate     10,000 mt   0.00      kg             0         10        1       11
Urea + nitrate                  500 mt      0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
NPK fertilizer                  100 mt      0.00     kg             0         10        1       11
DAP & MAP                     45,000 mt   0.00       kg             0         10        1       11



Project Implementation Plan                   - 103 -                                      ANNEX A
Vm. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
FOR POLICY ANALYSIS UNIT
187.  Parliament's adoption of the Government's "Agricultural Policy Strategy" has paved the way for
widespread policy reform over the next 2-3 years. The MAF's capacity for policy analysis and policy
formation is rather limited however, consisting of a unit of two people which reports to the Deputy
Minister, Agriculture Policy. Neither of these people are well-trained in the techniques of policy
analysis.
188.  Recognizing this deficiency, the MAF has now received permission to increase this unit to 4-5
people and has the project support which would establish an effective Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit.
The proposed role, structure and organization of this Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit (APAU) are
outlined below, together with a description of the technical assistance requested from the Project. This
technical assistance has been designed to meet both the immediate needs of MAF to develop the policies
needed to implement the Agricultural Policy Strategy, and the more fundamental long-term need to
establish a strong national policy capacity for policy analysis.
A. ROLE FOR THE MAF POLICY UNIT
189.  Price and trade policy is viewed as the most appropriate focus of the Policy Unit. As the Croatian
economy becomes more open and market-oriented, a strong capacity for price and trade policy analysis
would become increasingly important in order to provide effective advice on:
-  the implications of policy change for Croatian farmers, processors and  consumers of
agricultural products.
- the form which current and future price and trade policies should take
190.  To fulfill this general mandate, MAF would establish a APAU which reports to the Deputy
Minister responsible for economic policy. Working together with the Minister and Deputy-Ministers of
Agriculture, and national and international experts, the specific responsibilities of the APAU would be
to:
- Provide advice on the price and trade policy measures required to implement the agricultural
strategy, and the timing of any policy changes.
- Assist in the preparation, negotiation and re-negotiation of trade agreements which effect the
agricultural sector.
- Monitor trends in domestic and international markets for those agricultural inputs and outputs
relevant to Croatian agriculture, and advise the MAF on the implications of these trends for
agricultural production and trade.
- Monitor trends in domestic agricultural production and agro-processing and advise the MAF
on the implications of these trends for agricultural production and trade.
-  Monitor trends in those macroeconomic conditions which influence production, processing,
prices and trade (inflation, exchange rates, interest rates, economic growth etc)
- Monitor proposed policy changes in other sectors of the economy and advise the MAF on the
implications of these policies for agricultural production and trade.



ANNEX A                                        - 104 -                       Project Implementation Plan
-  Maintain effective links with the agricultural research community and the Agricultural
Research Council.
B. STRUCTURE OF THE POLICY UNIT
191.  The unit would comprise 4-5 people working under a unit head, who would report to the Deputy
Minister responsible for economic policy. In addition to the head person, the unit would require three-
four specialists to work in the following subject areas:
- International Trade and Prices
- Farm Management and Farm Surveys
-  Domestic Marketing, Consumption and Agro-Processing
-  Information Acquisition, Management and Dissemination; and Administrative Support.
192.  In addition to their specific responsibilities, all the staff of the Policy Unit would need to be
computer literate, particularly with word-processing and the use of spread-sheets, and have the ability and
the desire to learn new approaches to economic analysis quickly.
C. JOB DESCRIPTIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS OF POLICY UNIT STAFF
Policy Unit Head
193.  The Policy Unit Head would have overall responsibility for using resources within the unit to
review the implications of current and future policies relevant to the agricultural sector, and advising the
Minister and Deputy-Minister on the form and timing of any policy changes under review. To fulfill this
role he or she would have the following responsibilities:
194.  Responsibilities:
-   Collaborate with the Minister and Deputy Minister in selecting the policy issues to be
examined and monitored by the Policy Unit
-  Allocate these studies and responsibilities to appropriate staff within the Policy Unit and
advise on the most appropriate methodologies and sources of data to use, and the time-frame
in which the work should be completed.
-  Where necessary, take responsibility for the final analysis and report (in the event that the
level of analysis required exceeds the skills of the staff allocated to the study).
- Contract required studies to domestic and international agencies as necessary.
-  Monitor trends and events within and outside the agricultural sector (both in and outside
Croatia) and report to the Minister and Deputy-Minister on their implications for agricultural
policy.
195.  Qualifications:
-  Post-graduate qualification in economics, agricultural economics or a related discipline; an
understanding of market-oriented economic policies and modern approaches to price and trade
policy analysis; experience in staff management.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 105 -                                        ANNEX A
-  A comprehensive understanding of the problems faced by the agricultural sector and the
nature and implications of the policies implicit in Croatia's agricultural strategy.
-  The willingness and ability to leam and apply new approaches to policy analysis.
International Trade and Price Specialist:
196.  Responsibilities:
- Monitor trends in prices, quantities and trading patterns in world markets for relevant
agricultural inputs and outputs, and advise the Unit Head on the implications of these trends.
-  Provide information as required on future world prices, based on projections published by
the World Bank, FAO, OECD and the EU.
-  Where required, use conventional partial equilibrium analysis techniques to determine the
economic and welfare implications of different forms and levels of price support.
-  Monitor trends in agricultural imports and exports and advise the Unit Head on the
implications of these trends.
-  Understand all current and pending bilateral and multilateral trade agreements which affect
the agricultural sector, and advise the Unit Head on factors relevant to the negotiation or re-
negotiation of these agreements
197.  Qualifications:
-  Graduate or post-graduate qualification in economics or agricultural economics, with
particular emphasis on price and trade policy.
-  A knowledge of partial-equilibrium analysis, and world trade in agricultural inputs and
outputs.
-  A knowledge of Croatia's current price policy, agricultural trade and the implications of
future membership of the WTO and the EU.
-  The willingness and ability to learn and apply new approaches to policy analysis.
Farm Management and Farm Survey Specialist:
198.  Responsibilities:
-  Monitor trends in farm output and input prices and their impact on farm production and
profitability, and advise the Unit Head on the implications of these trends.
-  Monitor trends in farm production and the allocation of land to different enterprises, and
advise the Unit Head on the implications of these trends.
-  In conjunction with other relevant groups, plan and coordinate farm surveys and collate the
information collected in order to provide a comprehensive data base on farm households and
enterprises.
-  Based on this survey data and other relevant information, prepare and regularly update
enterprise and full-farm budgets for all types of farmers in selected locations, as the basis for
reviewing on-farm opportunities and constraints.
-  Meet regularly with farmers and extension agents in order to keep informed of the
opportunities and constraints faced by farmers, and the impact of policy change; and advise
the Unit Head on types of information and analyses which would improve the ability of the
Policy Unit to examine these issues.



ANNEX A                                        -106 -                         Project Implementation Plan
199.  Qualifications:
-  Graduate or post-graduate qualification in agricultural economics or agricultural science, with
particular emphasis on farm management.
-  A knowledge of full and partial-budgeting techniques, and trends in domestic production and
prices; and farm survey design, implementation and analysis.
-  A knowledge of the problems faced by Croatia's farmers and the implications of the Croatian
agricultural strategy for their future.
-  The willingness and ability to learn and apply new approaches to policy analysis.
Domestic Marketing, Consumption and Agro-Processing Specialist:
200.  Responsibilities:
-  Monitor trends in domestic supply and demand for agricultural products and advise the Unit
Head on the implications of these trends.
-  Monitor trends in the level and efficiency of agro-processing, and the extent to which this is
influenced by price and trade policy and advise the Unit Head on the implications of these
trends.
-  Provide technical advice on the operation and application of the proposed Market Information
System.
-  Apply conventional partial-equilibrium techniques to analyze the impact of changes in price
and trade policy.
-  Meet regularly with producers associations, consumer groups and agro-processors to keep
informed of the opportunities and constraints which they face, and the impact of policy
change on marketing, processing and consumption; and advise the Unit Head on types of
information and analyses which would improve the ability of the Policy Unit to examine these
issues.
201.  Qualifications:
-  Graduate or post-graduate qualification in agricultural economics, economics, business
administration or food technology, with particular emphasis on marketing and price policy.
-  A knowledge of partial-equilibrium analysis, and the nature of domestic production and
consumption of agricultural inputs and outputs.
-  A knowledge of current issues relevant to domestic agricultural markets and processing, and
the implications of the agricultural strategy for these issues.
- The willingness and ability to learn and apply new approaches to policy analysis.
Information Acquisition, Management. Dissemination: and Administrative Support Specialist
202.  Responsibilities:
-  Establish an information center which provides the MAF with access to relevant data on
domestic and world prices; domestic and international production and trade; farm-level data
and market information.
-  Manage and coordinate the acquisition, use and dissemination of this information
-  Manage and coordinate the proposed Marketing Information System.
-  Provide administrative and technical support to the unit as required



Project Implementation Plan                    - 107 -                                     ANNEX A
These responsibilities could also be assumed by other staff within the Policy Unit.
203.  Qualifications:
-  Graduate qualification in agricultural economics or other related discipline.
-  Familiarity with the sources of data produced by relevant public and private sector
organizations.
- The willingness and ability to learn and apply new skills, should this prove necessary.
D. STAFF TRAINING
204.  Each of the 4-5 staff members would receive up to three months training outside Croatia, in their
field of specialization. In order to complete this training as early as possible, relevant training programs
would be identified as soon as the Project starts. The objective would be to train two specialists in the
first year of the Project and the remaining two-three staff members during the following eighteen months.
Potential training programs include those offered by the Economic Development Institute, World Bank
(USA); the Harvard Institute of International Development, Harvard University (USA); and Wye College,
England. In the course of normal work for the Policy Unit additional experience should also be sought
from attendance at policy seminars and visits to international organizations, within and outside Croatia.
205.  Staff would also receive on-the-job training from the Technical Assistance expert assigned to the
Project. This would include guidance on the choice and application of analytical techniques, supported
where necessary by the acquisition of suitable text-books (with project funds).
E. PHASED ESTABLISHMENT OF THE POLICY UNIT
206.  Initial priority should be given to recruitment of the specialists in International Trade and Prices,
and Marketing and Consumption. These specialists would provide the support needed to address the
immediate needs for trade and price policy issues and the probable investment in market infrastructure.
207.  To ensure that all aspects of agricultural policy are addressed by the APAU, any initial work on
farm management analysis and farm surveys would be contracted out to the Institute of Agriculture.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(i)    LONG-TERM POLICY ADVISER
208.  To support the establishment and initial operation of the Policy Unit a consultant would be
employed by the Project for a minimum of 18 months, extendable to 24 months at the discretion of the
project. The consultant would work as a Policy Adviser at the level of Specialist and report to the Deputy
Minister responsible for Economic Policy.
209.  While the consultant would be expected to provide immediate technical input into all relevant
areas of policy analysis, his or her overall responsibility would be to develop the capacity of Croatian
staff to fulfill the role and functions of the Policy Unit.



ANNEX A                                          - 108 -                        Project Implementation Plan
210.  Responsibilities:
- Provide guidance to the Deputy Minister and Policy Unit staff on the analysis and choice of
policy measures required to implement the Agricultural Strategy, including all aspects of
price, trade, marketing, farm management and credit policy; and the analysis of issues
relevant to negotiation of trade agreements which affect the agricultural sector.
- Assist staff training through the choice of external training programs, and on-going training
in the choice and application of analytical techniques (supported where necessary by the
acquisition and use of appropriate reference materials).
- Guide the establishment and initial operation of the Market Information System; and assist
with the design, implementation and analysis of the farm management baseline and
monitoring surveys.
- Provide guidance on the type of information which the Policy Unit should have or have
access to, and develop procedures for obtaining, managing and using this information.
- Provide guidance on techniques for monitoring trends in key indicators of agricultural
production, processing, prices and trade.
- Provide guidance on techniques for monitoring trends in key indicators of macro-economic
conditions.
- The consultant should not be directly involved in project management or implementation.
211.  Qualifications:
- Post-graduate qualification in Agricultural Economics or Economics (minimum Master's
Level) with at least five years of experience in agricultural sector policy and a specialization
in either price, trade or marketing issues.
- An understanding of the problems faced by economies in transition, preferably in eastern and
central Europe.
-  A sound grasp of the principles and techniques of economic analysis and the ability to apply
these skills to current problems and issues; and the ability to impart this knowledge to Policy
Unit Staff. The ability to speak and/or read Croatian would also be an advantage.
(ii)   SHORT-TERM PRICE and TRADE SPECIALIST
212.  As it will take some time to staff the Policy Unit, more immediate short-term technical assistance
is needed to begin the policy reforms specified in the Agricultural Strategy. Among the most pressing
reforms are trade and price policy measures related to pending membership of the World Trade
Organization, and the rationalization of import protection and price support. Rapid, well-conceived
policy initiatives in these areas would also help to sustain widespread initial support for the Agricultural
Strategy.



Project Implementation Plan                    - 109 -                                     ANNEX A
213.  To support the analysis, choice and design of these reforms, and the concurrent negotiation and
re-negotiation of major trade agreements, a consultant would be employed as soon as possible for a period
of three months. The consultant would work in the current Policy Department in the MAF and report to
the Deputy Minister responsible for Economic Policy. The MAF would provide the consultant with an
office, computer facilities, and full logistical support. To expedite provision of this technical assistance
it would be funded from the Japanese Grant.
214.  Responsibilities:
- To advise the Deputy Minister on all aspects of price and trade policy, with particular
emphasis on the impact of membership of the World Trade Organization, the rationalization
of import protection and price support, and the negotiation and re-negotiation of major trade
agreements.
- To prepare short written reports on all analyses undertaken in this regard for future reference
by Policy Unit Staff. These reports should describe the issue analyzed, the techniques
applied, and any assumptions used; followed by discussion of the recommendations made.
215.  Qualifications:
- Post-graduate qualification in Agricultural Economics or Economics (minimum Master's
Level) with at least five years of experience in the analysis of price and trade policy.
- A sound knowledge of: the World Trade Organization and the technical aspects of the
Uruguay Round Agreement; the trade implications of the Common Agricultural Policy of the
European Union; and an understanding of the process of negotiating trade agreements.
- An understanding of the problems faced by economies in transition, preferably in eastern and
central Europe.
-  A sound grasp of the principles and techniques of economic analysis and the ability to apply
these skills to the analysis of price and trade policy.
216.  The following gives the consultant requirements (including detailed description of the assignment,
qualification required, and expected output) for the three activities under this assignment: (i) short term
price and trade specialist; (ii) market information system development; and (iii) farm surveys.
F. AGRICULTURE PRICE AND TRADE SPECLILIST
217.  Background. As the Croatian economy becomes more open and market-oriented, price and trade
policy will become increasingly important. A strong capacity for price and trade analysis is thus essential
in order to provide effective advice on:
- the implications of policy change for Croatian farmers and processors and Croatian consumers
of agricultural products; and
- the form which current and future price and trade policies should take.



ANNEX A                                          -110 -                         Project Implementation Plan
218.  To fulfill this general mandate the MAF proposes to establish an Agriculture Policy Unit which
reports to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture responsible for economic policy. Working together with
the Minister and Deputy-Ministers of Agriculture, and national and experts, the specific responsibilities
of this Policy Unit would be to:
- Provide advice on the price and trade policy measures required to implement MAF's
Agricultural Policy Strategy, and the timing of any policy changes.
- Assist in the preparation, negotiation and re-negotiation of trade agreement effect the
agricultural sector.
- Monitor trends in domestic and international markets for those agriculture inputs and outputs
relevant to Croatian agriculture, and advise the MAF on the implication of these trends for
agricultural production and trade.
- Monitor trends in domestic agricultural production and agro-processing and advice the MAF
on the implications of these trends for agricultural production.
- Monitor trends in macroeconomic conditions which influence production, processing, prices
and trade (inflation, exchange rates, interest rates, economic growth);
- Monitor proposed policy changes in other sectors of the economy and advise MAF on the
implications of these policies for agricultural production and trade.
219.    Assignent. As it will take some time to staff and equip the Policy Unit, more immediate
technical assistance is needed to begin the policy reforms specified in MAF's Agriculture Policy Strategy.
Among the most pressing of these reforms are those associated with trade and price policy as a result of
pending membership of the World Trade Organization and the proposed rationalization of import
protection and price support. Rapid, well-conceived policy initiatives in these areas will also do much to
sustain the widespread initial support for the Agriculture Policy Strategy and to assist in the restructuring
of MAF's Agriculture Policy Unit.
220.  To support the analysis, choice and design of these reforms, and the concurrent negotiation and
re-negotiation of major trade agreements, a consultant will be employed as soon as possible for a period
of about two months to provide expertise on a short-term basis. The consultant will work in the current
Policy Department in the MAF and report to the Deputy Minister responsible for Economic Policy. The
MAF will provide the consultant with an office, computer facilities, and full logistical support.
221.  Responsibilities and Output. (i) To advise the Deputy Minister on all aspects of price and trade
policy, with emphasis on the impact of membership to the World Trade Organization, rationalization of
import protection and price support, and the negotiation of major trade agreements. (ii) To prepare short
written reports on all analyses undertaken in this regard for future reference by Policy Unit Staff. These
reports should describe the issue analyzed, the methodology applied, and any assumptions used; followed
by discussion of the recommendation
222.  Qualifications: Post-graduate qualification in Agricultural Economics or Economics (minimum
Master Level) with at least ten years of relevant work experience in the analysis of price and trade. A
sound knowledge of the World Trade Organization and the technical aspects of the Uruguay Round
Agreement; the trade implications of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union; and an
understanding of the process of negotiating trade agreements. An understanding of the problems faced
by economies in transition, preferably in eastern and central Europe. A sound grasp of the principles and
techniques of economic analysis and the ability to apply these skills to the analysis of price and trade
policy and to communicate the associated methodology and results.



Project hIplementation Plan                    - 111 -                                     ANNEX A
G. MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM
223.  Background. Full access to information is an essential pre-requisite for an efficient, agricultural
sector, especially if family farms are to benefit from the opportunities created by well-functioning
markets. With this in mind, a market information system (MIS) is to be established within MAF's APAU.
The objective is to collect information at approximately ten produce markets throughout Croatia on a
daily basis which would be transmitted to Zagreb by computer for collation and then disseminated through
daily radio broadcasts.
224.  A series of short-term technical inputs would be required to establish the MIS and to review its
initial performance. These inputs would be provided by a Market Information Specialist and a
Communications Specialist who would be employed for 7 weeks and 2 weeks respectively over a total
elapsed time of approximately 5 months. Their respective activities and responsibilities are specified
below.
225.   The technical assistance would involve an initial visit by the market information specialist and
the communication specialists to design the system, arrange the radio broadcasts, and define the technical
specifications of the equipment. Once the hardware and software have been obtained during early project
implementation, the communications specialist would return to install it and check that it was operating
correctly. The market information specialist would then train the enumerators responsible for data
collection and MAF's market policy analyst responsible for data collation, and ensure that they were able
to operate the equipment. Three months after the system has been in operation the market information
specialist would return for a further two weeks to review the system and assess the need and nature of
any improvements.
226.  Detailed Assignments for the Market Information Specialist and the Communications Specialist
A. System Design
- Choose market sites and commodities (types and quality)
-  Determine which information to collect (prices, quantities, quality, origin of produce etc)
- Design and produce questionnaires or survey instruments
- Determine technical specifications of hard and software in collaboration with MAF's
Information officer
- Develop methodology for data collection
-  Establish a format for collating and summarizing the data at the Policy Unit
- Initiate recruitment of enumerators (desired qualifications, amount of work required etc)
- Determine optimal broadcasting procedures
Time Required: 1 month for the Market Information Specialist, two weeks for the
Communications Specialist.
Output:       The output of the design stage would consist in a systematic operational
handbook, discussed and agreed upon with MAF covering all procedural aspects
of the market information system, and including technical specifications of the
hard and software to be procured under the project.



ANNEX A                                        - 112 -                       Project Implementation Plan
B. Training of Enumerators and of MAF's Market Analyst
-     Train enumerators in data collection, data entry and data transmission
-     Train market analyst in data collation, analysis and dissemination of information to radio
stations.
Time Required: 2 weeks for the Market Information Specialist
Output:       Training Curricula and Course
C. Review system after three months of operation
-     Review response to mnarket information provided and perceptions of its usefulness.
-     Recommend changes to the type of information collected, and the manner of collection
and dissemination as considered appropriate.
Time Required: 1 week for the Market Information Specialist
Output:       Evaluation Report
227.  Qualifications:
Market Information Specialist: Degree in (agriculture) marketing (minimnum Master level) or
related fields and at least ten years relevant experience in market intelligence.
Communications Specialist: technical expert in data transfer and processing technology with at
least ten years relevant experience.
H. FARM MONITORING SURVEYS
228.  Background. Prior to independence the collection of agricultural statistics was oriented towards
production on ex-social sector farms. The consequent lack of information on private farms has become
a serious constraint to policy analysis, especially following the adoption of a new Agricultural Policy
Strategy which emphasizes the role of family farms. It is difficult to respond effectively to the needs of
Croatia's small-scale family farms when so little is known about the constraints they face and implications
of policy change for their well-being. To address this problem the project would initiate and fund two
related surveys, each of which covers both full and part-time small-scale family farms. The first would
be a comprehensive baseline survey to provide up-to-date information on factors such demographic
characteristics, the farm resource base, cropping patterns and livestock holdings, levels of production and
marketed surplus, the level and composition of farm income and expenditure, and the contribution of
non-farm income to total household income. It would also include behavioral and attitudinal variables.
A smaller, second survey would then be initiated as the basis for an annual monitoring of the status of
and the changes on family farms. This second survey would be of a size (in terms of both numbers and
data collected) which allows rapid data collection, processing and analysis. The two surveys would be
designed together to ensure that they complement each other as much as possible.
229.  Technical assistance for these surveys would consist of an agriculture statistician and a farm
management survey specialist. Particular emphasis would be placed on involving members of the MAF,



Project Implementation Plan                      - 113 -                                       ANNEX A
the Institute of Agriculture Economics and family farmer representatives in the initial design of the two
surveys. To ensure that the information generated informs policy decisions in a timely manner, careful
attention should also be given to procedures which allow quick and effective data processing. Such
timeliness will be especially important for the smaller annual monitoring surveys.
230.  The duties and responsibilities of the respective consultants are outlined below. An input of two
weeks is envisaged for the agricultural statistician and six weeks for the farm management survey
specialist. The MAF would provide office space and logistical support to each consultant.
231.  Output of the overall assignment: The output of the study would consist in a systematic
operational handbook, discussed and agreed upon with MAF covering all procedural aspects of the
baseline and the on-farm monitoring system.
232.  Agriculture Statistician
Responsibilities:
- together with the Croatian Bureau of Statistics, review the national sampling framework and
develop recommendations on optimal sampling procedures and sample sizes for both the baseline
survey and the annual monitoring surveys.
- review the current definitions of full and part-time farmers used in the national sampling
framework. Decide on their relevance to the two surveys and recommend alternative definitions
where appropriate, plus measures to modify the sampling framework accordingly.
- for the monitoring survey review the implications of taking a new sample each year or
retaining a fixed sample and re-weighing it each year to reflect changes in the underlying
population. Describe the sampling techniques to be used in the event that a new sample is taken
each year, and the basis for re-weighing the sample in the event that a fixed sample is considered
optimal.
- prepare a report of not more than twenty pages which describes the national sampling
framework, its suitability as the basis for the proposed farm surveys, the definitions of full a part-
time farmers, and the sampling procedures and sample sizes considered optimal for each of the
two surveys. Include the description and discussion of the alternative sampling strategies for the
monitoring surveys.
Time allowed for the study and report writing, two weeks.
Qualifications: Advanced degree in agricultural statistics or statistics (minimum Masters Level),
with at least ten years experience in the statistical design of both large and small-scale surveys
of small farmers.



ANNEX A                                           - 114 -                         Project Implementation Plan
233.  Farm Management Survev Specialist
Responsibilities:
- together with staff of the MAD, Institute of Agriculture Economies and small-farner
representatives, determine the principle issues which information from the Baseline and
Monitoring surveys should seek to illuminate.
- based on these issues, develop and test the questionnaires for both surveys, to collect both
quantitative and qualitative infornation (attitudes, perceptions of constraints and opportunities
etc). Ensure that the two sets of questionnaires generate data which are consistent and can be
used in a complementary manner.
- for the monitoring survey questionnaire, ensure that one element of the data set is quantitative
and constant, to provide a consistent source of time-series data; and another more flexible module
collects on issues of current importance. (for example the use of a permanent module on factors
such as resource use, cropping patterns and livestock holdings, production levels and marketed
surplus; plus a qualitative module which varies from year to year in response to particular issues
of importance).
- determine the most appropriate definitions of full and part-time farmers based on the report by
the agricultural statistician and discussions with Croatian collaborators.
- based on the sampling strategies recommended by the agricultural statistician, develop a cost-
effective strategy for sample selection for each survey, which facilitates accurate, efficient
collection. include consideration of interviews, mail surveys, and the payment of farmers to keep
their won records and complete their own questionnaires.
- develop data entry and verification routines in association with questionnaire design, to sure that
the data are entered and checked in a timely manner; and make realistic estimates of the time and
resources required to transform the raw data into a form useful for analysis.
- advise on the most appropriate basis for analysis of the data from each survey, and prepare an
outline report (including dummy tables), to guide final analysis and ensure that the results
illuminate the issues originally defined.
- for each survey prepare a realistic timetable for survey implantation and data processing and
analysis.
- prepare a report which summarizes the issues to be addressed by the two surveys, the sampling
strategies and data collection and processing techniques to be used, the implementation timetables,
and the outline of the analysis. Time required to complete the study, including report writing: six
weeks.
Qualifications: (i) Advanced degree in agriculture economics (minimum Master level) with a
specialization in farm management, and (ii) at least ten years experience in the design,
implementation and analysis of farm management surveys. (iii) An understanding of the problems
faced by economies in transition, preferably in eastern and central Europe.



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX B
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING TABLES
A. Summarv Tables
Project Cost Summary by Component ...............................  116
Project Components by Year ................................ 117
Project Expenditure Accounts by Component ............................  118
B. Detailed Cost Tables
2.1 Agriculture Extension . ............................... 119
2.2 Agriculture Research ...........              ....................  120
2.3 Animal Health ...............................  121
2.4 Pasture and Fodder Development  ...............................  122
2.5 Seed Industry Development ................................ 123
2.6 Policy Analysis Support ................................ 124
2.7 Project Management ...........                ....................  125



Republic of Croatia
Farmers Support Services Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(000 Kuna)                                      (000 US$)
%     %Total                                   %     %Total
Foreign   Base                                 Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs    Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Agriculure Extension             16,642    14,737    31,379       47       24     3,328     2,947    6,276       47       24
2. Agriculture Research             12,274    22,789    35,063        65      26     2,455     4,558     7,013       65      26
3. Animal Healh                      8,680    18,057    26,737        68      20     1,736     3,611     5,347       68      20
4. Pasture and Forage Development    4,369     6,009     10,378       58       8       874     1,202    2,076        58       8
5. Seed Industry Development         9,833     7,167     17,000       42      13     1,967     1,433     3,400       42      13
6. Policy Analysis Support           4,687     5,779     10,465       55       8       937     1,156     2,093       55       8
7. Project Management                1,030      579      1,609        36       1       206      116       322       36        1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                    57,514    75,116    132,630      57      100    11,503    15,023    26,526      57      100
Physical Contingencies               4,644     6,764    11,407        59       9       929     1,353    2,281        59       9
Price Contingencies                  3,184     3,526     6,710        53       5       568      624      1,192       52       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                    65,341    85,405    150,747      57      114    13,000    17,000    30,000      57      113
0
b0



Project Implementation Plan                              - 117 -                                               ANNEX B
Republic of Croatia
Farmers Support Services Project
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(000 US$)
Totals Including Contingencles
1996     1997    1998    1999    Total
A. Agriculture Extension
Investment Costs                             2,247    1,169     931     663     5,010
Recurrent Costs                                368     578      593     607     2,148
Subtotal Agriculture Extension                 2,615    1,747    1,524    1,270    7,156
B. Agriculture Research
Investment Costs                             1.970    1,822    1,810    1,668   7,269
Recurrent Costs                                 94     156      207     307       764
Subtotal Agriculture Research                  2,064    1,978    2,017    1,975   8,033
C. Animal Health
Investment Costs                             1,865    1,793     837      49     4,545
Recurrent Costs                                153     392      490     502     1,538
Subtotal Animal Health                         2,019    2,186    1,327    551     6,082
D. Pasture and Forage Development
Investment Costs                             1,191     789       76      27     2,083
Recurrent Costs                                 46      66       67      69       248
Subtotal Pasture and Forage Development        1,237     855      144      96    2,331
E. Seed Industry Development
Investment Costs                             1,223     484        9        -    1,716
Recurrent Costs                                403     524      553     567     2,046
Subtotal Seed Industry Development             1,625    1,008     562     567      3,762
F. Policy Analysis Support
Investment Costs                               982     574      176      49     1,781
Recurrent Costs                                 94     134      137     140       506
Subtotal Policy Analysis Support               1,076     708      313      190    2,286
G. Project Management
Investment Costs                                79      42        -        -      121
Recurrent Costs                                 49      58       60      61       228
Subtotal Project Management                      128     100       60      61       349
Total PROJECT COSTS                            10,764    8,580    5,945    4,710    30,000
Total Investment Costs                       9,556    6,672    3,839    2,456    22,524
Total Recurrent Costs                        1,208    1,908    2,106    2,254   7,476



z
Republic of Croatia                                                                  tt
Farmers Support Services Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including ContIngencIes
(000 USS)
Pasture and    Seed      Policy
Agriculture  Agriculture  Animal    Forage    Industry   Analysis   Project
Extension    Research   Health  Development Development Support Management  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                -           -        -         904          56                    -      960
B. Vehides                                 559           96     236          48          197        -         45    1,181
C. Equipment
1. Laboratory Equipment                   40            -   2,873         344          270        -           -    3,527
2. Computing Equipment                   410          463     230            -          45      303          18    1,467
3. Agricufture Equipment                    -          28        -         344         969         -          -    1,341
4. Office Equipment                       414         116      23            -          22       38          17      631
5. Audio-visual Equipment                  90           -        -           -           -         -          -       90
Subtotal Equipment                          954         607   3,126          689       1,305      341         35    7,056
D. Training
1. Local Training                        911          374     502          69           23        9           -    1,888
2. Overseas Training                      273         484     453          147          43      148           -    1,548
Subtotal Training                         1,184         859     955          216          66      156           -    3,436
E. Technical Assistance
Nat'l and Intemat'l T.A.                 411         249      205         156          92       684         42    1,838
F. Extension Privatization                1,252           -        -           -           -         -          -    1,252
G. Contract Studies                           -           -        -         70            -      600           -      670
H. Research Fund                              -       5,194        -           -           -         -          -    5,194
I. Publications                            650          265      22            -           -        -           -      937
Total Investment Costs                      5,010       7,269   4,545        2,083        1,716    1,781        121   22,524
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                   -         411      101           -        1,125     250         155    2,042
B. Travel Allowances                          -         124        -           -           -       62           -      186
D. Vehles O & M                           1,081          70     133          32           61         -         31    1,409
E. Equipment O&M                              -           -     897          123           -         -          -    1,020
F. Office Rental                              -          29        -           -           -         -          -       29
G.Office O&M                                555         129        -           -         860      106          43    1,694
H. Trials and Demonstations                 510           -    407            92           -         -          -    1,010                 .
I. Monitoring                                 -           -       -            -                   87                   87
Total Recurrent Costs                       2,146         764   1,538          248       2.046      506         228    7,476
Total PROJECT COSTS                          7,156       8,033   6,082        2,331       3,762    2,286        349   30.000
Taxes                                     1,288         949     735          258        1,126     220         123    4,697
Foreign Exchange                          3,336       5,234   4,101        1,345       1,611     1,246        127   17,000
P



Project Implementation Plan                                                                     - 119 -                                                                                    ANNEX B
Rspubee Of CMdis
Poses Support Settas Prjot
Table 2.1. Agiotultm Mtnicn
DiUled Cools
(Omo U"S(
Cusnlms                            Unit           Total. imoludilg Conflnges
Unit         16Me       167        is         1is"        Total     Coit    11    1r           1608     1        Total
1. Investmont Const
A. Public Enonlion Sorvices
1. Vehicles
aHq.                                                 car               2                      -                      2      20       4S                  -                48
b Zupanvisl clr                                                       42                 -          -               42      11      515                                  SIB
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                     559                                7
2. Equipmenl
aOf"uttl                                             oet              22           -          -                     22      15      288                           -      3et
b. Compules kc                                       unt              46         21                       -         67       S      256      120                         576
c Audla-visrsl Id                                    set              23           -                     -          23     3.5        0                           - 
d Zupanija feid Eqp-nameti                           unit             21                                  -         21       2       47                                   47
Subtotil Equlpmenl                                                                                                                    780      12          -        -        0
3. Training
a Ovenrs Sludy Tour /I                           pesnon weeks         12                                            12       3       40                                   40
b. Reodenlation /                               poion monihs          so          40                               120     0.6       45       23                          67
c In-Servicilt                                   person "teeka       120         10         Iso        160          60o    0.5       67      103      105       108      383
d. Pon1graduate Fellowships A                   pnron monnths          6          12          6                     24       7       47       96       46         -      192
e. St.fSubjecSpecilcTrainirg                     pernonueks           So  1e       O        180        I60         800    .05        33      l03      105      100       340
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                     232      324      260      215    1.032
4. Technical Assistance
a- Extensior Specialist Ik                      person months          6           3          2          -           11     20      122       62       43                225
b Special Skills Trainers t                     person monihs          2           1          -          -           3      20       41       21                         6I
c LocalSpeciali"nl`m                            penormonths            3           3          3           -          9       2        6        6        6                 1
Subtotal Tochnicut Assistance                                                                                                         16        Be       46               306
S. Cantttct SsrvIc"s
a. Mas Media Communicallons Packages /n               atch              5         10         10           -         20      15 i      4      171      176         -     430
b. Managemenl Handbook s                          lump sum                                                                           22         -                         22
Subtotal Contract Services                                                                                                            105       171      175               453
S. Zupanija ReFeence Libraries/p                       Each              21         21         21         21          64   1.175       70        36       37       3(      181
Subintal Public Otnsnl. Sarvicon..                                                                                                     1.695      741      521      254    3.410
B. Prn.at Eatonlan Setrices
1. Pdvals Consultnt Support Iq
a Consulanl Income Support Prtgmm Ir              peron year           8          12         12         12          45      22      221      301      309      317    1.147
b Equipment Supporti/s                              each               9          12         12         12          45       2       20       27       28       20       104
Subtotal Privat Consultant Support                                                                                                    241      329       337      34T   1252
2 Prvale Conmulant Traring A                       person ceoks          20         40    S     5         70         155   0.5         11       23        32       42      106
Subtotu Prinvate EaNslon Services                                                                                                       252      382       369      387    1,360
C. Dairy Famner Association Pilot Schema lu
1. Techncal Assistance /                          peron months            2          1          1          1           5      20       41       21       21        22      104
2. Study TourA'                                    penson weeks           6          a                                12       3       20       21         -                41
3. Penmtion of Herd Recording AssocItions
Development oa Promolional Malerias 1a            lump sumn                                                                          17         -       ,         -       17
Prmlion of Herd Reconding Associalions /y          lmp sum             10         20         35           -         6S    005         1         1        2        -        4
Subloa rotmotion of Herd Recnnding Asuclations                                                                                         17         I        2                20
4. Milk T sling end Recording Equipment
Herd Recording EqopmenIlz                           set               10         10         15                     35       I       11       I        18         -       40
b Zuponlia Herd Test Recordrnglo                     oil                1          2          -           -          3      10       11       23         -        -       34
Subtotal Ilk Tisting and Recording Equlpment                                                                                           22       34        1         -       7
Subtntat Dairy FPnvr Assocration Pilot Sceme                                                                                           1W         77       41       22      239
Toal Innashnont Cosls                                                                                                                    2.247    1,1689     931      663    6,010
I. Ricumnt Conto lb
A. Ofi1c. 0 & MI
1. Hq.                                               kimp sum                                                                          17       17        15       1s      69
2 Zupayila/Ic                                          each              21         21         21         21          64       5      117       120      123      126      486
SubtotlOth1c. DAM                                                                                                                       134       137      140      144      053
6. VehIcles 0 4 M Idd
1. Hq.                                               000km'            20          60         6o         so         200    024         5       16        17       17       56
2. Zupanil le                                        000 km'            420        840        640        640        2.940    024      112      230       236      242      n20
3. Pnvale Vehicle Allowance If                       000km.             105        210        210        210         735    024        28       56        59       60      205
Suobtal Vohiclso D L M                                                                                                                  146      304       312      320    1.081
C. Demtnustror,n and Field Days
1 Operatingcosl log                                   demo.            400          00        60o        Om        2,200     0.2       86      137      140      144      610
Total Recurrent Cess                                                                                                                      366       578      603      607    2,146
Total                                                                                                                                    2.616    1.747    15.24    1.270    7.152
ba Each of the 21 Zupanija cenlres rad be supplied wnh hVO vshicles.
lb One sel lt the HQ. Would include ofree fumuam. photocopier snd hoclimib.
Ic Four uns in he HO otice and three each per Zuprija.
d Two avis to be supphled to Ihe HO unt. Equipment would Include a vdeo carmera. video plaer and TV; ouwstoad and side prectodn: nreen. ahre board snd tSp chert alrnd laud hailr ard disply penis.
In Including microscope (pesl idenfillcation). Ispe measum. sclla. tdsals equpimnerl. etc.
V For natonsl eunersion manager. Includes airftor per diem and locltImol saeino.
g All e.ension staff wood undeMske a one month  rtiontation progamtm.
YiAnnualn.semcentrmng of approamalely 10daysaduraion cnnrtg esension methodology ard pwtntl technicalcsubjects.
U For HO noeoslon mnangement staff. Traning comses oa up lo 3 menlh duration. Includes aairant per diem end poue toes.
I Tralinng in massmedia comunueicallono. eatennin manoeemsit marikting. cannuiceton  rchnobegy. computets, eic.
\k To deelop and ndione eAension plarming and wnontongsystams.
Y For speciahzed skkl deuelopmenr amongst esienslon staff, audb-vbludl cnmmruncations: bfni r aoc4ltin orgngn n; tomne butussa oaupng ; hbntolotn mapnagment Irbh  ld dentttlion managenL
Im To suappo coffputing. business analysi, comtmunicatlons and management stale ofZupona sistduar  sisif.
hi Mbss-medba comunanicanor psckeges lo be produced conmeedsly to MAF spscld  blee. Cos to enlltould id US6l5,000 per peduge.
\q To ucldde detailed agrk-utunal pdcr schedules and fam eaterpdss budgint sacs sggn-ecolegical zonte
%p This programme poedias for an inibt rlefmnce Way and ler annual sb Icaipt to nledad form pnoductiloe urmial.
q Suppoat package Includes raIning. prtil salary suppot over yeam and an hIntl eunntd powtunme  gret for saeolqn. AbOui SS coullanrs aoul prov   advion to pmdtc   and/or peclasd ftans nidw g pocW e.
V Estalsd grossimcome of USSt2.ODO peryew. Saiety npptaf 60% inyea 1,. 80%  yeear2, 35% in yer3 nd 25%in yer4E4f Ede4 easonemtsribtelion.
is Grant In btaners associalkun Io purchase supproleg rInilngkdinonstrslen enqtpuL
It Two weks trainirg In th fint year snd one week per yer thereafter. .oil  wth pul senric enadsebnraI
I To be knpbmenred by he unstoute Ior Animit GeWdon.
w InndLdss support Io organization of tannr based herd rscerdlrg sacacltlons end mated deta m4ntgetnsnt pntgran.
tw Padicqaprs Ino hIdud Ins luto  forAnimet Setdiro managers, Geld superdos and selected tannin bolers. Touns not St ead one wesk
to eord recordig handbnoks.
ly Goup nunter curnniasae. Coss cae  cal travel sand  nmmicaiotn expenses.
Iz Wigh scalen mak minsts and samping equipment.
va Sel includes 3 laptop and I diktop unts plea 1 plater.
lot All reonrrzd Cnhto rem irmenlteJ
W Incduds oafice mntal in some Zuperoa.
ldd Wsge alo  nee booed on 10.000 lknrehickeJyr h Yer I and 20,000 kmr lyrheater (30.000 knlyr forHQO  hld4) Km tose tO 30% ofpreeg ktil pr       ftor pihoee cats and 20% torpouNds owned
uoe FPieen Ithosand kltmests per vehkie per yosr.
1fxtcEenaIln workws use pdits vehides torwork purpos.
igg Up to 6 triat/demeonslaiOns pit Zupatoji oelnion otelikr per poor.



ANNEX B                                                                             - 120 -                                              Project Implementation Plan
Ropubi of Croae
FPrsa  Support Services Projet
Tab  2.2. Agdcut  Rerach
Detailed Cob
(M00 US$1
2uarUm                       Uniff   Toale lciruCorraaae
Unit       1o"       1CO7 1333             1333     ToA      o   1333  133    13W    1336  ToUt
I. Investnent Costs
A. Agricultural Reserch Council
1. VehIles4
a. ARC                                                       unit             2                               -      2    20    45       -       -     -   4
2 Equipment
* ARC Offko Equipment                                        set              I                    -          -      1   20    22       -              -   22
b- Computer                                                  unit             3         -                            3     5    17                     -    17
c ARC Computer NetworkIng /a                              lump Sawn                                                              22                         22
d. Zagrb Untinrity Informalbon LAN ib                     kamp sum                                                              376             ,      -  376
Subtotal Equipnent                                                                                                                436                        431
3. Tranirng
a. VisngSclentistProgramme/c                             person wek          10        15         15                40     4    45    6t       70      -   183
b. Researrh Staff Orienttion Tranilng Id                person months        10        30         30                70   1.t   20    62        63         s14
c. Appied Research Management/a                             course            2         1                            3   7.5   17       9                   25
d. Staff ExchangeR                                      pereonrmonths        10        20         20         10     60   6.5   72   148    152    76   461
a. Research Maragement Study Tours/g                     perec weeks         10                    -                10     3    33       -                  33
t Roesarch Reporting (seminars) ih                        paron day         150       150        150        150    t00  0.03      5     5       5     6    21
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                 1922t2    291    63
4. Technical Assiatance
a. Research Management Specialt A                       peson months          2         2          1          -      5    20    41    42       21          103
b. AppUid Resoarch Management Trainingii                 pason months         2         1                     -      3    20    41    21         -     -   61
c. SubjectMatterSpecidatstak                            personnmonths         1         1          1          1      4    20    20    21       21    22    U4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                     101    6       43    22   249
5. Reference Habrial
a. Books end Subsciptions A                                lump sum                                                              a9    57       i9   60   266
6. Research Finance Commission                              Lump rum                                                               22     5        -     -    2ti
Subtotal Agricuitursl Research Council                                                                                              367   43a    392   165 1.8=
B. National AgdcuttuNal Research Fund am                       lump sum                                                           10t6S 1.337   1.370 1,404 5.184
C. Zonal RessrchlExtnaion CoordinatIon Unit
1 Computlrs                                                    unit                       2          2          4      8     5           11      12    24    47
2. ZRECU Ofce Equlpment                                         set             -         1          1          2      4    20           23      23    46    94
3. ZRECUVehides                                                unit                        1        1          2      4    11           13      13    26    62
Subtotal Zonal ResearchlExtenalon Coordination Unit                                                                                        47      4 3 93  193
Totai investment Costs                                                                                                               1,970 1i.22   1i610 1.866 7,2t
tI. Recurenl Costs
A. Salaries
1. ARC
Chairman's Honorarium                                    parson months       12        12         12         12     48   0.6      7     7       a      a    30
Diretor                                                  personmonths         9        12         12         12     45   1.5   14    19        19    20    71
AdmiristeUvoeAsbsta nt                                   pre onmontho         9        12         12         12     45   0.6      5     7       a      8    28
ARC Board Member Honorria In                              parsn deya        240       240        240        240    360   0.1   24    25        26    26   101
Subtotal ARC                                                                                                                       51   596  0 6 1   231
Z ZRECU
Ecornomist                                               personmorths                  12         24         48     54      1          12      2S    52    90
Resoarch/ExtensionCoordinstor                            penonmonths          -        12         24         48     84      1     -   12       26    S2    90
Subtotal ZRECU                                                                                                                           25 2    51   10   181
Subtotal Salaries                                                                                                                    51     3     11i 116    411
B. Travel Allowancees
1. ARC Staff                                                pern days         120       210        210        210    750  0.05      7    12      12    13    44
2. ARC Board Membes                                         paron days        240       240        240        240   9O0  0.05    13    14        14    14    56
3. ZRECU Saff                                               psrson days         -        60        120        240    420  0.06    _       3       7    14    25
Subtotal Travel Allowances                                                                                                           20    29      33  41    124
C. Offle Operation and Meinsenance
1. Ofic Rental /o                                              m2              35        35         35         35    140  0.18      7     7       7     a    29
2. ARC Operating Costs                                      lump sum                                                               11    11      12    12    46
3. OtherZRECU                                                 uimp sum                                                                   t       23    46    83
Subtotal Oflice Operation and Malntenance                                                                                           16    30      42    S8  115
0. Vehicles Operation and Maintenance/p
1. ARC                                                       000km.            20        30         30         30    110  0.24      6     a       a          9 31
2 ZRECU                                                      000km.                      20         40         s0    140  0.24    5- 11    23    40
Subtotal Vehicles OpantIon and MaIntnance                                                                                             S    14      20    32    70
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                                                  94   15      207   S07   764
Total                                                                                                                                2,064 1,t78   2,017  1.975 6,033
to LAN for ARC seoterbdab with MAF, MOS and Uninnity.
tl Includes completon of LAN nd preparaton of national agricutxtri dat ban for access through LAN
c Vbiis by selected Witmaenion  spededsts. Trv arnd par daem ea*nsa only.
%d Training in the egricuka In the market economy, participative constrint anels, eta Tratring by MAF extension trainers and InIed to proec fninned reasrh program.
%s Three cours, each of ta weeks durtin nd haIn 15 paipants, would eniphesbe on-farm reeewch managenent. Oe conse woLsdb for MOS eila.
V Costs Inciude at trv ind ov s par dem. Stff x       to be d to the ving scit progrn
tg For ARC Charman and sff togther with MAF and MOB  pant     . Css hetads pr dt  , host countty bnvex nd air te
Vi For tnson staff. reports on renut of completed projedt Ma nood ressmh prognm.
1i To develop resch managemnt proce    at ARC.
V Up to 4 sdantito consultants (staIa, agronorny. ani    se   A enonombo) woutd ri 2 eounea  nctarny. Tnhng fIred to new project finned thut hto pptbd reseaoc
Vk Accss to opedist advios t   goadres a   t  tdenld renearch priortes.
i Woutd Include Year I aotabNchmwt of en on4tIe bifoilon servicet Zagreb University AWicutural Facatty try.
tmBaoudonstt cotofrovsiona4-yarrearchpogramofjt94mawdVpnnwohopfrsuto. De                             resthpitonwotdba projtactity. Excta e              rAb e
nIS mwmbrs ClldaysehonourartWNmun
%o Estlmated 0 75 1(unam2 per month.
\pEstimated10.000kmehkeinttyear nd1S,000k4threafte.cmter t        rte eS  30%ipvaPng            ric



Project Implementation Plan                                                            121 -                                                                       ANNEX B
RepubliC of Croatia
Farmer. Support Services Project
Table 2.23. Animal Health
Detailed Coats
(000 0011
Totals Includin.g
Oc.nwtime               unit                ec.  os
I.Innetemot cosat
A. HAP Veterinary Depart.ent
1. Vehce
Vtrnry Epidemiology Program  leedan)                  u.it             1      1      -      -      2    20      20     20       -      -     40    22    23        -      -
2. ComputereupetI
IBorder Station.                                         unit            10      -      -      -     10      5     sco         -               so5   56        -      - 
b. lupanije MAF Centres lb                                 unit           10     11       -      -     21      5     so...I ......5    .-......  2.1. ....   ....I        ...
Subtotal1 Computer Equipmen t                                                                                          leo      55             -   10      Ill    63       -      - 1
3. Technical Aeeac
a.  Vet ,Epi demiologist                              person soothe        2       1                    3     20     40     20                   co 6   41    21        -      -
b. Ve t. Epidemiology - Data Sane Mna..gement   pern   son...tha            1      1      -      -      2    20      20     20       -      -    40    20    21         -     -
C. Whole Herd Health Adv.-                            peruon soothe         -     2       -      -      2    20       -    40       -       -    40       -    42       -     -
d. Computer Prograrmer Id                             pera.. soothe        2      1                     3     20 ..01 .......f .6..u...~          0     4l    21-.--  -.
Sub total Technical Assiatacce                                                                                         100    100                   2  00   101   104      -      -   21
4. Training I.
a.Ore...as Training
Vaterinany Epidemiology /f                            course            2      1      -      -      3    20      40     20       -            60    45    23        -      -
Veterinary Public Health Adoiniutration /g perso  mon...ths             3      6      3      -    12       7     21     42      21      -      4    23    4B       21 
Epi.ootic Disease Control /h                      person month.         6             6      -    1        7    4.....2.2 __1 ..2  . 422S....4l    48.d  4....... ..             4
subtotal Ov..e... .Staining                                                                                        102    104      63      -   270   115   119         15     -   I
b. Do-Country Ii
T.ohnicio                                         perso  months        40     35    20       - 100         2     00     70      40      - 200   100         s0     47      - 21
Inalp'ectors:                                     peerson mnthe         -      0  5          -    10       2       -    10      10      -    20       -    11      12      - 
Prin"te Vet                                       perso  earths        20     11    10       -     so      2    4....d0 ...,..l....20        lop... ...  ....A   .342   3     --II
Subtotal InCountry                                                                                               ..1.20.....AO  .....  3..22 ..145 .W,21  9.4  _.....  ..
Subtotal Training                                                                                                    ....n ...n    U251      - - .U5  ....ai  ....Zu -..ji.
Subtotal MAP Veterinary Department                                                                                         451    300    141       -   06    404   414    161         -1.09
S. KSatil...l Veterinary n-titute
2.. Laboratory Equipment lj
a. NVI Lab.                                             luep nun                                                   6B4    000    010          1,654   762   571   05           - 1,01
b. Regiona1L lbs                                         lump S..                                                  205    302       -       - 587   117   345           --         66
P.'PoutryIlot. Lab.                                     lump sos.2S7                                                                --       ...257        .293  .._._.,    2.
Subtotal Laortory Squiposot                                                                                            060 1.059    500        -2,529 1.079 1,200    hOE             2,87
2. Compting. quipmet
a. 60  Epideoiology                                     ryntem                                                     25      -       -      .    25    25        -      .            2
b    einL.bahrutory Data Ubit  Ik                          u-z              S      -                           S0  .25    .,   ..........  ....2.l    la. 2.....   .......
subtotal Comput Ing Equipe..nt                                                                                          s0       -                    0     hi      -       -       
2. Vehicles
a. Sedans, NVO                                             unt1                    I                    2    20      22     2C              -    40    22    23         -      -     4'
b.46D.VI                                                   unt             I          -          -      a    I0    30                            30     33       -      --           3
r. 4"H  Regional lobs.                                   cnit             2      2      -      -      4    20    40    41 -'-                  50     45    46        -      -     9'
d. 4ND, PoultryInst.                                       unit            I              -      -      1    20  _,.2.D        .........        20  ___...22                         2 ..o.....
Subtotal. vehicles                                                                                                     IID    60                    1  70   123    is      -      -   19.
4. Truining
C.nt'aigous Disease Analysis                          pereon .notha         3      6      6      3    is       7 ......2 ...42 ....42  -_-...I --I"  ....2.    48...A  .490 25 .._2.d
Subtota  Oftimes  Veterinary Inatituts                                                                                  1.150  1.161    542      21 2,674 1.201 1,125   634          20 3,266
C.CotiaVeterinary Chamber
1. 3ffices Furniture and Equipmeot                          lump cue                                                    21       .                   21    23       .             .      21
2. Veterina ry Journal /I                                   lum. ou                                                     20              .            20    22       --                  22
3. Private Veterinarian Skill Development In                lup .um            4      3      3      2     12    10 ....f .,,,.0        la.2.     __la0 ..2  ...A.  34.2   is...l  ...21 ....
subtotal Croatia Veterinary Chasber                                                                                      I.,02     IC...2f .20   9..2.  252  ...0    34...  ....2 ...21  i.2sd
Tota .saametCoata                                                                                                            1.684 1.500    710       41 4.222 1.065 1.793   537         49 4,545
A. ..oc .a..tal Staffing
veterina ry EpidemiIooist /0                             perso  montha       24    24    24       24     06      1    24      24      24     24     96    24      25     26     26    101
S. Vehicle 0 & H /p
1. Sedan                                                     000 km           20    40      60     60   100  0.24        5     10     14      14     43      5     la    I~ -.    7     50
2. Four Wheel Driv                                           000 km           30    75      90     90   205  0.25  8..._. ..j  ...2.1    23...l 7....f  a.,....   _..2   ..$...2.o ...
Subto ta2 Vehicle 0 A H                                                                                                     12     26     3 7    37   214      14     32      415   44    133
C. Equipment1 0 &, H
Loboc atno ... uipoen.t /q                                  lump num                                                    00   :90   201   200    740    56   217   29:   302    065s
Computng Equipseott /rO   w                                                                                          ...... ...A  ........4IC  2. In....2  .2    ... 4 4 ....  ...2    322
Sub total Equipmen t 0 & H                                                                                                  5 4    :94   260   260   7 67      60   221   204   312    697
D. Animal Health Monitoi.-g'S-rvIlcnc  In                      lup                                                                    ___3.   2  ...lDL .2,00  .21.  ......li.s 24k.A2 
Total Rec-rren  Coat.s2   .146  4221  4A2. 1.1327 .2.51    392   4902 S.2.   1.538
Total                                                                                                                         1.5824 1.926 1,136   462 5,347 2,019 2.186 1.327,  SFm  (.052
\a HiniJue 4B6/DX2  33MHZ sachluce  for local data reordung and line  troeocint  the central data haus
\h To be phaeed in line with  epidemiological studie..
\c Up to Dour epecialiets visiting for up to 2 weeks eah. Specialist uill t,um   vet-crin.r.. in  h.ol. herd preventtive hSCLh  ncgeet
Id To prepare/adapt software to auit loca  applications
\e Sea PIP. Annen A. Chapter V for details.
\f SpecialSeed training in epidemiological data eanagenent and epu...t-c die...e cotrol prograsee  aaeet
Ng Training in Austria and Gemany
\h 0versceas  training in episoo.tic disease. montro1 and containment str-tegis..
\i To he conducted by KA? and NVI staff. Training to rover,  intec-alia, disease. con trol and containment atrategues and field identification, technlquee.
\J Further detail  available in Working Paper.
\k Occludes 000 4560X2/SOONH  conputer and lase.r jet printer Plum  sOftware and  peripheral equipmoent  at each Begiona1 laboratory sod the Poultry Laboratory.
ki To coveritthe'coat of the Journals. year one preparation end publication coats.
\m  Preparation of the tra.ing courses coud he contracted by the Veterinary Chasber. Foreign advisors Could be involved with so-me contracta.
In Incmme.etal nehila, sod equipment operating and maintenance costs could be re...nered through service  fae..
\o Do  staff member  -Iud apecialize in disasae information  mna.gement acd ths other in epicontic disease control.
\p 10,000 km/yr in Year onesiod 15.000 Sm/yr thereafter.  tiloneter rate based on 305 of fuel price fmgsdn  and 3S% of ean e for 4WD vehicle..
\q Estimated at  lot of equipmen t masta..
Nsr Etimated at 7% of -osputer purchase costa
\s Includeas c.ntaigous disease.. ..astitie  an d food reeidae atudies aod eonitorlng/eurvilanre
Thu Aug 17 14:54:24 19955



z
Republic of Croatia                                                                                                    Z
Farmers Support Services Project
x
Table 2.4. Pasture and Forage Development /s
Detailed Costs
(000 US$)
Quantities                      Unit          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1996     1997      1998      1999      Total     Cost    1996    11997    Insl    1999    Total
L. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works lb
I. Laboratoryrrraining Compex Ic                  lump sum                                                                  446      314        -       -      759
2. Sleme Research Station Building Repair         lump sum                                                                  145        -        -        -     145
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                                          590      314        -        -     904
B,Equipmrrent Id
1. Laboratory Equipment ls                        lump sam                                                                  Ili      154        -       -      265
2. Field Equipment /f                             lump sumf                                                                 200      144        -        -     344
3. Univwrsty Foraep Breeding Programme           kluip sumn                                                                  45       34        -        -      79
Subtotal Equipmient                                                                                                           356      332        -        -     689
C. Vehicle
1. Compad Four WheatlDrive Pick-up                   unit            I         -                   -         1       16      1 8                                I -  1
2. LWBFour Vhel Drive Slatioriwagon                  unit            1         -         -                   1       27      30        -        -       -       30
Subtotal VehIcle                                                                                                               48        -        -       -       48
0. Training
1. Postgraduate Studies /g                         course            1        2          -         -         3      30       33       68        -       -      102
2. Extension6Staff Training /h                   person week        20       50        50          -       120      0.5      1 1      29       29        -      69
3a StudlYour it                                  person week         8         -         -                   a        3      27        -        -        -      27
4. European Pastae Network Meetings               k lmp sum                                                                   4        5        5       5       18
Subtota Trainiing                                                                                                              76      102      34        5      216
EL Technical Asasisance
Pasture Resource Inventory Specalstit /k        person monfth      0.5         -         -         -       0.5       20      10        -                 -      10
Pasture/Livestock Economist                     person moniths      1I                  1          -         2       20      20        -      21         -      42
Grassland Management AI                         parson months        1         1         1         1         4       20      20       21      21       22       84
Pasture Based Ruminanit Nutrition Specialist/In  pereon monfth        -       1          -                   1       20        -      21        -        -      21t'
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                  51       42      43       2.2    156
F. Grasaland Inventory Study In                     Lump sum                                                                   70        -        -70
Total investment Costs                                                                                                         1.191     789      76       27   2,083
N. Recurrent Coats
A. Vehicle 0. 
SWBH4WD Pick-uplo                                  OOD0km           10       1 5       1 5       1 5        55     0.24       3        4       4        4       1 5
LWB 4VSWflttorwagon /p                             000 km           1 0      1 5       1 5       1 5        55     0.26       3        4       5        5       1 7
Subtotal Vehicle 0 S                                                                                                           6        9       g        9       32
B.Laboratory0& MI/q                                 lump sum                                                                   1 1      23      23       24       81
C. Field Operations: Equipment 0  M S/r             luimp sum                                                                   7       1 1      12      12       42
D. Triealend Demonstrations /s                      Lumnp stan                                                                 22       23      23       24       92
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                            46       66      67       69      248
Total                                                                                                                          1,237     855      144       96    2,331
%a Thia programme will be implemented by the Depaitmnert for Forage and Grasslad Development, Agricultural Faculty. Unirversity of Zagreb.
%b Detailed Bills of Quantity on project file.
%o To be conrstrurted at the Sijeme pasture research station.
%d See PIP, Annex A, Chapter VI, attached tables for details.                                                                                                                                      -
%s See PIP, Annex A, Chapter VI for detailed equipment tist and coast breakdown.                                                                                                                   2
Cs
if Equipment for two regiona liocations. See Working Paper for detaled equipment list and cost breakdown                                                                                          c
lig One yearn overseas training with thsis study in Croatia. indudess cost of two research supervision visits.
~kh All extension staff are expected to attend a one week pasture and forage management training course.
Ui Study tours for faculty statf to European pasture research centres. Four persons by two weeks.
4 To cover expenses of participation in the FAO European Reseach Cooperative Network on Pastures end Fodder Crops.-
%k To assist in the completion of the national pasture resource inventory study.                                                                                                                  l
Y To review research priorites and programmes and evaluate fth faculty pasture curriculae & practiosl training programnmes.
Im To review research priorities and programmes and to evaluate the facuftieas animal nutrition cufficulae.
In To be implemented by the Department of Forage and Grassland Production, University of Zagreb.
%o 1 0,000 km in Year one.  15000 km/yr thereafter. Vilometer rate @l30% prevailing of fuel price.
IpD 10,000 km in Year 1, 15,000 km/yr thereafter. Kioee aeQ3%o  rviin0ulpie
%q Estimated at 10% of equipment value.
Vr Estimated at 7% of equipment value.                                                                                                                                                            0
Ia Estimated cost of US$250 per sits per year. Work to be pentally contracted to exiatrig regional research institutions.



Project Implementation Plan                                                                              - 123 -                                                                                            ANNEX B
Repebso el Cm5h
FPor_  SUPpelt Sbrie  Projod
Tabte 2.5. Sed Ishdby Dm lpmeri
O bI.d Ceto
(Om UU)
Osentsine                        Unt           TotblS ldh    Cosk ande
Unt        IN        t IS7?    I9e       i99       Tote       Cost    IS 1      N?       t        t       T -
t. teont-Me  Cent
A. Ntoe S.sd  nhie                                  sed b4en                                                                     se                                  e
3. Eqrlpsnsrt ib
I VsretyTri Wob32mp wn                                                                                                       638       20         -7
2 irigtn Equprt Id                                kmpstun                                                                               11        -I1t
3. Lbeorntory Eqrtlpnonl
Seed GusMy Ttng is                              Wmp Sn                                                                               41                         1t0
Chilntl RA                                      Urp Sum                                                                      45       27        -        -       72
Prlhoe                                          vnp Sun                                                                      33      23         -                Sh
Lob. FPeuro                                     bmw sum                                                                      11                                  11
S.ebtIM    Lbebonory Equlpmnt                                                                                                 176       51                 -      270
4. Omen Eq.ipment
Fuothus                                            ss             25                                       25      08        22            -        -            22
Coe.derg Equpmnt 11                               u'              1               -              -         10        4       45        -                         45
Sebot.9l Ome. Equlpmerd                                                                                                        67                 '7
Srsbtete  Equtpmsnt                                                                                                             553      422        -        -    1.305
C. Vdiles
I Stdsnlg                                           cr0              2         2         -         -          4       20       45       4t        -                90
Z Lsrg-vsntroir                                      cr6             2                                        2       30       57                 -        -       67
.3 Smesusn                                          ur2              2                    12                          1        40        -        -        -       40
Subtotul Vehlelot                                                                                                                         46        .        - 4. 197
D. Tr emIng
1. In.eo e Trslnlng
Send Cshfichs,on Rstrsnmg Count /h            pmr-on o-ths        30         -        20         -         S0      0 *       13                S         -       23
2. Study Tours
Sood Cetlirt.ton h                              tmp sum                                                                      II        .        -        -       11
VSU Tn Ah                                       bmkmp*um                                *                                                       -        - -
DUo TOstgk                                      bmpsum                                                                        I        .        -                 5
Ouely snd Sdd CeMifloten A                      bumpSum                                                                      14                 -                    14
Subtlotl Study Teue                                                                                                            43                   .....  41
SubtoAls Trening                                                                                                                 57                 9 S       -
E. TehnI Ausisdtn
ISW Cdrenr.onSpor-st et                         personoks  e                   -         -                    a        5      41         -        -        - *1
2 SendIndudry Rogulsios Spiebut /n              pnrsn,ons            3         1                              4        5       1S        5 .-              -       20
2 OUS TrlT th ptclstlo                          pnreP ns tks         2         1         -                    3        5       10        5        -                I IS
4. VCU "T. h Sp ebutiP                          pne nnoss,ku         2         1                              3        5       10        5        -                i Is
Subtelsi Tsohiest. Asietnt-                                                                                                      76 1e    Is                         92
Totlsis   tment Cn1ts                                                                                                           1.223      4e4    g                 1.715
ti. Sterroot Costs
A. Setertee hq
1. RFetssrh C.ord-1orsrr                           morh              9        12        12        12        45       1 2       11       15      Is        1e       57
2. Nlon=   Plent inet.ts LuLtiretoty
Seuntelgitls                                     menth             5        12        12        12         45      12        11       15       ts       1e       57
3. NP CompsId  Smioks
Cumputer Sytsm  Opolrtorl Aoneh                                    9        12        12        12         45      12        11       15       15       16       57
Computer Progrenr lit                            month             9        12        12        12         45        1        r       12       13       13       47
Sublotet NI Computer Sekvc                                                                                                    20       27       26        26    104
4. Pi  Teting Centr
Tool Cordurstor                               peron month          5        12        12        12         45      12        11      15        15       16       57
iJS Tnre Coerdrrtorc h                        ps.on monlh          a        12        12        12        45                                                     337  e  5  5    22
VCU Tdsb Coerdhmer A.                         pe-nnen rth          9        12        12        12         45      0.7        a        9        5        9       t3
but<t Ptsed TootIte Cedno                                                                                                      24       32      3Y        34      123
5. Pe Pt.t lIs,ih Ctstm
IPMS elbt, ht                                    renh                       '         24        24         57        1        -        5      26        26       SI
5. Vadrity Trls: FiWd Stsdo. ty
Trls Sttron Msn.ge Sl                         Pence month         is         1        38                  I26        1       1e       37       3e      32       133
S       I.n.vs ise                            Penoo  mo.. rs      46       So                             22 e0  122  1      4       52       e4       Ns       240
Ad,Mirtrtot Ibb                               Peon mrihts         la        36        55 35               12       07        13       25       27       27       93
T.h-. c inihe                                 Psonemn hth         N        50         e0        60        215      0.7       2e      44        45       46      160
Equipmset Opeetor hdd                         Psnun mon_hs         t        N         35        M         12e     oN5        12      25        26       2e       SI
SebtMtst Visty Triers: Fidd Stetlone                                                                                          117      14       1N      204      714
7 Csu-l Lbou,                                     hmp *um                                                                       2        2        2        2 _      5_
Subtei. S.t tert                                                                                                                153      295      3128     3      1.125
S. OtYtenO 0 N
I Rrtet Netnet Pin.t ic uluFiPeMires Ins            e2w 525                 am         ODD       500      2.400      02       134      137     140       144      SSS
2 Pl-n Tesing FPId Tril  slst- It                  m-a,            300       300       300       300      1.200     0 12       40       41       42      41       156
3. Utktt  Mutene. S Co-nn..U    /55               1*1an sum                                                                    22       23       23       24       32
SubNet OtIe OS N M                                                                                                              1N       201      205      211      814
C, Vehdts CAM 0hh                                    WObnrk           40        e0 00               so        220     024       1I        16       17       17       et
D S... lndcstry Aeseenlton Support rh bmp Scm                                                                                    11       11       12       12       46
ToteR eurnst Cost                                                                                                                 403      524      553      567    X040
Totl                                                                                                                             1.525    1.005     se2      Ea        52
is Est,esd  ut flo oonnerdg -s.Ig unnrersdy irtdrutn scusy Its sed enS. Deted est stule to bh pmsd by MAF aW pprus
'I So PIP. Andn A Chsprt Vll soeched tbues ton huius, detst
e FPo VCU end DUS tirh tr three i      .e.ere  se seed rurty tr-e to the sW Apprs.ssl tpon fot doteded cod . ebkdom,
Wd FPo DUS  -tly til .5..
s Eqment f.r VCU sod DUS tontep Dtsteld St the Send Indutry Annu- In the Stul Appr,elu Repot.
V ttm-um 4=63X2.66 MUHe .speey One L.., re p"dsr per S urrput-n Soft-  sod pthtlor kttteo tekdd d  cn "nb,tete
g FPeruse by NPI m4r4g rnot od contrl suenen nt
St A nhlet hnnoortteiamnrncorseI pisot nqurty sod heat1 nsru eropoi   m 5pertepoteothz s seond sense br 10 pelnpnts Styost
Y Te n    ton e tn dSe mbs to study seed erspedrh ptdto W. ulctd Eupe  -enuie,
Ten dy Yblot t UPOVAISTA pptosd  dty h  progrre hr EuroPe.
U Te dey motko tPOVOSTA epyrovWd DUS testng p.oems It EuroPe.
F Fllen, dety *5 to UPOViIOTA   due nr to          Intr    Euo
ho SpodJte It orp mopehbon tio s       .equtty nd hes., Con-etnwuid owppod the hrs send e  ntteten ruirstr po-n-
to To  rcd. ure tir grr_mmemt s.d ee erd ...seM MA n dsopi"g  Wpprttg ngulhen-.
bb St    eterd mWe  dgrr tSt    _t evd dtmeit,o! eupeds oeths DUS tdeb proge  sod ntennr the et te yosn M hpi-moblen
bVTh. r peStM n -uNd bh rspeusIb  ho nttebsohhhg tIh  _tIt l rnd scisiSe deWsn smd kor nrotehrgho ewromseb   oU .ss VCU blb prg.em nose the *rs t ro y.ro
\q Mod ppeb ord he fbid Orvough tho me1g1bn of Se UaF ce teritg sod phrt qusr    rJII fnssd tht VW-thstu  tiStubs ed Pbsd Potdomrs  Sit h    teh  the m P
V Th.  oosrub, erdieeotw d pl- n spa ndntin enpeuty te -o-_btt fe condrd -r-et-h proK nes
Ih RInpontible tor e NPI  edea.ogicenl wrk
6 -rpeoshh h Stof ostuhMt   sod nenn                u r  yerpsdery bmt ion   ouppei rt S  NPI prbfifelten ed forAl em     pIro
Wo rstnrb/4 tor pbmho  sd morteqg sros  J. supped otenhoebt   qr*msot
tR.spos*fto   the Ptort Tflg Cont  mneer htrete thtton l erdfor OWLS Irish.
le o       b thr PFird TootIn Centr mnegr he Sm  hrele OW  tsdg por r
to To wped Se U.   elthotd edn IPM enPrsy bdhhr Crobne sg       o  Teo IPM st dor ekerdy  _dd St the Prd ProtonSn In.ttb,
tyTh. neSt  W tes st    -n ub. he  de prdr  to Zeok A  enr tolb -nsbd heboend r en                teer sods Sethn  Ie   rdnd      m. go-ecytem  St ltr.
IS Onr pe rill steotd  The teit rest steed would opWm hr St  ensd p d yer.
to Twen vartt teoobd dt enehb     r tteeI eodntteonb Cen stt meet dh WoIrle Slbl  duJbn
bb One pen n_ty -  sAir Rmpo,seitt tm  esend g4rr4  nlolbe sI      dtrJm trw
ioe Two us sa.h bo slolen e eodtrs    C.m  end Wot tIe Mlust bt Wsl rn
idd 0ore Seide the tons Subi v"tutiets
NPerer tenSeenul is hbe tore   rthreebn  etso nsithssed.
WA Mooa d    on ehe one         thpir ot bugh    Wd b     Ch. NPI m       rndn  e rrlnl sodn (stty    et    stbtitek lfeo       rrd   -h) L.%
UtF nbrau    --- I -- b - -r  n w eh .nrrbe  ro .df eh 01dw,
la Mold nA eed4 .0 b.r -eo dl I -ug  ftomt, hr t        dh  -d eNkWJ-Xc d-
rstao, ovusirtemYenl 10 h0000Y..     S.DD    tho - Kbet r re%    o Q  3 Mpnobl ts pre
to To  tppt beeWel s e   ud ptipeleptkn St hlnmolo m-.._g



ANNEX B                                                                                        - 124 -                                                     Project Implementation Plan
Repuc of Cromtb
fPesoem Suppon sernie. Pnojed
Table 2. PoDcy Anaibh Sepport
Debiled Coa
(000 US$)
U4uent            Tsr                     Unit          Totals Including Coentls
Unit             1059         tI9?          INS           INS           Total       Cost    1808    tNT        939    19t9    Tetal
L Investment Coats
A. MAF Policy Department
1. Equipment
a. Office Equipmennlis                                        set                    I                                                       1        7        5        -        -        -       I
b Computers
MAF Poicy Analysis Unltb                                   unl                     3             -             -             -             3      8.8       20                 -        -      29
Data Centre MAF /e                                      hump saw                                                                                           139        --
MAF Trining Unt Id hdtop sum                                                                                                                                50                                  o -  50
Subtotal Computen                                                                                                                                            218                          -     218
Subtotal Equipmnt                                                                                                                                              226        -        -        -     226
2. Technical Assistence
a. PolicySpecidisl                                          mooh                     6            12             a                          24       20      122      249      128        -     40
b. Trade Analyst                                            monih                    3                                                       3       20       o1        -        -        -      G1
c. Technici Spec.alsis/a                                    montmb                   1             1                           1             4       20       20       21       21      22       84
Subtotat Techlcel Asisetnce                                                                                                                                   203      270      149      22      643
3. Contract Studias
a. Policy Studies
Dairy Industry Policy                                      study                                                                                              -     122        -        -     122
Land Policy                                                study                                                                                          9li         -        -        -     t19
Oilseeds Industry S9udy                                    study                                                                                           119                                le 1t
Fertilter Industry Study                                   study                                                                                           119        -                 -     li1
Sugar Industry Study                                       study                                                                                              ,     122        Z.             122
Subtobl Policy Studies                                                                                                                                      3*s       243        -        -     ec
4. Training
a. MAF Policy Un Staff Oeseeas Trg.                      person months               6             3             3             3             is       7       47       24       25      25      121
b AnnualuPcicy ReviewSerdnur/I                            permondays               120           t20           120           120           480    0016         2        2        2        2       9
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                                               49       26       27       27      129
Subtotal MAF PoliCy Deparblant                                                                                                                                   833       539     17e       49     596
B. Institute of Agricultural Economics /g
1. Computing Eriuipmenrd and Sotwarem it                     hoop sum                                                                                           85        -                 _      es
C. Market Itfomstlon Servica
1. Stuff Training
a. StaftOwerses Trainingli                               peron months                2             2             -             -              4       6       13       14        _        _      27
2. Technical Assistance
a. Market intormtion SpedaLst                            parson months               1             I             -                            2      20       20       21        -        -      41
3. Equipmenlt3
a. Markel Information Computers                              un                     11                                         -             11       2       25        -        -        -      25
b. Policy Anlysis Unt Computr                                 unt                    I                                         -                      5        6        -        -        -       6
Subtotal EquIpment                                                                                                                                              30        -        -        -      3D
Subtotal Markst Infonmnton Service                                                                                                                                64       3.        -        -       N
Total Investment Coots                                                                                                                                             982      574      176      49    1.751
11. Recurnt Cooss
A. Incremental Staffing
1. Policy Analysia Uni
Trade PolcyAnaist                                           morih                    9            12            12            12             48        1       9       12       13      13       47
Murkel Anahyst                                               morrih                  9            12            12            12             45       1        9       12       13       13      47
FamP  Management Specidalist                                 mont                    9            12            12            12             45        1       9       12       13       13      47
supportSlaff                                                monih                    9            12            12            12            45       04        4        5        5       5       19
Sublotat Policy Analysis Unit                                                                                                                                   31       42       43      44      181,
2. Market Infomnation Servie
Maoret Enumerators A                                         days                 1.500         3.000        3.000         3.000         10,500    0.008      12       25       26      26       89
Subtotal Incremental Steffing                                                                                                                                     43       67       69      71      250
B. Trnsl, DSA
1 OSA                                                          days                   40           100           100           100           340      0.08       4        9       9       10       32
2. CarbMileage A                                              0t0ktm.                 20            30            30            30            110     0.24       5        8        8        9      31
Subtotal Travel, DSA                                                                                                                                               9       17       16      18       62
C. Ofllce 0 M
I Policy Un Matedas. Communntdcation mbho mgm                                                                                                                  11       II       12      12       46
2 Marketlormesion Service Commrunoio ns                    bhmp sam                                                                                             2        2        2       2        9
Sublotat aOce a  M                                                                                                                                               13       14       14       14      55
0. Publications
1 Public Reporns                                              Repot                    3             3             3            3              12       3       10       10       11      11       42
2. Market News Announcemenlts                                hop oum                                                                                             2        2        2       2        9
Subtotal Pubilcations                                                                                                                                             12       13       13       13      51
E. Monitoring /m
1. FPmnMontoing/n                                          haf-yeertybsl             300           400           400          400           1.500     005       17       23       23      24       87
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                               94      134      137     140      50s
Total                                                                                                                                                             1,076     708      313      190    2.2865
la Heavy duty photocopier and cornputer-bsed ovseread proeador.
lb 468 DX/SO MHz mettle wkh 16 MB Ram min'luo opedlketon. Cost icldeas ptphis and Iwo buot prineo.
tc Expanded cowuting facttleo In MAPAF ltnttei  Cente.
td MAF ilntomatlon Centre cDmputer tratnhg fiary.
I To support industry speclb Studies.
VAnnual me day workshop hdncudhg government tarmsig. agro-duotry endt nrds tepesentatves
tThe insuits, the tub til for which b the nattute otAgritutel Eanmoer   ant FPin Maragment , b  part of the Agicutur Faculy of the Unheroy of Zagreb.
vh To enlbie IAE to undertake cwntnded ftrm moim"ng had picy sAudies fr MAF.
'9 Swoondrmen to agricultu   market hrfmtatn servics hI Ewope
u, Equlpmerd for MIS to be procund undr TA cst
I; Three hundred days market recwrdg par yea   tle markets.
It Mige paymet to ue of pivte gafa Iadl. MWpe  rtew adO n 30% of prag h  pet.
to To be inpemeeed thmugh the Agtlcusrnt EwnomlI Id Farm Mtnpn    h t
to Thme hun7dred mnditly elled  ars  Wouth hbuhrbkd hia yer one b _asn aurvy. ThIereafer. 50 sawe td twn w be surwyed hi cas cone twice yearty.



0
Republic of Croatia
Famiers Support Services Project
Table 2.7. Project Management
Detailed Costs                                                                             o
(000 USS)
Quantities                         Unit          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit        1996       1997       1998       1999       Total      Cost    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Vehides /a                              unit              2          -                     -           2      20       45         -       -        -       45
B. Technical Assistance
Mid-term Review /b                  person months          -          2          -          -           2      20         -      42        -        -      42
C. Equipment
1. Office Equipment /c                   set               I          -                                 1      15       17        -        -        -       17
2. Computers /d                          unit              4          -          -          -           4       4       18        -        -        -       18
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                        35         -       -        -       35
Total Investtent Costs                                                                                                      79       42        -        -      121
II. Recuffent Costs
A. Salaries /-
Assistant to Projed Manager         person months         12         12         12         12          48      0.7       9        9        9        9       35    _
ProcurementOfficer                  person months         12         12         12         12         48       0.7       9        9        9        9      35
Finandal Controller                 person months         12         12         12         12         48       0.7       9        9        9        9      35
Administrative Assistant            person months         12         12         12         12          48      0.5       6        6        6        7       25
Secretary                           person months          9         12         12         12         45       0.5       5        6        6        7       24
Subtotal Salaries                                                                                                         36       39       40       41      155
B. Vehicle O & M /f                      000 km             20         30         30         30         110     0.24       5        8        8        9       31
C. Office O & M                         iump sum                                                                           8       11       12       12       43
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                       49       58       60       61      228
Total                                                                                                                       128      100       60      61      349
\a Four door sedan.
\b To be implmented in the last quarter of project year two. The review team would be accompanied by a full World Bank supervision team.
\c Heavy duty photocopier, audio-visual equipment, office fumiture.
\d 486 DX2 system minimum specification with CD ROM drive, one laser jet printer per two computers. The cost of supporting software and peripheral accessories is included in the cost estimate.
\b Fixed term contract employees.
Vf Ten thousand km/yr in Year 1, fifteen thousand km/yr thereafter. Milage paid at 30% of prevailing fuel price per km.
z
z
tri
w



ANNEX B                                      - 126 -                     Project Implementation Plan



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX C
PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.        Project procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table C. 1 below and will be
undertaken in the following manner:
(i) Procurement of goods. The purchase of vehicles; computers; seed, grassland, and
veterinary laboratory equipment (excluding applied research related equipment; see
below, Procurement of Research Services); specialized farming equipment (for seed and
pasture variety trials); and milk and meat quality testing equipment would be carried
out through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January
1995). Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or above would be procured
through ICB. Goods procured through ICB would constitute about 90 percent of cost
of Loan-financed goods. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for equipment to be
procured through ICB, Croatian manufactures would receive a domestic preference in
bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever
is less, provided that a bidder offering goods manufactured in Croatia establishes to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that (i) labor, raw materials and components
from within Croatia will account for more than 30 percent of the Ex-Works price of
the product offered; and (ii) the production facility in which those goods will be
manufactured or assembled has been engaged in manufacturing / assembling such goods
at least since the time of bid submission.
(ii)   The remaining 10 percent of Loan funded goods would be in minor packages suitable
for procurement methods other than ICB as follows:
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for office furniture: two contracts
(financing amounting to approximately US$470,000) would be concluded using
Bank's NCB bidding documents for goods; there are numerous national
manufactures and traders of office furniture in Croatia ensuring competition in
the provision of these goods; also the size and the nature of the contracts is not
likely to generate foreign interest in bidding;
(b)  contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract (financing
amounting to US$280,000 in the aggregate), including audio-visual equipment,
small-scale irrigation equipment, herd performance recording equipment, and off-
the-shelf items such as office and training supplies, may be purchased through
National Shopping (NS), obtaining price quotations from at least three qualified
local suppliers; and



ANNEX C                                                 - 128 -                            Project Implementation Plan
Table C.1: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure                      ICB            NCB           Other          NBF       Total
Goods                                       7,437           562   (a)      307    (c)              8,306
(6,193)        (472)          (284)                   (6,949)
Civil Works                                                 904   (b)      56      (d)              960
(796)          (49)                    (845)
Consulting Services and Studies                                           3,713   (e)              3,713
(2,441)                 (2,441)
Training                                                                  4,351   (f)              4,351
(2,610)                 (2,610)
Agriculture Research                                                      5,194   (g)              5,194
(4,155)                 (4,155)
Incremental Recurrent Cost                                                               7,476     7,476
()        ()
Total                                       7,437           1,466        13,621          7,476    30,000
(6,193)        (1,268)        (9,539)         (-)     17,000
NBF    Non-Bank financed.
Note:   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
(a) National competitive bidding: (aggregate amount financed US$0.47 milUon) for office furniture (two contracts)
(b) National competitive bidding: One civil works contractfor the rehabilitation of the Sleme Pasture Research Station and the
construction of the Pasture Laboratory and Training Facility at said station (aggregate amount financed US$796,000)
(c) National shopping: (aggregate amountfinanced $0.28 million) audio-visual equipment, small-scale irrigation equipment, and
herd recording equipment.
(d) National shopping: (aggregate amountfinanced US$0.049 million) for a single civil works contractfor estabUshment of smaU
genebank.
(e) Consultant services (aggregate amountfinanced US$ 1.68 milion) for advisors, national and international experts (in part
to prepare local training courses and curricula), and policy studies to be engaged in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. Consulting services to be grouped into six major contracts.
National advisors to be hired individually by farmer associations (aggregate amountfinanced US$0.76 million); total of 45
advisory contracts to be concluded.
() Training, at home and abroad, andfellowships (aggregate amountfinanced US$1.9 million). Local in-service training for
extension service staff, research staff, veterinary institute staff, carried out by MAF, ARC, NVI, NSA partiaUy in conjunction
with above consulting services; includes development of farmer based herd recording through CLSC.
Direct purchasing (aggregate amount financed US$0.340 milUon) of specialized research and extension publications and
journals (ranging from US$20 - 250).
National shopping (aggregate amount financed US$0.37 millon) for the publication of a farm management handbook; a
veterinary journal; and extension mass media packages (some 30 contracts up to US$30,000).
(g) Competitive Grant Research: (aggregate amountfinanced US$4.2 milion) for appUed agriculture research contracts awarded
to national qualfied research organizations based on research TORs established by ARC, research proposals submitted by
research organizations, evaluations carried out by independent research review panel (some 50 research contracts ranging
from US$50,000 to 150,000).



Project Implementation Plan                      - 129 -                                        ANNEX C
(iii) Procurement of works. Two civil works contracts would be carried out, consisting (i) of the
rehabilitation of the Sljeme Pasture Research Station, and the construction of the Pasture
Laboratory and Training Facility at said station; and (ii) the installation of a small seed bank at
the Faculty of Agronomy, University of Zagreb. The first contract (i.e., construction and
rehabilitation of Sljeme Pasture Research Station, estimated to cost US$904,000 (financing
US$796,000), would be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures in
accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The issue of prequalifications would be discussed
at negotiations. The second civil works contract (i.e., installation of a gene bank), estimated to
cost US$56,000 (financing US$49,000), would be done following National Shopping procedures
for small works based on price quotations from at least three local qualified contractors. The local
construction industry is qualified to carry out such relatively simple civil works; also, it has been
established that sufficient competition exists amongst the local suppliers of civil works. Given the
remote location of the Sljeme Pasture Research Station, and the small value of the second
contract, it would not be likely to attract foreign bidders. A Country Procurement Assessment
Review (CPAR) for Croatia will be done following the passage by Parliament of its Public
Procurement Law. The CPAR is tentatively scheduled for early 1996. Meanwhile, the Bank's
NCB bidding documents for works will be used for the above -mentioned NCB contract.
(iv) Procurement of consulting services. Consultants for specialized and professional services financed
under the project would be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). These services
will be procured on the basis of shortlisting of qualified well-known firms, both international and
local. With the exception of a long term agriculture policy specialists, all individual consultancy
assignments are of a short term nature (between one to three months) and many include the
development of training programs and curricula.
2.        Specialized services would include six consulting contracts (estimated total cost US$1.84
million) for each of the project components. Each contract to be executed by international and national
consultants would include the following specialized services:
(i) extension: extension specialists, and skills training specialist;
(ii) research: applied research management specialist, applied research training specialist,
specialized agriculture research advisors;
(iii) animal health: veterinary epidemiologist, epidemiology data base specialist, whole herd
health advisor, computer programmer;
(iv)  grassland development: pasture resource inventory specialist, pasture/livestock economist,
grassland management specialist, pasture-based ruminant nutrition specialist;
(v)  seed industry development: seed certification specialist, seed industry regulations
specialist, seed testing and trials specialists; and
(vi)  policy analysis support: agriculture policy specialist, trade analyst, subsector policy
specialists and policy studies; and farm monitoring and market information activities.
3.        Included under item  (vi) para. 2 above (policy analysis support) but under separate
procurement arrangements are farm monitoring activities (aggregate finance US$100,000) and the
implementation of a market information system (aggregate finance US$100,000). Farm monitoring
activities including a baseline survey, and an annual farm survey would be commissioned directly from
the Institute of Agriculture Economic, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zagreb. The Institute of
Agriculture Economics is currently the only entity in Croatia to have the experience, staff and capacity
to carry out detailed empirical work in rural areas. MAF would implement the Market Information



ANNEX C                                        - 130 -                       Project Implementation Plan
System through its Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit. The required TA, overseas training and computing
equipment for the establishment of the Market Information System would be procured through shortlisting
from a single qualified consulting firm.
4.        National advisors would be hired by private farmer associations under the Farmer Association
Advisor Pilot Scheme. Sufficient private sector advisors with the required qualifications are available in
Croatia because of their redundancy caused by the dismantling of the ex-social sector agro-kombinats and
will provide adequate competition. The advisors would be procured through advertising in the local press.
The advertisements announcing the need of the advisors will include their terns of reference, based on
standard terms of reference which will be reviewed by the Bank. MAF would prepare these standard
terms of reference and will submit them to the Bank for its review, prior to the publications of
advertisements. The appointment of the candidate selected by the farmer association would be subject to
MAF's approval.
5.        Procurement of training services and materials. To the extent feasible external fellowships
and training programs shall be included as part of the technical assistance packages procured from
consulting firms and training institutions; otherwise external fellowships and training would be awarded
on a direct contract basis with foreign institutions selected by MAF with the prior approval of the Bank.
In service, local training would be carried out by MAF, ARC, NVI, and NSA directly, or in
collaboration with national institutions on the basis of shortlisting with the assistance of the consultant
experts mentioned above. Prior to the beginning of it's fiscal year, during the life of the project, MAF
would prepare and submit to the Bank a detailed training and fellowship program for its review and
approval.
6.        Training materials which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature (e.g. technical
publications and journals/reference materials, computer software, etc.), may be acquired through Direct
Contracting from proprietors and/or copyright holders, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The aggregate financing of training materials procured through Direct Contracting amounts to
approximately US$340,000. Development and publication of a farm management handbook, a veterinary
journal, and approximately 30 extension mass media packages (aggregate amount financed approximately
US$370,000) would be done on the basis of National Shopping.
7.        Procurement of research services. The ARC would award research contracts (estimated to
range from US$50,000 to US$150,000) under a competitive grant arrangement financed from the
Agriculture Research Fund supported by the Bank's Loan. The ARC would make public invitations for
research proposals, specifying the type of research, the methodology, and the scope of research work to
be carried out. Qualified national research organizations and enterprises (both public and private sector)
are eligible to submit research proposals which will be judged with the support of independent reviewers,
consisting of a team of experts from MOST under the responsibility of ARC, on their technical merit and
price competitiveness, and the contract will be awarded by the ARC. MOST would be responsible for
supervising the contracted research services. Laboratory and analytical equipment would be included into
the research proposal and would become a factor of evaluation of proposals. For the implementation of
this component a detailed operational manual would be prepared by MAF with the technical assistance
financed under a Japanese Grant Fund; MAF would submit this manual to the Bank for review to meet
the condition of disbursement under this component.
8.       Incremental operating costs. Incremental operating costs would be fully financed by
Government with recurrent cost items procured in accordance with regular Government procedures.



Project Implementation Plan                   - 131 -                                      ANNEX C
9.        Procurement Review. The Bank would conduct a prior review of all ICB package and all the
first NCB and NS procurement packages for civil works, and the first NCB for goods. Prior Bank
approval would also be sought for all direct contracting. In addition, prior review would be undertaken
for all consulting contracts above US$100,000 (firms) and US$50,000 (individuals). The Bank's standard
bidding documents would be used for ICB packages and for the recruitment of consultants.
10.      Procurement information to be provided by the Borrower. The Borrower would promptly
inform the Bank of contract award and procurement issues and would include the following procurement
information in its progress reports:
(a) for equipment/materials, work contracts, technical assistance, training and study tours:
status and timing of all pending activities; and
(b) status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



ANNEX C                                                  - 132 -                            Project Implementation Plan
Table C.2: Draft Procurement Plan and Schedule For Major Packages
Total Cost                    Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Estimated  Method of  Issue of  Submission  Award/Signing Completion
NatureofPa e[US$'000] Procurement Document of Bids/Prop   of Contract  of Package
Civil Works
Sljeme Station Rehab. and Construction  904    NCB         1/96       4/96         8/96         5/97
Seed Bank                               56     NS         1/96       4/96         6/96         2/97
Goods
Computer Equip. #1                     1,130    ICB        1/96       3/96         8/96         3/97
Computer Equip. #2                      300    ICB         1/97       3/97         7/97        12/97
Office Furniture & Equipment #1         330    NCB        2/96        4/96         8/96         2/97
Office Furniture & Equipment #2         230    NCB        10/96      12/96         4/97        10/97
Laboratory Equip.
Animal Health #1                     1,070    ICB       12/95       2/96         7/96         3/98
Animal Health #2                     1,160    ICB       12/96       2/97         7/97         2/98
Anirnal Health #3                     570    ICB         6/97       8/97         12/97        5/98
Seed                                  300    ICB         6/96       9/96         12/96        3/98
Pasture -/                            330    ICB         9/96       11/96        3/97         9/97
Vehicles
Vehicle #1                              850    ICB         1/96       3/96         7/96        10/96
Vehicle #2                              330    ICB         1/97       2/97         6/97        10/97
Agricultural Machinery
Machinery #1                            900    ICB         5/96       7/96         12/96        6/97
Machinery #2                            500    ICB         5/97       7/97         12/97        6/98
Technical Assistance              Short listed Consulting Firms to prepare I or more proposals in the mentioned areas
i. Extension                            410     SL         1/96       3/96         7/96       11/96 *
2. Research                             360      SL        1/96       3/96         7/96       11/96 *
3. Animal Health                        210     SL         1/96       3/96         7/96        11/96 *
4. Grassland Dev.                       220     SL         1/96       3/96         7/96        11/96 *
5. Seed Development                      85 individ. firm    1/96     3/96         7/96        11/96 *
6. Policy Analysis                  1,200 2/    SL        11/95       3/96         7/96        11/96 *
7. Private Farm Assoc. Adviser         1,230               short-listed by farmer association
Training
Overseas Training                      1,550                  implemented over 4 years
Local Training                         1,900           in-Service Training carried out over 4 years
Training materials/publications         900               Direct contracting / NS over 4 years
Agriculture Research (Competitive Grant System/ARC)
Applied Agriculture Research            1,100  Yearly program of research contracts along a timetable specified in
1,300    the operational manual for the research management system
1,400
1,400
1 - includes milk and meat quality testing equipment.
2 - of which, US$1 million is spent on TA; US$0.1 million on marketing information system; and US$0.1 million on farm
management survey.
SL - Short List
* and onwards



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX D
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Agriculture Extension .134
Agriculture Research .135
Animal Health ....... 136
Pasture and Fodder Development .137
Seed Industry Development .138
Policy Analysis Unit .139



Project Performance Indicators for Agriculture Extension                                                               z
Overall Obiective: (i) Improve income and welfare of farming community at large, improve profitability of farm enterprises as measured through project baseline and annual
farm monitoring surveys; (ii) Increased sustainability of agriculture production, as measured by agriculture area with medium to high negative environmental incidence        0
(soil erosion, nitrogen leaching)
Activity                                  Input / Process 1O Output Measurement                                          Impact
A. Public Extension.                                                                                                     Farmers requesting farm management, financial,
and marketing advise from ZESC measured by
breadth of advice requested
Adoption rates of technical innovations evaluated
by farmers
1. Establishment of ZESC
a. Offices of ZESC                  Office and computing equipment, Extension services mobile, and operational as  Improved contact with farmers, ZESC reacting to
vehicles procured              measured by number of farmers contacted (target:   specialized extension requests as indicated through
25,000)                                        farmer opinion surveys
b. Farmer Advisory Councils         Farmer advisory councils                                                       Long-term relevance of extension advice,
established                                                                   measured by changes in district extension work
program over time (as reflected in work program)
2. Diagnostic Surveys                  Diagnostic survey carried out    Reflection of local constraints and priorities in ZESC
work program
3. Extension Training Programs         Trainer program, orientation, in-  Improved farm management, financial, marketing,
service and specialized, and   environmental extension skills, as demonstrated by
overseas training implemented    breadth of advice offered (as reflected in work
program)
4. Extension Training Packages
a. Development of Thematic Packages  Thematic extension packages   Increased number of farmers reached, measured by
contracted                     use of training packages
b. Mass Media Programs              Mass media programs developed  Number of farmers reached, measured by number of
listeners/viewers (target 100,000 farms)
5. On-farm Trial & Demonstration       On-farm trials and demonstrations
Programs                               carried out by ZESC in coordi-
nation with applied researcher
B. Private Extension.                                                                                                    Farmers requesting farm management, financial,
and marketing advise from private advisers
measured by breadth of advice requested
Adoption rates of technical innovations evaluated
by farmers (comparison of adoptive rates under
public and private ?)
1. Private Fanner Advisory Groups (pilot  Farmer associations established;
scheme)                                   private advisers hired
Share in the provision of extension advice through
private sector, measured by number of advisors with
group after 2 years of contract (target: 900 farmers
under pilot program; 45 private advisers)
2. Farmer Herd Recording Groups        Recording groups established in   Milk recording undertaken by farmer groups,  Reduced public sector involvement and associated
three selected Zupanijas; basic    measured by number of cows recorded (target 1,800 cost in milk recording, by comparing operations
recording equipment procured    cows)                                         of the CLSC in participating and nonparticipating
Zupanijas
1 - Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).



Project Performance Indicators for Agriculture Research                                                               0
Overall Obiective: Relevant and timely research results available to farmers. Relevancy measure by i) adoption rates; ii) farmers assessment of research process and
degree/value of participation measured through opinion surveys iii) improved coherence between sector policy and research program; and iv) willingness of farmers to
contribute to Ag. Res. Fund                                                                                                                                                   C
0
Activity                           Input / Process V                    Output Measurement                             Impact
1. ARC                             Establish ARC with majority farmer    Formulation of research policy and priorities by  ARC / MOST operates competitive
representation                      ARC and decision on: i) request for research    grant research system efficiently
proposals, ii) research contracts and allocation of
Hire staff, procure office and computer funds. Measured by number of contracts signed
equipment, vehicle                  (target: average of 15 contracts p.o.).
Establish regulatory framework,     Organize ARC meetings, formulation of requests
working procedures, fund allocation    for proposals, on-site supervision of contracts
formula
Efficient distribution of research resources along
Establish: i) Fund under ARC, ii)   regional and subsector lines
auditing mechanisms
Research contracts executed according to schedule,
Establish working procedures in MOST  as measured by contract turnover, i.e., average time
on: i) research proposal screening and   between: i) proposal receipt and funding decision,
peer review, ii) research contract  ii) decision and contract signing; iii) contract,
administration, procurement         signing and fund allocation; iv) fund allocation and                                                 _
procurement; v) contract signing and presentation of
results.
Screening and peer review of proposal, present
shortlist to ARC, contract administraton,
procurement, as measured by number of contracts
carried out successfully.
2. Research Management Training    Visiting scientist program, research                                                 Evidence of improved research skills
Program & Technical Assistance     staff orientation training, research                                                 and adoption of international research
management training, research                                                       standards
reporting seminars
3. Research-Extension-Farmer       Fanning community major influence on Applied research results available to extension  Evidence of extension needs in
Linkages                           research policy, proposals and funding  service, farmers as measured by number of new  resarch proposals
as measured by farmer representation   extension recommendations.
on ARC                                                                              Relevance measured through farmer
improved contacts between research and extension   opinion surveys
i) Extension concept included in    services
research proposals; ii) # research
seminars; iii) # on farm trials;
I - Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).
ARC - Agriculture Research Council
MOST - Ministry of Science and Technology
ZERCU - Zonal Extension Research Coordination Units



z
Project Performance Indicators for Animal Health
Overall obiective: Progress in disease eradication.
Activity                                  Input / Process 1/             Output Measurement                   Impact
Strengthening of Epidemiological Services
Nat'l Veterinary Inst. (& regional branches)   Laboratory and computer   For the NVI Veterinary Laboratories::   Progress in disease eradication:
and MAF's Nat'l Disease Reporting Service   equipment, and vehicles      a) change in number of samples        a) change in vaccination cover of targeted
procured                       received for testing, differentiated by    disease:b) cost recovery in disease eradication
private/public sector submission;
Training (in-country) on       b) turnover time of samples (between
contagious disease analysis    sample received and results out)
c) cost recovery (% of costs of testing
recovered from client)
For MAF's epidemiology unit: a) data
collection (% of practitioners,
slaughterhouses participating in data
submission; b) data reporting number of
(summarized) reports sent to: i)
Government and relevant internat'l
institutions, ii) private vets, and iii)
private farmers
Croatia Veterinary Chamber               i) Office equipment                                                   Member participation measured by:
ii)Veterinary Journal                                               a) paying members (% of total profession);
iii) Private Veterinary Skills                                      election/re-election frequency of boards;
Development                                                         b) cost recovery and financial sustainability
I - Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).
NVI - National Veterinary Institute
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry                                                                                                                                    .
I.



0
C.,
Proj ect Performance Indicators for Pasture & Fodder Development
Overall obiective: Area under imnproved pasture and fodder management increased.
Activity                                   Input I Process 11               Output Measurement                    Impact
1. Development of Slejme Pasture Research    Construction and Rehabilitation   Training course for farmners and   Incremental grassland yields on private farns
Station                                    of training and laboratory       extension staff organized
facilities; laboratory and field                                      Increased feed efficiency and use of forage
equipment, and vehicle          Trials and Demonstration measured by
procured, TA recruited          number of faniner and extensionist trials
Fodder analysis, and field trails carried                                                             -.
out (number of feed sample analyzed)
I- Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).
z
z
ET1
D



z
Project Performance Indicators for Seed Industry Development
Overall objective: Improved plant genetic material from both, national and international sources available to farmers improvement of the availability, quality,a nd price of inputs
such as seed and agro-chemicals.
Activity                                 Input / Process a              Output                               Impact
National Seed Authority (NSA)            Establishment of NSA           Seeds:                               Incremental yield improvement based on
including Plant Testing       a) turnover time of certification (time   private farm record of licensed seed
Division, Plant Product       between submission of seed for
Certification Division, Plant    approval and issuing of license);  Increased amount of nationally produced
Health Division               b) number and variety of licenses    certified seed exported
issued;
Equipment procured            c) costs and cost recovery of seed   Increased number of seed multiplication
testing certification                under international licenses
Seed Certification Training;
Study Tours                   Agrochemicals:                       Improvement in efficiency of agrochemicals
a) number of new licenses issued;    used
Incremental staff hired       b) turn over time of licensing;
c) number of old licenses withdrawn;
d) quality of records on overall
agrochem. use (country-wide);
e) efforts made to inform farmers
about alternative to pesticides (e.g.
IPM); cost and cost recovery of
licensing agrochemicals; number and
timeliness, of warnings of predicted
pest occurrences issued.
Private licensed seed inspectors
I - Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).                                                                   0
0
3



0
CD
0
CD
Proj ect Perfornance Indicators for Policy Analysis Support
Overall obiective: Increase in sectoral efficiency (as measured through efficiency indicators).
Activity                                   Input IProcess I/               output                                 hinpact
1. Strengthening MAF's APAU                Staff recruited, office &       Quality and timely analysis and advice    Client satisfaction (MAF, MOF, producer
comiputer equipment procured    on broad range of policy issues        organizations)
i) APAU staff to overseas       Increased scope of analysis capabilities
training, ii) annual policy review  as measured by number of policy issues
seminar held                    under analysis
Policy studies contracted
2. Market Information System               MIS established: communication  Record of accurate market intelligence    nimproved marketing decisions by farmers,
hardware procured, enumerators  available                             traders measured by frequency of data use and
recruited and trained, broad-                                          informal surveys
casting program established
Survey of fanner and traders on relevance of
MIS
3. Baseline and On-farm Monitoring Surveys  Baseline Survey implemented     i) Broad empirical basis of private   Evidence of better understanding of farm
On-farm Monitoring System       fanning community; ii) regular micro-   systeim  and the agriculture economy
established                     levee data flow on famiing community
I - Performance measured against quantities established under detailed component cost tables (Annex B).
z
z
seminar held  under analysis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



ANNEX D                                      - 140 -                      Project Implementation Plan



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX E
SUMMARY FARM MODEL AND PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    During project preparation in June 1994 nine farm models were constructed so as to:
*  illustrate and check the likely farm level technical and production impacts of project
activities such as improved extension, research,veterinary services and input(seed) supply.
*  assess the financial viability of the new technical options in a range of farming systems and
locations.
v  assess the economic implications of the expected changes.
At appraisal in March 1995, five of these models were selected and updated. This annex describes and
presents the results of the analysis of these five models. The remaining four models are available on
diskette; they are not considered here so as to avoid undue complexity. Staff of the Institute of
Agricultural Economics, Faculty of Agronomy, University of Zagreb, participated actively in the
specification and analysis of the models. The University has a regular farm survey program and
completed additional interviews to check data used in the models with farmers and processors. In
particular, Mr. J. Kraljickovic and Mr. J. Juracak contributed much of the data needed to build the
models.
2.    The models are indicative and it is believed that they reflect changes which are likely to occur
on farms which are exposed to more focused extension services and have access to improved management
advice, seed, livestock and other inputs. Details of the models summarized here are given in Annex N
of the supplemental volume.
II. MODEL DESCRIPTIONS
A. GENERAL
3.    The project aims to strengthen support services to farmers which will enable them to improve
production efficiency, management and marketing. The project will help farmers to focus on the farm
as a business and to respond to market changes by varying activity patterns and input levels, as well as
improving technical efficiency. The key to this approach is an effective extension service with a
commercial orientation and access to quality research and technical services.



ANNEX E                                         - 142 -                        Project Implementation Plan
4.    The crop and livestock budgets which form the basis of each farm or household model were
prepared in consultation with local agronomists and economists and checked by field discussion with
farmers, where possible. Generally they postulate crop yield increases of about 15 per cent with project
and include higher fertilizer, better seed inputs and improved livestock rations. Farm size has been held
constant between without and with project situations, although there are changes in cropping patterns
with project. The impact of investment to expand farm size, buy additional machinery or livestock or
to install irrigation, is examined separately in the proposed Rural Finance Pilot Project. Model farm size
is typically in the range 5 to 7 ha (except for intensive Dalmatia Vegetable model). This is a little larger
than average private farm size in these regions but there are many such farms and it is considered that
they are likely to respond first to improved support services.
5.    Most of the options available within FARMOD to model household level estimates were used
to provide a comprehensive description and assessment. Labor budgets show substantial annual surpluses
of family labor in all models, without and with project. Seasonal peaks in labor demand require use of
hired labor in the intensive vegetable models and most models do require incremental family labor with
project. Household consumption of farm produce has been included in each model and meets staple
grain, milk, egg and meat needs in most cases (exception high value vegetable model). Farm families will
have to draw upon the cash surpluses shown in each model to cover other food and living expenses.
Overhead costs are also included in each model to cover business expenses not readily allocated to
individual crop or livestock enterprises. Such costs are mostly in the range US$1,450 to US$1,800 per
farm and cover electricity, other fuel, land tax and insurance, tractor and equipment services and labor,
not related to individual crop activities.
6.    Very few private farms in Croatia have access to short or long term credit and so the financing
of production inputs in these models follows reality as both without and with project situations 100 per
cent of operating costs are financed by retained farm earnings from the previous year. Incremental
production costs typically lie in the range US$715 to US$2,200 per farm, or a little under half of the
expected gross value of incremental revenue. This is within the capacity of most model farms to finance,
either from without project retained earnings, from off-farm income or by moving to the with project
situation in steps over two or three years.
7.    Each model attempts to meet it's livestock feed needs from on-farm forage and crop production,
in line with usual practice in Croatia. There are exceptions for the vegetable model and some feed
additives and concentrates. Each model represents an individual farm and the with project situation has
not been phased in. The nature of most of the new technology proposed is such (better seeds, additional
fertilizer) that it is likely to be accepted promptly when the benefits are demonstrated clearly.
8.    The following five models are described in more detail below:
* Istria Mixed Farm Model
* Dalmatia Vegetable Farm Model
* Lika Mixed Farm Model
* Slavonija Crop Farm Model
* West Continental Dairy/Beef Farm Model



Project Implementation Plan                    - 143 -                                      ANNEX E
B. SPEcIc
Istria Mixed Farm Model
9.    This model may be applied to farms in the central area of the Istrian peninsular. Farms in this
area have opportunities to supply the local tourist industry and closer commercial ties to neighboring
countries than some other parts of Croatia. The model has a cropped area of 7.1 ha in both project
situations. The with project cropping pattern expands higher return potato and lucerne production and
deletes wheat and maize production so as to avoid large increments in labor or land use. Improved
technology is applied to barley, potato and lucerne production in the with project situation. Istria
traditionally provides hay and forage seeds to adjacent mountain areas and has adequate markets for
increased potato production. Although livestock activities comprise almost half of the gross value of
production no incremental livestock income is assumed, as it focuses on higher value crops.
10.   Family labor requirements increase from 1,220 hours per year to 1,410 hours with project, an
increment of 190 hours. This still leaves a large surplus which can be used in part to gain employment
in the tourist industry.
Dalmatia Vegetable Farm Model
11.   Dalmatia has a successful and expanding vegetable industry in part due to a warmer climate which
enables early harvest and access to high price, out-of-season markets in other parts of Croatia and nearby
countries. One of the main limits to expansion of production is a shortage of irrigation water and
investment to make better use of water is examined separately in the proposed Rural Finance Project. No
such investment is considered in this project. Joint marketing of vegetables is also being explored by
farmers in Dalmatia.
12.   This model has a small farm area of 1.2 ha but has by far the highest net value of production
of any model due to the focus on early tomato and potato crops and other vegetables. There are no
changes of cropping pattern assumed for the with project situation but crop yields are increased by 10
per cent mainly in response to higher fertilizer and manure inputs. Livestock are produced for home
consumption and there are no increments with project.
13.   Incremental family labor with project (to handle larger harvests) is 191 hour per year. Although
there is substantial unused family labor, hired labor is needed to meet seasonal peaks of demand and this
also increases with project, by 33 hours per year.
Lika Mixed Farm Model
14.   Lika is a mountainous area with much pasture land and some emphasis on livestock production.
The proposed Rural Finance Pilot Project includes a specialist sheep production model but this model
looks at changes in a mixed farm with crop, cattle and pig production. The model increases potato and
reduces wheat production with project in response to crop budget financial profitability; additionally dairy
cow numbers are increased from 3 to 4 and cheese making (600 kg per year) is introduced with project.
Financing is discussed in 3.2.3 below. There is a strong demand for local cheeses and the necessary skills
and interest in increasing production are available. Potato and barley yields are increased by about 15
per cent with project in response to use of better seed and more fertilizer.



ANNEX E                                        - 144 -                       Project Implementation Plan
15.   The cropped area is constant at 5.8 ha in both project situations and is below total farm area
of 7.9 ha to allow for rotation and non-arable land.
16.   This model has the greatest increment in family labor input with project, 631 hour per year.
However with project labor is still only about half estimated available labor and most of the increment
is in high value cheese production yielding incremental hourly returns more than double average without
project returns.
Slavonija Crop Farm Model
17.   Slavonija is the major crop production region in Croatia. This model is representative of private
farms which are replacing the Agro-Kombinats as major producers in the region. The cropping pattern
changes with project to reduce sugar beet and maize area and to expand soybean, so as to improve self-
sufficiency in pig feed. Wheat, meadow and barley are constant, as is the total cropped area of 5.3 ha.
Almost half of the crops produced (by value) are used on-farm for livestock production. The model
includes 1 cow, 6 sows and a small poultry activity (no increment with project). Of these, the pig activity
is the main commercial livestock activity; with project weaner pig production increases by about 13 per
cent and ration costs are reduced. Crop yield increases of just under 15 per cent are achieved with better
fertilizer inputs and seeds.
18.   Family labor use in this model is near constant with and without project. The yield increases do
not demand additional labor as harvest is mechanized and the changes in cropping pattern do not create
new labor demands.
West Continental Dairy/Beef Farm Model
19.   This model has four Simmental cows in both project situations. Milk production increases from
2,800 1 to 3,360 1 per cow per year with project. Improved animal health, changed rations and better
genetic material are expected to be accessible through improved extension and veterinary services. The
cropped area remains constant at 4.3 ha but the pattern changes with project. Maize silage and mixed
grass pasture are introduced to boost feed supply with project and maize for grain and the less productive
meadow are reduced slightly. Mixed grass and other improved pastures would be stimulated by project
activities and gradually displace meadow and other unimproved pastures. Further increases in technical
and financial performance are possible, e.g. use of milk replacer for calf rearing or breed changes, and
practical but have not been considered as they are still uncommon in Croatia.
20.   Family labor requirements are virtually the same with and without project and are around 40 per
cent of estimated available labor. There is scope to expand the size of farms of this type but this is not
considered within this project. Increased farm size plus use of milk replacer would have a big positive
impact on milk collection costs and overall dairy industry efficiency.
III. FARM MODEL FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. GENERAL
21.   The farm gate fmancial prices used in this analysis are those which prevailed in the main
production region for each item during March 1995. Minor seasonal adjustments were made and some
averaging was employed where prices differed between main producing regions. All analysis has been



Project Implementation Plan                                       - 145 -                                                         ANNEX  E
completed in constant 1995 DEM; the apparent precision in some prices results from conversion of a
Kuna price quote to DEM at the March 1995 exchange rate. The prices used provide reliable farm gate
values for the expected incremental production. However it is clear that new marketing systems are being
developed and that prices do fluctuate from place to place and time to time.
22.      Each model shows net incremental farm  rmancial benefits which are likely to be attractive to
farmers in relation to the required additional purchased inputs and family labor. The analysis was for a
10 year period and the discount rate was set at 10 per cent. Labor returns in US$ per hour are
maintained or increased with project in each model. There are no additional investments required in the
models beyond the short term funding of crop and livestock inputs. When future financial cash flows are
discounted at 10 per cent, strong NPV's result. Switching values before financing at 10 per cent indicate
that in all models revenues can fall by at least 50 per cent or operating costs increase by at least 100
percent, before NPV falls to zero.
Table E.1: Summary of Results of Financial Analysis
(US$)
Annual Net Cashflow                       Present Value
Model a/                           Farm Size                                                       (at 10 % over 10 years)
Without         With        Incremental
Project        Project
1. Istria Mixed Farm b/              7.1 ha
US$ per Farm                                     1,460           2,810           1,350                  8.400
US$ per Hour Family Labor                           1              2               1                   1,180/ha
2. Dalmatia Vegetable c/              1.2 ha
US$ per Farm                                     26,800         28,900           2,100                  13,100
US$ per Hour Family Labor                          13              13              -                   10,900/ha
3. Lika Mixed Farm d/                5.8 ha
US$ per Farm                                     3,590           6,650           3,060                  18,300
US$ per Hour Family Labor                          2              3.8             1.8                  3,150/ha
4. Slavonija Crop Farmer/            5.3 ha
US$ per Farm                                     5,680           6,520            840                   5,200
US$ per Hour Family Labor                          3.5            4.3             0.8                   980/ha
5. Dairy/Beef Farm f/                4.3 ha
US$ per Farm                                     4,990           6,080           1,090                  6,760
US$ per Hour Family Labor                           3             3.5             0.5                  1,570/ha
a/ These models attempt to quantify the possible impact of improved extensions services and access to quality research and other technical
services supported under the project. Farm size has been held constant between without and with project situations, although there are
changes in cropping pattems with project.
b/ The with project cropping pattem expands higher return potato and lucerne production and deletes wheat and maize production so as to
avoid large increments in labor or land use. Improved technology is applied to barley, potato and luceme production in the with project
situation. Istria traditionally provides hay and forage seeds to adjacent mountain areas and has adequate markets for increased potato
production. Although livestock activities comprise almost half of the gross value of production no incremental livestock income is
assumed, as it focuses on higher value crops. Family labor requirements increase from 1220 hours per year to 1410 hours with project,
an increment of 190 hours. This still leaves a large surplus which can be used in part to gain employment in the tourist industry.
c/ Dalmatia has a successful and expanding vegetable industry in part due to a warmer climate which enables early harvest and access to
high price, out-of-season markets in other parts of Croatia and nearby countries. No irrigation investment is included in this model. This
model has a small farm area of 1.2 ha but has by far the highest net value of production of any model due to the focus on early tomato
and potato crops and other vegetables. There are no changes of cropping pattem assumed for the with project situation but crop yields
are increased by 10 per cent mainly in response to higher fertilizer and manure inputs. Livestock are produced for home consumption
and there are no increments with project. Incremental family labor with project (to handle larger harvests) is 191 hour per year.
Although there is substantial unused family labor, hired labor is needed to meet seasonal peaks of demand and this also increases with
project, by 33 hours per year.



ANNEX E                                                              - 146 -                                    Project Implemertation Plan
d/ Lika is a mountainous area with much pasture land and some emphasis on livestock production. This model looks at changes in a mixed
farm with crop, cattle and pig production. The model increases potato and reduces wheat production with project in response to crop
budget financial profitability; additionally dairy cow numbers are increased from 3 to 4 and cheese making (600 kg per year) is
introduced with project. There is a strong demand for local cheeses and the necessary skills and interest m increasmg production are
available. Pothto and barley yields are increased by about 15 per cent with project in response to use of better seed and more fertilizer.
The cropped area is constant at 5.8 ha in both project situations and is below total farm area of 7.9 ha to allow for rotation and non-
amble land. With project labor is only about half estimated available labor and most of the increment is in high value cheese production
yielding incremental hourly returns nearly double average without project returns.
et Slavonija is the major crop production region in Croatia. This model is representative of private farms which are replacing the Agro-
Kombinats as major producers in the region. The cropping pattern changes with project to reduce sugar beet and maize area and to
expand soybean, so as to improve farm self-sufficiency in pig feed. Wheat, meadow and barley are constant, as is the total cropped area
of 5.3 ha. Almost half of the crops produced (by value) are used on-farm for livestock production. The model includes 1 cow, 6 sows
and a small poultry activity (no increment with project). Of these, the pig activity is the main commercial livestock activity; with project
weaner pig production increases by about 13 per cent and ration costs are reduced. Crop yield increases of just under 15 per cent are
achieved with better fertilizer inputs and seeds. The yield increases do not demand additional labor as harvest is mechanized and the
changes in cropping pattern do not create new labor demands..
f/ This model has four Simmental cows in both project situations. Milk production increases from 2800 1 to 3360 1 per cow per year with
project. Improved animal health, changed rations and better genetic material are expected to be accessible through improved extension
and veterinary services. The cropped area remains constant at 4.3 ha but the pattem changes with project. Maize silage and mixed grass
pasture are introduced to boost feed supply with project and maize for mrain and the less productive meadow are reduced slighdy. Mixed
grass and other improved pastures would be stimulated by project activities and gradually displace meadow and other unimproved
pastures. Further increases in technical and financial performance are possible, e.g. use of milk replacer for calf rearing or breed
changes, and practical but have not been considered as they are stiDl uncommon in Croatia. Family labor requirements are virtually the
same with and without project and are around 40 per cent of estimated available labor. There is scope to expand the size of famis of this
type but this is not considered within this project.
B. SPEcIc
Istria Mixed Farm Model
23.      This model shows a gross incremental annual production value of US$2,740 on a without project
base of US$7,600. The model differs from others in that the increment is mainly achieved through a
change in cropping pattern to focus on more profitable crops, lucerne and potatoes. The net incremental
family benefit of US$1,350 is added to a very low without project base of US$1,460 per year. This is
a realistic description of the without project situation in Istria where many families live on part-time,
casual work in the tourist industry. The net return in US$ per hour of family labor rises from 1 to 2 with
project. No incremental livestock returns are budgeted. Alternative Istrian livestock models could be
developed, provided milk and meat markets are established.
24.      Incremental cash production costs are US$1,360 per year and this would have to be financed in
the first year by off-farm income or phased in over several years. The incremental cash needs are
equivalent to about 3 months employment in the hotel industry for one family member.
25.      The Net Present Value (NPV) before financing at 10 per cent is US$8,400. Switching value
analysis shows that incremental revenues cold be halved or operating costs rise by 101 per cent before
NPV declined to zero. This suggests that the model is robust and capable of absorbing large increases
in costs or medium to large falls in revenue, before returns fall below 10 per cent.
26.      More detailed data on this model is available in Farmod Tables 1-3-1 and 1-5-1 in Annex N  and
on diskette.
Dalmatia Vegetable Farm Model
27.      The improved production practices of this model increase gross value of production by US$3,410
on the very high annual base of US$34,100 without project. Some US$2,910 of the increment is from
vegetable production, with the balance from field crops. After incremental production costs and hired
labor are paid, the net family benefits increase by US$2,100 per year with project, above a base of
US$27,800. This is a small proportional increase but in practice larger increases rely on investment of



Project Implementation Plan                      - 147 -                                       ANNEX E
the type envisaged in the proposed Rural Finance Pilot Project,especially improved irrigation and
additional land. There are good markets available for the range of vegetables in the model, at the times
they are harvested, and farmers are beginning to consolidate shipments. There is a project role in market
infornation, extension support for scheduling plantings to ensure marketable quantities coincide and for
technical advice on crop protection/IPM in particular.
28.   Returns to family labor are high at US$13 per hour both without and with project. This is three
times higher than in the next most remunerative model and this income is reflected in the living standard
of the Dalmatian farmers who have already achieved the with project situation.
29.   Annual incremental cash costs are US$1,280 which is easily within the capacity of a farmer in
the without project situation to fund from retained earnings.
30.   The NPV before financing at 10 per cent (10 years) is US$13,100. Switching values show that
incremental inflows could fall by 63 per cent or incremental operating costs rise by 167 per cent before
the NPV declines to zero. Changes of that size are considered most unlikely, provided proper attention
is paid to marketing.
Lika Mixed Farm Model
31.   Overall net farm family benefits increase from US$3,590 per year without project to US$6,650
with project. This substantial increase is mainly achieved through increased livestock, especially cheese,
production. Cheese making investments are negligible and the process adds about US$870 net per year
to the value of milk otherwise sold fresh. It is appropriate in a region where milk collection costs are
high. The increment in family benefit is proportionally large in this model, as is the required increase
in labor input. Average returns to family labor increase from US$2 to US$3.8 per hour with project.
32.   Additional cash operating costs are US$2,615 per year with project. This is a substantial sum for
a family with a without project cash flow of US$3,580 per year. However milk and cheese returns will
be received monthly (compared to annually for most crops) and this greatly reduces financing needs. The
additional with project cow will be obtained by retention of a calf, with a negative impact of US$395 on
cash flow in the year of retention.
33.   The NPV for net incremental family benefits is US$840. This is the largest of any model and
reflects strong demand for livestock products and the technical opportunities available. Switching values
suggest that incremental revenues can fall by 53 per cent or added operating costs rise by 114 per cent
before NPV is reduced to zero. Such changes are most unlikely in this case.
SlavonUa Crop Farm Model
34.   Net Incremental family benefits in this model are US$840 per year on a base of US$5,680
without project. About 40 to 50 per cent of crop production is used or consumed on-farm, mainly for
pig produc.ion. The with project model seeks to supply superior pig rations from within the farm and
sacrifices some cash return from lower sugar beet production as a result. Given the low economic value
of local sugar beet production, such a change is likely to be forced in the short term and the financial
sacrifice may be apparent rather than real. Most of the increment in family benefit is earned through
higher pig sales and lower unit feed costs. Family labor returns rise from US$3.5 to US$4.3 per hour
with project.



ANNEX E                                         - 148 -                       Project Implementation Plan
35.   The changes in cropping pattern and pig ration mean that there is no increase in cash outflows
to be financed with project.
36.   The NPV before financing is US5,200 and switching values show that incremental inflows would
have to fall by 107 per cent to reduce NPV to zero. Because incremental operating costs are slightly
negative (i.e. with project operating cost is slightly lower than without project), incremental operating
costs would have to increase from minus US$350 to US$4,850 before the NPV return drops to zero.
West Continental Dairy/Beef Farm Model
37.   Net Incremental farm family benefits are US$1,090 on a without project base of US$4,990 per
year. These benefits are derived from improved cow management, health and feeding and some
incremental forage crop sales. Milk yield per cow rises from 3,500 to 4,025 1 per year and this is readily
marketable in north west Croatia. Return to family labor rises from US3 to US3.5 per hour with project.
38.   Incremental cash production costs are US$790 per year. This may be related to without project
annual production costs of US$3,400. Given that milk payments are made monthly rather than
annually, as with crops, most families should be able to fund the incremental cash needs from their own
resources.
39.   The NPV is US$6,760 for incremental family benefits and switching values show that a 58 per
cent fall in incremental inflows or a 140 per cent increase in operating costs would be needed to reduce
NPV to zero. The dairy model is robust but small in scale and could profitably be more than doubled in
size if investment funds were available.
IV. FARM MODEL ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. GENERAL
40.   Annex M presents estimates of economic prices (in terms of nominal protection coefficient -
NPC) for key commodities and inputs: wheat, maize, soybeans, sugar beet, milk and fertilizer. The
reciprocals of the NPC's of Annex M have been used as conversion factors in FARMOD prices to
calculate economic prices for the above items. In all other cases (outputs and inputs) the conversion
factor 1.0 has been used, equating financial and economic prices. For these models the other main
incremental products(not listed above) are meat and vegetables. Croatia currently engages in only small
amounts of international trade in meat and vegetables and there are no major subsidies in place to support
their production. In this situation it seems reasonable to accept a NPC of 1.0. Incremental labor has also
been valued at market price in the economic analysis although it is likely that economic labor value may
be lower in some locations. The five models show a similar distribution of annual economic benefit to
that existing in financial terms: three models are similar in size of without project economic benefit
(-US$1,800 per year) , the Dalmatia Vegetable Model yields benefits more than ten times larger
(US$24,000) and the Istrian model yields a small negative return (-US$190)without project.
41.   All models show positive increments in net economic value of production with project and have
positive economic Net Production Values (NPVs), usually a little lower than the corresponding financial
NPV, at 1995 prices and NPC's. The analysis was for a 10 year period and the discount rate was set
at 10 per cent. As changes in policy are implemented it is likely that production shifts will occur to
further increase the economic value of incremental production. The Slavonija Crop Farm Model is an



Project Implementation Plan                       - 149 -                                        ANNEX E
existing example of a situation in which expected poor economic performance is improved by much of
the incremental production being in the form of pig meat produced by feeding low value grains and by
a reduction in the with project area of the most heavily subsidized crop (i.e., sugarbeet).
Table E.2: Summary of Indicative Economic Analysis
(US$ per Farm)
Net Value of Production (Annual)
Model                                                                            Implicit
Without        With       Incremental   NPV (at 10 %    Fin./Econ.
Project       Project       Value      over 10 years)    NPC (%)
1. Istria Mixed Farm      -190           1,100        1,290         8,100          104
2. Dalmatia Vegetable     24,420        26.350        1,930         12,070         109
3. Lika Mixed Farm         1510          3,870        2,360         14,700         124
4. Slavonija Crop Farm    2,100         3,390         1,290         8,050          65
5. Dairy/Beef Farm        1,990         2,960          970          6,100          111
42.    Simple comparisons between financial and economic increments (such as those in Table E.2) can
be misleading, if used as proxy NPC's. First incremental family labor costs have been deducted by
FARMOD in calculating economic increments but not financial increments. There are big differences
between models in incremental family labor.
B. SPECIFIC
Istria Mixed Farm Model
43.    The Istrian model has a negative economic and low positive financial annual return in the
without project situation. This assessment is supported by the existence of abandoned farms in Istria.
However both the model and farm visits clearly show that economic and financial profitability is feasible,
provided production is focused on higher return crops or livestock activities, especially those related to
the tourist market. This model takes a conservative approach (in that further crop changes towards high
value production could be managed and livestock improvement also included, but these opportunities have
been ignored with project) and shows incremental annual economic benefits of US$1,290 with project
and a NPV of US$8,100 for net economic benefits at 10 per cent over 10 years. The economic and
financial NPV's are similar as most of the incremental production comprises potatoes and forage which
have identical financial and economic prices in the model. Table 1-4-1 in Annex N presents more detailed
data.
Dalmatia Vegetable Farm Model
44.    The Dalmatia model also shows similar economic and financial returns as incremental production
is confined to vegetables with a price conversion factor of 1.0 in the model. The net economic increment
of US$1,930 per year results in a NPV of US$12,070, after incremental family labor of US$280 per



ANNEX E                                        - 150 -                        Project Implementation Plan
year is deducted. This increment is small relative to the without project net economic return of
US$24,420.
Lika Mixed Farm Model
45.   This model yields an economic increment of US$2,360 on a base of US$1,510 without project.
The NPV is US$14,700 the highest of any model. This performance relies in part on the sale of specialty
cheese at full market price with project, compared to the sale of milk (NPC 1.25) without project. The
economic increment is estimated after the deduction of incremental family labor (US$765); the financial
increment is presented as a return to labor. If the financial and economic increments are compared on
a consistent labor basis, they are similar in this model.
Slavonija Crop Model
46.Interpretation of the economic analysis of this model is complex. The economic increment of
US$1,290 exceeds the financial increment of US$840. The increment is earned on a base economic
return of US$2,100 per farm per year. Sugar beet has a large economic loss per ha and the effect of
reducing sugar beet area in the with project situation is to reduce farm returns by US$190 in financial
prices and increase them by US$180 in economic prices, a net difference of US$370 per farm in favor
of the economic increment. Additionally the main production increment is pig meat which has identical
financial and economic prices in this model. The NPV is US$8,050.
West Continental Dairy/Beef Farm Model
47.   The NPV for economic increments in this model is US$6,100. This is based on an annual
increment of US$970 above the without project level of US$1,990. This is slightly below the financial
increment as milk has an NPC of 1.26, although incremental forage sales have equal financial and
economic value in the model. The net economic effect of other changes in the with project case is small.
V. FARM ANALYSIS: CONCLUSION
48.   Financial analysis of the five models indicates that:
* project activities are likely to yield sufficient rmancial benefit to farmers, of the kinds
modelled, to encourage them to participate in or actively use better extension, animal health
services, seeds and market information. Annual financial increments range from a low of 8 per
cent of the high base earnings in Dalmatia to a high of 92 per cent of the low Istrian base.
* in most of the models farmers clearly have the ability to fund incremental short term inputs
from retained earnings, monthly milk payments or pig sales. In the Istrian model it may be
necessary for farmers to fund the added inputs from off-farm work in the tourist industry or by
phasing changes over several years.
* switching values indicate that the models are robust, requiring an increases of more than 100
per cent in operating costs or a fall of more than 50 per cent in incremental inflows to reduce
NPV to zero at 10 percent.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 151 -                                       ANNEX E
* financial benefits may be earned through changes in cropping pattern or livestock
processing/marketing as well as increased technical efficiency.
* there is a substantial surplus of farm labor available on the modelled farms.
* farmers have an ability to pay for useful services, especially where the scale of operation is
large enough to cover overheads and basic living costs or where high value vegetable, cheese
or similar products are involved.
49.    Economic analysis concludes that positive incremental returns are earned in each model, given
the NPC's estimated in Annex M. Even in Slavonija where several common crops have higher NPC's,
the usual practice on private farms is to feed these crops to livestock with strong positive economic and
financial results.
VI. PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
50.   Based on the results of the farm model analysis previously discussed, the following economic
analysis attempts to quantify the project net incremental economic returns. Quantifying the economic
returns of the vast range of project activities including agriculture extension, applied research, animal
health, pasture and fodder development, seed industry development, and agriculture policy support is
notoriously difficult, given the broad range of non-service factors influencing decision making at the farm
level, and uncertainties associated with the translation of improved farm services into economic farn
benefits. The purpose of estimating project returns, therefore, is to verify that the project is broadly
economically viable and robust to changes in project cost and benefits. The following analysis is based
on a number of conservative assumptions discussed below. Economic flows are calculated over a ten year
time horizon, albeit benefits are expected to accrue well beyond the tenth year.
B. PROJECT INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
51.   Project benefits are based only on economic farm returns as identified under the indicative farm
models described above. Many other potential benefits occurring outside the farmn have not been
quantified such as export losses avoided through improved animal disease control, improved export
earnings by the seed subsector in the context of an improved regulatory framework, the possible positive
fiscal impact of a more rational agriculture policy, or improved environmental sustainability through
better extension and research services. Project benefits also exclude the potential positive impact of
improved farm services on the transition of the agro-kombinat sector. Hence, economic returns to this
project may be somewhat underestimated.
52.   In order to obtain economic benefits on a ha basis, the net annual incremental value of production
(in economic terms) of the individual model farms is divided by the area under cultivation by the
respective farm (see Table E.3, columns 1 to 4). The economic benefits on a ha basis, representing the
major farming areas in Croatia are weighted by the share of the respective farming area in overall
agriculture area in the country, resulting in a weighted average net incremental value of production per
ha of arable land, i.e US$385 ha/year (Table E.3, columns 5 and 6). To obtain the potential annual
incremental value of production of private agriculture making full use of project services, this figure is



ANNEX E                                                 - 152 -                            Project Implementation Plan
multiplied by the area of arable land privately farmed (i.e. roughly 1.6 million ha). The actual project
benefits are, however, likely to be realized only by a much smaller share of the private farming
community; in the analysis it is conservatively assumed that only 5 percent of farmers (i.e. some 25,000
out of 500,000 farmers) would reap the full benefit of the project. Total annual project farm benefits are
estimated to be in the order of US$31 million (Table E.3, columns 7 and 8). As agriculture service-
related benefits require time to materialize, it is, again conservatively, estimated that the mentioned
annual benefit stream sets in only in Year 6 of the calculation, i.e. in the second year after project
implementation; no benefits are assumed to accrue during implementation and during the first year after
project implementation (see Table E.4).
Table E.3: Project Incremental Benefits
(5)          (6)          (7)           (8)
(2)         (3)         (4)        Regional     Weighted     Estimated     Estimated
(1)     Net Incr. Value  Farm Size   Net Incr.    Weight of   Average Net   Potential    Actual Total
Farm Model  of Production     (ha)      Value of   Farm Model  Incr. Value    Total Net       Net Inc.
($/fann/year)            Production     in Total   of Production Incr. Benefit el   Benefit I
($/ha/year)  Arable Land  ($/ha/year)  (Smillon/year)  ($million/year)
(%)
Istria Mixed      1,290          7.1        180         20%
Farm
Dalmatia          1,930          1.2      1,600         10%
Vegetable
Lika Mixed        2,360          5.8        400         15%         385           615            31
Farm
Slavonija         1,290          5.3        240         35%
Crop Farm
Dairy/Beef          970          4.3        220         20%
Farm
a/ Column 6 multiplied by 1.6 millon ha of arable land under private ownership
b/ 5 percent of column 7; assumes that 5 percent (or 25,000 farms) benefit fully from the project
C. PROJECT INCREMENTAL COSTS
53.    Project investment and recurrent costs (see Annex B for details), all of which are incremental,
have been included in the analysis net of taxes and duties (i.e. net of transfer payments). Replacement
costs are assumed at a level of 25 percent of total project investment costs, while recurrent costs are
applied in each of the ten years of the analysis equivalent to the level required at full project development.
Project incremental costs are shown in Table E.4 below.
D. PROJECT NET INCREMENTAL BENEFiTS
54.    The net incremental benefit stream for the project based on the described incremental costs and
benefits is given in Table E.4 below. The project yields an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 28 percent.



Project Implementation Plan                             - 153 -                                               ANNEX E
Table E.4: Project Net Incremental Benefits
(US$ million)
Year   Year   Year   Year   Year  Year  Year   Year   Year   Year
1      2       3      4       5      6      7       8      9       10
Incremental cost
- Investment costs aI/         5       5      5       5      5      5      5        5      5        5
- Recurrent costs              2       2      2       2      2      2      2        2      2        2
Incremental benefits           -       -      -       -       -    31    31        31    31        31
IncrementalNet Benefits       -7      -7    -7       -7    -7    24       24      24      24       24
a/  includes annual replacement costs in years 5 - 10 amounting to 25 percent of total project investment cost
E. SENsrnviTY ANALYSIS
55.    In order to test the sensitivity of project returns to variations in costs and benefits, major
parameters have been varied as indicated in Table E.5 below. The ERRs indicate that project returns are
robust to significant increases in costs and decreases benefits (20 percent respectively). A 20 percent
decrease in benefits could occur from a reduced number of farmers being reached by the various support
services (i.e. 20,000 farmers rather than 25,000 farmers in the base case). Only when cost increase and
benefits decrease by 20 percent and benefits lag by one year does the project become economically
unviable. The likelihood of the three events occurring jointly is considered low.
Table E.5: Project Sensitivity Analysis
Changes to Base Case                                 ERR
1. Project cost increase by 20% ..................... . ....... ..... 22%
2. Project benefits decrease by 20%  ................... . .......  ..... 20%
3. Project benefits decrease by 40%  ................... . .......  ..... 13%
4.Cost increase and benefits decrease by 20% ............. . ....... ..... 15%
5. Project benefits lag by one year  ................... . .......  ..... 19%
6. Cost increase and benefits decrease by 20% and benefits lag by one year . ......  6%



ANNEX E                                       - 154 -                      Project Implementation Plan
Table E.6: Comparison of Yields and Inputs With and Without Project
Yield (kg/ha)            Fertilizer (kg/ha)
Household & Crop Model   Without    With              Without       With
Project    Project         Project     Project
1. Istria
Wheat                    3300         --               190         --
Maize                    2800       2800               102        102
Barley                   3000       3600               120       305
Potato                  12000      14400                --         --
Lucerne Hay              4000       6750               150       750
Lucerne Seed                0        270                --         --
Dairy Cow (1)            2300       2300                --         --
2. Dalmatia
Early Tomato            25000      27500               560       1220
Leek                    33000      36960               560       1200
Early Carrot            30000      33000               690       1460
3. Lika Mixed
Wheat                    2500         --               200         --
Barley                   3000       3480               200       220
Potato                  13000      15080               450       500
Dairy Cow (1)            2050       2460                --         --
4. Slavonija
Wheat                    5600       6384               250       650
Barley                   5400       6156               225       570
Maize                    6000       6840               255       650
Sugar Beet              40000      45600               380       950
Soybean                  1800       2052               175       425
5. Dairy/Beef
Wheat                    3500       4025               110       280
Maize Grain              4800       5520               200       500
Maize Silage                --    40000                 --       590
Dairy Cow (1)            2800       3360                --         --



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FARMERS SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX F
PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.        According to World Bank rules, an Environmental Analysis (EA) is required prior to the
implementation of the "Farmer Support Services Project" (FSSP). The Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) of the Republic of Croatia assigned this task to an expert team competent in EA
questions, consisting of Mr. Ferdo Basic Ph.D., Mr. Zoran Griic Ph.D. - Faculty of Agronomy,
University of Zagreb, and Ms. Visnja Jelic-Muck B.Sc., State Directorate for Environment Protection.
2.        The team reviewed the project documentation to identify potential positive or negative impacts
of FSSP on environment. The EA task can be summarized into a few objectives:
* To assess the actual environmental situation, before FSSP implementation, and to
identify potential direct and indirect impacts on the environment; and
*  To review the existing legislation as it relates to the use of agrochemicals, fertilizers,
animal feed stuffs and veterinary drugs.
3.       It is important to point out that FSSP is, according to the World Bank regulations, a category
B project which means that it has a limited impact on the environment.
4.        The activities to be implemented under the FSSP have a great importance for the promotion
and recognition of ecologically sustainable management of Croatian national resources.
5.       In implementing this project, no negative environmental impacts are expected. It is realistic
to expect that the effects of some project components will strengthen the notion of sustainable agriculture
which combines technologies, policies and activities aimed at integrating socioeconomic principles with
environmental concerns so as to simultaneously: maintain or enhance production, minimize risk of
diminished food production, protect natural resources and prevent degradation of soil and water quality,
all with a view to being economically viable and socially acceptable.
6.        This EA does not propose a specific mitigation plan (nor does it cost mitigation efforts)
because no direct negative environmental impacts are anticipated in the context of implementing this
project. However, as a crucial mitigation activity during the first year of project implementation, MAF
would develop special ('best practice') guidelines for its extension service and the farming community
in support of the concept and practices of sustainable agriculture and appropriate handling of agriculture
chemicals.



* -.A  F                                        - 156 -                       Project Implementation Plan
A major contribution to the development of these best practice guidelines can be expected
rern the findings of the on-going project on 'Proper Handling of Pesticides and their Residues in
.4gr^iculture Practice" managed by the Agency for Special and Dangerous Waste.
In addition, MAF will organize an  "International Workshop on Water Pollution and
Protection in Agriculture Practices" in Zagreb, in October, 1995. This workshop will be organized in the
framework of the new international project on "Pollution of Ground and Surface Water by Nitrates,
Heavy Metals and Pesticides through Percolation from Agriculture Areas" which has been suggested by
Croatia and accepted by the Third Session of the FAO/ECE Working Party on Relations between
Agriculture and Environmnent, held in Geneva in 1994.
9.        In presenting the Environmental Analysis, we want to emphasize the suggestions made by the
Deputy Ministers, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Vlado Bicanic and Dr. Stjepan Tanic. We
take this opportunity to express our appreciation for their cooperation.
[l, EXISTING STATE OF ENVIRONMENT, REGIONAL STRUCTURE AND OWNERSHIP
0.       The heterogeneity of agro-ecological conditions in Croatia suggests regional differences in
structure of agriculture, level and direction of its development, and, accordingly, the state of the
environment. Project implementation will also affect the various agro-ecological environments in
different ways.
11.      The major impact of agriculture in general on the environment is on agricultural land and
water resources. That is why the review of the environment situation is based on agricultural regions.
Tlhere are pedological characteristics, geo-morphological (soil type) and geo-lithological (climate) features,
all contributing to a characterization essential for crop and livestock production.
I2        No reliable national database exists which would assist project designers, and implementing
agencies in assessing the extent and importance of issues such as risky soil management practices, narrow
crop rotation, soil erosion, persistent herbicide use, and the intensity of agriculture inputs, given the
complete lack of systematic research in these and related fields. Therefore, the statements made below,
though important, should be viewed more as a descriptive assessment without a systematic empirical
basis. These judgments are inferred from occasional and isolated small-scale research work undertaken
in the past which should be seen as descriptive indicators rather than quantification of a prevailing
situation in a given agricultural region.
A. ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS IN AGRICULTURAL REGIONS OF CROATIA
:. iAgricultural area in Croatia is composed of three regions, and smaller agro-ecological
subregions (See Figure F. 1)
Pannonian Region
14.       This region comprises the largest share (54.2%) of Croatian territory, and it is the most
Xvaluable agricultural region in the state. Known as the Pannonian plane, the region can be distinguished
into four subregions, with corresponding particularities.



Project Implementation Plan                             - 157 -                                              AN NEX 
AGRICULTURAL REGIONS
OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
t;*~~~ P2 
2
PANONIAN REGION
*  P, - eastern panonian subregion           2
*  P. central panonian subregion    \I.
M  P, - western panonian subreglon
Cl P. - north-west panonlan subregion
MOUNTAIN REGION
*  G, - perymountain subregiorq                      _
C  G, - mountain subregion
MEDITERRANEAN REGION
*  M, - northem mediterranean subregion
* M, - central medIterranean subregion
*  M, - southem mediterranean subregion
PI - Eastern Panonian Subregion
15.        This subregion is distinctly crop area in nature. Dominant crops are wheat, maize, sugar
beet, soybean and sunflower in the plains, and exceptionally valuable vineyard plantations on the hilly
areas. In this subregion, the largest concentration of production lies in the ex-social sector, where highly
intensive agricultural production has been applied, especially with respect to crop production (less so for
livestock production) and predominantly in the form of semi-liquid manure. For more than five decadec..
farmyard manure has not been used. There has been a process of anthropogenic soil degradation arisinP
from the intensive farming primarily on ex-social sector farms resulting in:
*  anthropogene soil compaction;
*  herbicide deposition (especially atrazin), due to narrowed crop rotation, especially v ir0-
respect to maize;
*  decreased humus content; and
*   soil erosion by wind and water
16.        There are also noted occurrence of subsurface water contamination by nitrates and
eutrophication of water flows. It is expected that the average private household acreage will increase as
the ownership structure changes in favor of private ownership.   Increased investments in irriga;io,n
systems in the future which are, however, outside the scope of the activities supported by FSSP ul ill
enable more intensive crop cultivation (especially vegetables) as well as secondary crop cultivation



ANNEX F                                           - 158 -                         Project Implementation Plan
17.       An essentially different and more favorable situation is that of fragmented private farms,
where traditional production is practiced, with high share of livestock production and common use of
farmyard manure. Processes of soil degradation have not been registered, except in cases of wind and
water erosion.
P2 - Central Pannonian Subregion
18.       The production structure in this subregion is dominated by intensive crop farming in the
plains, and on all slopes (hill-sides). Vineyard and livestock production is particularly prevalent in the
south. The ex-social sector is not extensive and fragmented private farms dominate. Crop production
is pervasive with some orchard and vineyard production. In relation to the previous subregion, there is
a growing trend in the use of livestock and farmyard manure. Favorable conditions and a prospective
development exists for vegetable growing, with irrigation.
19.       On soils among the ex-social sector, the processes of anthropogenetic soil degradation is
registered, whereas soil among the private sector is considerably more preserved, owing to a higher
importance of livestock production and integrated farming.   Relief is more complex here, as soil
structure is unstable and more vulnerable to erosion by water, compounded also with a high share of
maize in crop rotation. That is why particular attention should be given to soil conservation.
P3 - Western Pannonian Subregion
20.       In this subregion, private, fragmented households clearly predominate. Livestock production
is developed to the extent that the support from grazing stock is necessary. Consequently, a significant
and untapped potential exits for development of sheep- and goat-breeding. The basic direction for
investment has to be into irrigation and drainage for vegetable growing, and considering that the soil is
mainly acidic, it should be taken into account that liming needs to carried out regularly to correct the
acidic soil. Extraordinarily favorable conditions exist for fruit-and wine growing development as well.
21.       One of the ecologically questionable management practices on soils in this subregion is
narrow crop rotation in favor of maize, which stimulates erosion, and for which increasing herbicide use
is regularly used, contributing to a high persistence in soil, such as in the case of atrazin.
22.       Within this subregion there are also concentrated sources of emission of different ecologically
risky substances, such as industrial plants in Zagreb, ironworks and petroleum refinery in Sisak and food-
processing industries in Vrbovec and Koprivnica.
P4 - Northwestern Pannonian Subregion
23.       Clearly dominated by private and exceptionally fragmented households, this subregion's
arable crop production is oriented towards feed stuff production. An ecologically doubtful management
practice here is the high share of maize production within the crop rotation. This is compounded by high
rainfalls in Spring combined with a period of black fallow soil, and also because crop stands are too thin
to cover and protect the soil.
24.       Soils in this region require conservation measures such as in drainage in the Varazdin region
and irrigation in the Medjimurie region. In addition, the especially valuable use of liming is implemented
regularly and systematically. This area is very densely populated and households are highly fragmented.
The social sector is negligibly small.



Project Implementation Plan                          - 159 -                                           ANNEX F
Mountain Region
25.        This region comprises 14.2%  of the total area, and involves the thinly populated Pery
Mountain and Pery Mountain subregions. Mainly wooded areas with little agricultural land, traditional
and extensive production exists only on private and poor households. Soil is completely preserved from
any form of degradation or damage, except natural erosion. The virgin nature has crystal-clear and
beautiful rivers which are of an exceptional quality for irrigation.
GI - Pery Mountain Subregion
26.        Production capabilities of this area are potentially huge, but totally unused.  Especially
favorable conditions exist for the development of livestock production, indeed for all forms of ecological
agriculture. Almost without exception, soils require liming, and drainage in water-carrying valleys as
well. A possible vegetable production orientation would require irrigation, for which extraordinary
conditions exist here. Potential hydroelectric development among the pristine rivers would open the way
for irrigation.
G2 - Mountain Subregion
27.        This subregion is mountainous, built mostly of Mesozoic limestones and dolomite of high
cleanliness. Silicate sandstone and metamorphic rocks are also present. The subregion is characterized
by a mountain climate, with great amounts of precipitation causing erosion and acidification. A frost-free
period is short, so the selection of crops is narrowed to those resistant to a very unfavorable climate
conditions, like rye and potato. Favorable conditions exist for production of seed-potato which could be
produced in quantities exceeding Croatian needs and merit further attention. Beside investments in
irrigation, there is need to finance agro-technical soil melioration, particularly calcification.
28.        Private ownership is fragmented, with a prevailing orientation towards livestock production,
particularly sheep- and goat-breeding. Given the clear beautiful rivers, the national park of the Plitvice
Lakes located in this area, as well as botanical preserves and natural gardens, conditions are exceptionally
favorable for tourism.
Mediterranean Region
29.        This region comprises 31.6% of Croatia's coastal area and islands, and is quite diverse in soil
and climate characteristics.
MI - Northern Mediterranean Subregion
30.        This subregion involves the northern coastal area and north littoral islands. It differs from
other subregions in that it has a relatively large soil area on a flysh deposit subject to erosion to a serious
degree. Efficient soil protection is a precondition to any agricultural production in this area.
31.        Soils of this subregion are highly productive, given the favorable climatic conditions (warm
temperatures), and a valuable substratum for agricultural production, particularly with regard to
Mediterranean crops such as olives, grapes, almonds, peaches, nectarines, mandarins, and also high
quality vegetables, for which irrigation would, however, be necessary.



ANNEX F                                             - 160 -                         Project Implementation Plan
32.        Private farms are small and fragmented, and use of the high production potentials is minimal.
A basic limiting factor is unfavorable distribution of rainfall and the typical summer droughts. Any
investment here would have to include irrigation for which there is enough water.
M2 - Central Mediterranean Subregion
33.        This region includes the central part of the coast, with continental background and the
belonging islands. It is this area that exemplifies the traditionally developed agriculture such as wine-
growing, fruit-growing, vegetable-and flower-growing both on fields and in glass-houses.
34.        It is expected that investments to ameliorate irrigation systems will take place. The ex-social
sector is relatively highly represented in this area. The typical, geomorphological units, so-called Karst
field, with its deep and productive soil, is extremely drained. These are usually flooded during the
autumn and winter period and in summer period without rain, the water level falls into Karst subsurface.
Because Karst areas are especially sensitive, usage of agro-chemicals has to be extremely rational and of
the mobile variety. Persistent pesticides must be avoided, with regard to quantity and timing. Adversely,
use of persistent pesticides might come to contaminate soil and waters of the area, with serious
consequences for a even wider area. Agriculture production in the wider area of Vransko Lake deserves
particular attention, especially considering the different potential uses of such a valuable water resource.
M3 - Southlern Mediterranean Subregion
35.        Ex-social sector representation is negligible in this subregion. More common are small
privately-owned plots. Common Mediterranean crops are mandarins, olives, figs, but also peaches, and
cherries and all kinds of vegetables and flowers on fields and in sheltered areas (glass-houses). A
c.ommon characteristic of all products from this area is their high quality. Investments are necessary,
inter alia, in irrigation, and special importance should also be given to island revitalization.
36.        Specially valuable and ecologically sensitive units within this subregion is the river and valley
of Neretva, where fertile soil can be found, along with plenty of sunny days, the Mediterranean climate,
and plenty of high-quality water. Skilled and hardworking farmers there practice very intensive growing
of all Meditecranean crops such as mandarins, vine and vegetables. Because of regular usage of large
quantities of various agrochemicals, there are some signs of disturbances in the locally sensitive
ecosystems.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES BY OWNERSHIP
37.        Applied cultivation operations in Croatian agriculture have influenced, inter alia, soils and
water. The direction and intensity of that influence is sharply different with regard to farm ownership;
there are negative influences on soil and water in the ex-social sector, while there is little or no negative
influence among the private sector.
38.        Again, due to the absence of reliable data it is not possible to provide a full quantified
assessment within the scope of this EA of the impact of different farm types as well as the impact of the
project on environmental conditions.



Project Implementation Plan                         - 161 -                                          ANNEX F
Ex-social Sector
39.        With regard to soils within the ex-social sector, all intensive agricultural operations have been
carried out, involving usage of large quantities of agrochemicals (mineral fertilizers, pesticides, esp.
herbicides including those of the atrazin group), and processes of anthropogene soil and subsurface water
degradation have been registered. Among these are:
Anthropogenic soil compaction and structural damage due to:
* overtillage, using heavy machinery;
* tillage in improper moisture conditions; and
* unfavorable changes of organic matter regime (lack of soil structure forming and
stabilizing agents).
Decrease of humus content and humus quality due to
*  improper recycling of organic residues;
*  lack of organic fertilizers; and
*  soil acidification (leaching, mineral and liquid fertilizers, acidic depositions, air
pollution), and biological degradation (undesirable changes in microbial populations:
total number, species, activity).
Soil and water pollution due to:
*  absorbed and insoluble P compounds transported by surface runoff directly to surface
water result in increasing eutrophication and unfavorable changes in the aquatic
ecosystems;
*  nitrate pollution of subsurface water caused by liquid manure application and
irrational or improper N fertilizer application not adequately selected for the crop
requirement (nutrient uptake), soil properties, and weather conditions, time of
application, etc.; and
*  pesticides and other organic chemicals pollution;
40.        Soil erosion (strong surface runoff, lack of permanent cover of crops, steep slopes, heavy
rainfall but limited infiltration), implies considerable loss of organic matter and plant nutrients, silting
of waterways, canals, and reservoirs, and increases the cost of more frequent cleaning and increasing
hazards of water logging and floods in the lower parts of the watershed.
Private Sector
41.        The practice of integrated, extensive production and greater coverage of livestock is the
reason why soil conditions are much better among private farms. Nevertheless, on some soils of private
households, the process of intensive erosion had been registered, particularly in the northwestern
Pannonian subregion, as well as in the complete Mediterranean area. Besides natural factors, one reason
for this situation is the unfavorable orientation of plots and plowing up and down the slope. In addition,
erosion is aggravated by the mix of main crops, especially when the rotation includes maize.
42.        Deposition of herbicides in these zones accumulates in the mountain base, leaching into the
water flows, which in turn causes water pollution. These pesticide residues lead to water eutrophication
among the water flows. Water pollution by nitrates also appears on sites where large quantities of poultry
manure are used on the acid, drained, light, gravely soils of northwestern Croatia.



ANNEX F                                          - 162 -                       Project Implementation Plan
III. POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON ENVIRONMENT
A. STARTING POINT
43.       The Farmer Support Services Project is conceived to involve agricultural research,
agricultural extension, animal health services, fodder and pasture development, seed industry development
(through institutional and regulatory development), and strengthen MAF's policy formulation capacities.
Since the Croatian private sector has historically been an avid supporter of ecologically sustainable
agricultural production, progress in these fields will strengthen the future development of sustainable
agriculture.
44.       No negative environmental impacts are expected in the course of FSSP implementation. It
is realistic to expect that the effects of some project components will strengthen the notion of sustainable
agriculture which combines technologies, policies and activities aimed at integrating socioeconomic
principles with environmental concerns so as to simultaneously: maintain or enhance production,
minimize risk of diminished food production, protect natural resources and prevent degradation of soil
and water quality, all with a view to being economically viable and socially acceptable.
45.       This EA does not propose a specific mitigation plan (nor does it cost mitigation efforts)
because no direct negative environmental impacts are anticipated in the context of implementing this
project. However, as a crucial mitigation activity during the first year of project implementation, MAF
would develop special ('best practice') guidelines for its extension service and the farming community
in support of the concept and practices of sustainable agriculture and appropriate handling of agriculture
chemicals.
46.       A major contribution to the development of these best practice guidelines can be expected
from the findings of the on-going project on "Proper Handling of Pesticides and their Residues in
Agriculture Practice" managed by the Agency for Special and Dangerous Waste.
47.       In addition, MAF will organize an  "International Workshop on Water Pollution and
Protection in Agriculture Practices" in Zagreb, in October, 1995. This workshop will be organized in the
framework of the new international project on "Pollution of Ground and Surface Water by Nitrates,
Heavy Metals and Pesticides through Percolation from Agriculture Areas" which has been suggested by
Croatia and accepted by the Third Session of the FAO/ECE Working Party on Relations between
Agriculture and Environment, held in Geneva in 1994.
B. EXPECTED TRENDS
48.       It cannot be forgotten that private farmers have historically been economically discriminated
against. Providing new economic power will lead to possible trends toward intensification of agricultural
production. Due to a certain "hunger in agrochemicals application" an unfavorable "polarization"
tendency in agrochemicals application may occur under two possible scenarios:
Scenario A:  Better soil - rich farmer - higner rate of agrochemical (in spite of the possible
lower requirements) - better nutrient status of soil - overdosage
Scenario B:  Poor soil - poor farmer - lower rate of agrochemicals (in spite of the possible
higher requirements) - lower nutrient supply of soils - underdosage



Project Implementation Plan                      - 163 -                                        ANNEX F
49.       Certain new dangers may present themselves as new agricultural land users are motivated to
realize as high a profit as possible in the short term. The short-term market-oriented production of land
users may lead to environmental damager because of the lack of necessary (and sometimes expensive)
preventive measures, especially in cases when harmful side-effects are detectable only one or two years
later or when they appear in the surrounding environment (nitrate pollution, acidification).
50.       Project implementation opens the way to a trend to overdosage under Scenario A (the
"maximum concept" principle), which, if the problem does not get sufficient attention, may cause various
environmental damages:
*  soil acidification;
*  contamination of drinking water resources by nitrate leaching;
*  accumulation of harmful toxic elements in the various stages of the "food chain".
51.       However, project implementation also opens a set of desirable processes and effects, which
will undoubtedly result positively on the environment. In the first place, FSSP finances research work
which seeks to define optimal management practices in agriculture. Secondly, Extension Service activities
are financed to provide accurate and professional information about all aspects of ecologically risky
management practices. In order to achieve this objective MAF would develop "Best Practices" Guidelines
for its extension service on the concept and practice of sustainable agriculture and on the handling of
agriculture chemicals.
52.       In addition, privatization will increase ownership feeling and more care for maintaining long-
run soil fertility and sustaining the environment. A private household, especially a family farm, allows
for much more flexibility in sustainable agriculture. Market forces and EU integration will orient
production towards quality standards and environmental aspects in general; such a concept will be a
guiding principle in the professional advice provided by the Extension Service.
53.       The FSSP is to a large extent focused on institutional strengthening and development.
Individual components are anticipated to have a beneficial impact on the environment as follows:
(i)  the  Agriculture  Extension  Component would  enhance  the  dissemination  of
environmentally relevant knowledge through the special guidelines developed by MAF
from international and national research;
(ii)  the Applied Agriculture Research Component would allow the investigation of pressing
environmental issues related to agriculture;
(iii)  the Animal Health Component would ensure a better control of contagious and zoonotic
diseases;
(iv)  the Pasture and Fodder Development Component would contribute to better erosion
control, landscape management (reduction of maize monoculture), and more animal-
friendly husbandry practices;
(v)  the Seed Industry Development Component would by improving the regulatory
framework ensure better and more rapid access to new, disease and pest resistant plant
genetic materials already available abroad which would enhance low input practices in
crop management; through the establishment of the National Seed Authority agrochemical



ANNEX F                                          - 164 -                       Project Implementation Plan
testing and registration as well as the development of integrated pest management (IPM)
practices would be integrated into one institution thus ensuring efficient development of
regulations and procedures.
(vi)  the Policy Analysis Support Component would increase MAF's capability to follow actual
developments related to environmental issues in the agricultural sector and concerns of
decision makers in view of including these issues into appropriate legislation.
C. LAND MANAGEMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE
54.       The development of Croatian agriculture to increase food and agricultural production while
meeting unsatisfied demand and recognizing the need to use environmentally friendly technologies will
carry forward into the 21st century. The main "pillars" and principles of Sustainable Land Development
(SLM)-Productivity, Security, Protection, Viability and Acceptability-(according to a Discussion
Paper of the Land and Water Development Division of FAO) are fully compatible with Croatian
conditions. It is clear that sustainable land management needs to be in the center of environmentally
sound sustainable agriculture.
55.       Implementation of FSSP will open the way to scientifically-based crop production
technologies, in particular with regard to: adequate crop rotation, integral plant nutrition systems
including plant residue management and integrated pest management system. In other words, FSSP by
our judgment opens the way to knowledge-based instead of high input-based agriculture.
56.       Experts of the extension service will need to keep in mind that quality of surface and
subsurface water resources and protection of the environment are required for the long-term sustainability
of agriculture. We consider that ideas expressed through the FSSP would support this concept. Criteria
of sustainable agricultural development and crop production would need to be defined and quantified in
the context of the aforementioned Extension Guidelines.
IV. SUMMARY STATUS OF ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
57.       Environmental legislation in the Republic of Croatia is not yet formed as a uniform and
systematic body of laws. However, since individual parts of this legislation are covered by laws on water
protection, agricultural land protection, forest protection etc., and these parts have a long tradition and
have been systematically developed, environmental legislation could be considered complete as a
combination of theses laws and on a regulatory level. Some parts of environment legislation are
developed on a sectoral basis (water-management, agriculture, forestry etc.).
58.       Generally, Croatian environmental legislation is characterized by the following features:
*  a variable degree of development of some parts of the legislation through a number
of bodies directly responsible for development, monitoring and implementation, and
inefficiency in enforcement and control;
*  the general character of legislation is mainly guiding, partly resulting in inefficient
implementation, and less of a restricting and obligatory nature; and



Project Implementation Plan                       - 165 -                                          ANNEX F
a strong legal activity related to changing the present and setting new regulations
based on constitutional prescriptions, (i.e., a need to harmonize with new social and
economic orientation of the Republic of Croatia), which means introducing modern
legislation solutions.
59.       The approach practiced in solving environmental questions is based on a broader, integrated
approach characterized by a long positive tradition of multidisciplinary work and intersectoral co-
operation, which is based not on regulations, but rather on experience. It has to be noted that, in former
Yugoslavia, issues of environment protection had been solved at the republic level, so that in the Republic
of Croatia there was continuity in improving the activities of environment protection, particularly since
the beginning of 1970s, and environment legislation had involved regulations set in the period from 1949
to present day.
60.       It can be expected that projects such as FSSP will positively influence the process of
completing and strengthening environmental legislation.
V. RELEVANT LEGISLATION FOR FSSP IMPLEMENTATION
61.       Central elements of environmental protection are covered by the Constitution of the Republic
of Croatia from 1990 which stipulates that: (i) the environment is under special protection by the State;
(ii) citizens right to a healthy life and a healthy environment are guaranteed; and (iii) citizens' right to
local self-government involves also the right to make decisions on environment protection and
improvement.
62.       The Declaration on Environment Protection in the Republic of Croatia (MN 34/92) is oriented
toward "an agriculture based on economically sustainable development...., and imposes:
"...rational soil management as an important measure, with the purpose of food
production; to be achieved by applying strong protection, by prohibiting the
reallocation of highly productive soils to non-agricultural use, especially building
purposes; by improving the lower categories of soil; by encouraging agricultural
production on fallow areas and by strictly controlling pesticide use as well as
other substances for plan protection, respectively..."
63.       Law on Environment Protection (MN982/94) prescribes a common starting point for
systematic actions in the field of environmental protection, and represent legislative starting point from
which legal solutions of particular environmental issues arise. This law consists of basic principles of
environment protection, determines creation of documents, the ways and means of implementing
environmental protection (standards, environmental impact assessment, monitoring, pollution cadastre,
information system, etc.), responsibility, control and penalties. As such, practical issues are solved
mainly by other laws and regulations.
64.       Law on Trade of Poisons (NN 53/91, 26/93, 37/94), determines a list of prohibited and
permitted poisons, classification of poisons in six classes (I to VI) and procedures for the trade of these
poisons. A new law is currently in the legislative process and is expected to be passed by Parliament
soon. The new law proposal has been developed in accordance with the WHO standards, details of which
will be further governed by new, additional regulations.



ANNEX F                                           - 166 -                         Project Implementation Plan
65.       Law on Production. Trade and Use of Poison (NN 20/83, 47/89, 26/93, 37/94) regulates the
production of poisons and provides detailed regulations for the trade and use of poisons which are
permitted by the Law on Trade of Poisons. According to this law, the production and use of poison may
be prohibited in spite of its proper application, if it is found that it endangers the health and life of people
or damages the environment. Each plant pesticide is required to pass a prescribed procedure to obtain
permission for trade and use which is based on a number of tests as prescribed in the regulations.
66.       Law on Water (MN 53/90, 9.91, 61.91, 43/93, 75/93. 75/94), amongst other, regulates issues
of water supply, preventive water protection from pollution, and measures for decreasing water
contamination, including designing water-management plans, issuing of water-management permits,
control and penalties.
67.       Law on Spatial Planning (MN 30.94). Spatial planning arrangements have a long tradition
in the Republic of Croatia. Total space of the state - its purpose, use and conditions for protection are
determined by the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Croatia (MN 12/89) and spatial plans of municipalities.
Spatial plans are created as coordinating documents involving all basic elements of sectoral development
- for example, water-management plans, forest-management plans, traffic plans etc. All operations in
space are carried out exclusively on the basis of such spatial plans.
68.       Law on Agricultural Land (MN 54/94,  65/94).  This law prescribes basic terms of
protection, usage and reallocation of agricultural land, use over state-owned agricultural land, and control
and penalties.
69.       Law on Plant Protection (MN 10/94. 19/94) regulates in detail the protection of plants and
plant products from pests, plant health control, transport of pesticides and prevention of negative
consequence of their use on humans, animals and environment, including control and penalties.
70.       Law on livestock production improvement measures (MN 11/79, 26/93) and Law on animal
health protection and veterinary activities (MN 52/91, 26/93) determine a general framework for the
improvement of livestock production and for systematic animal health protection, (i.e., veterinary
activities).
71.       Inspection control. The public inspection activities are prescribed by a broad range of laws.
Part of the control and monitoring of FSSP implementation is carried out by environmental protection
inspection, agricultural inspection, water management inspection, veterinary inspection, plant-protection
inspection, town-planning inspection, construction inspection, and sanitary inspection.
72.       The Republic of Croatia is a signatory member to a number of international conventions on
the protection of the environment such as (i) Protocol on the Mediterranean Protection from Continental
Pollution (Barcelona Convention Protocol) regarding the Adriatic part of Croatia; (ii) Convention on the
Cooperation on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the River Danube; and (iii) Convention on
Biological Diversity Protection, which have legal precedence over national law.
73.       Regulation on the study of Environmental Impact Assessment (MN 31/84). Regulations
require an EIA for the food-processing industry, livestock and poultry farrms capacities over 500 heads,
slaughter-houses capacities over 50 head and tanneries.
74.       Law on Nature Protection (MN 30/94, 72/94) prescribes procedures for obtaining licenses
for construction works and other works on non-construction locations.



Project Implementation Plan                         - 167 -                                          ANNEX F
75.        Regulations based on the Law on Water govern: (i) dangerous and harmful substances which
cannot be flowed or get into the water, or deposited on areas where the possibility of water pollution
exists, except under prescribed terms; water classification and categorization; terms to determine the
zones of sanitary source protection and protective measures - (Regulation on water categories [MN
15/81]); (ii) Regulations on maximal permitted concentration of danger substances in waters and coastal
see (2/84), Regulation on protective measures on terms for determining the sanitary protection variation
of fresh water sources (MN 22/86), Plan for protection of water from pollution (MN 22/86), Instruction
on record keeping on frequency of emissions of dangerous and harmful substances, their quantities and
composition, to the waters (MN 22/86).
76.        Regulations on agricultural land protection for contamination with harmful substances (MN
15/92) regulate the content of ecologically risky substances allowed, and determines how many and when
the manure can be used. The maximum tolerated contaminant content is determined by the Rule Book
on Agricultural Soil Conservation.
77.        Legislation regarding management of chemicals involves chemicals for plan protection (I I
regulations), mineral fertilizers (4 regulations) and veterinary drugs (4 regulations). These regulations
govern the protection from harmful impacts on human environment, classifications and registration,
information requirements and transport. Regulations of major importance are:
*  Law on quality, quality control an distribution of mineral fertilizers (MN 43/93)
* Regulations on Fertilizer Register and Fertilizer Declaring (MN 43/92)
*  Regulations on minimal and maximal substances and other characteristics of
particular sorts of mineral fertilizers (MN 43/92)
*  Set of sub-legal provisions regulates food protection issues - from animal control and
control of animal products, to the quality of certain kinds of food products.
78.        A modern environmental monitoring system is currently being developed encompassing all
the existing data bases, information and related services. It is a long-term project developed by the State
Directorate of Environment in cooperation with many other ministries and services envisaged to be
developed in accordance with international monitoring networks. The concept of this project is to obtain
an integrated and decentralized monitoring system. Presently, data on air, soil and water are made
available by numerous different administrative bodies, services and institutions.
79.        From  the above summary of the existing laws and regulations, the following could be
concluded with regard to the implementation of FSSP:
*  existing provisions have more of a guiding than a restrictive role;
*  the restrictions are mostly related to land use and development of a particular area,
and to some extent to the application of chemicals;
80.        Estimates of air, water and soil contamination for larger urban centers (Zagreb, Rijeka, Sisak,
Kutina)' and estimates of harmful substances emission from agriculture are carried out and generally
1/   Controlling and information cadastre system of polluters (NISO) by State Directorate of Environment.



ANNEX F                                           - 168 -                         Project Implementation Plan
analyzed based on produced quantities of fertilizers, consumption of fuel and lubricant for agricultural
machines, emission of harmful substances from fertilizer plants and share in liquid waste. Continuous
monitoring of harmful substances emission into the environment and of impacts caused by agricultural
production at the national level in Croatia still does not exist. According to the soil monitoring, created
within the working group for soil protection in Alps-Adria and Danube basin countries, the permanent
"monitoring" of soil, will be carried out in Croatia with the purpose of monitoring the essential soil
characteristics, particularly natural contents, anthropogene influence and ecological risky substances
balance. Soil monitoring and analysis will be carried out using standardized methods in all member-
states, which provides coordination in soil protection measures.
81.       The general environmental situation in Croatia is deemed to be satisfactory.  Some
environmental contamination, in some cases above European and World standard limits, are registered
in highly industrialized and urban areas (Zagreb, Rijeka, Sisak, Kutina). The general share of agriculture
in total emission of harmful substances is highly variable, but significantly below the level of industrial
emissions. For example, the share of exhausted nitrogen (NO) from agriculture is estimated at 15-25 %,
while share of industrial deposition is about 50%. The share of phosphorus deposition (P205) is about
10%, which is significantly less than industrial influence (60-70%). The major part of agricultural
pollution by nitrate and phosphorus related to water pollution. Estimates of Sok emission, based on total
consumption of fuel and contents of sulfur in some kinds of fuel, shows that agricultural machinery
utilization accounts for about 5 % of the total air pollution in Croatia.
82.       The relatively low levels of NO, SO,, and P04 emissions from agriculture so far are the result
of ownership structure and the economic positions of Croatian agriculture producers. Namely, the greater
part of agricultural and arable land, agricultural mechanization, as well as livestock assets are family
farm-owned, whose consumption of fertilizers and pesticides, and mechanization utilization is in most
cases considerably lower, due to its inferior economic position, limited agricultural acreage, traditional
production organization and (dis)parity of input and output prices. Even the intensive production family
farms have no particular crop or livestock capacities which could, due to their size and location on small
areas, significantly influence the increase of emission of harmful substances into environment.
83.       Currently no manual exists to guide farmers on the application, handling, and storage of
agricultural inputs, and it is recommended to include the development of such a manual within the
extension component of the FSSP.
84.       More attention should be given to the appropriate development of the role of the agriculture
extension services, as well as promotion of NGOs to introduce practical approaches to integrated and
sustainable agriculture. The role and coordination of inspection activities should be strengthened. The
regular control of soil fertility should be enforced to the extent possible.
REFERENCES
1.   Addiscott, T., M., Dexter, A.,R., Tillage and crop residue management effects on losses of
chemicals from soils, 13' ISTRO Conference, Aalborg, Soil and tillage research 30, 125-168,
Amsterdam, 1994.
2.   Basic, F., Hrlec, G., Organische Problemstoffe in den Ackerb = den Kroatiens, Expertentagund der
gemeinsamen Arbeitsgruppe Bodenschutz ARGE Alpen, Alpen-Adria und Donaul-nder,
Szombathely 17-18 Oktober 1991, Bayerisches.



Project Implementation Plan                      - 169 -                                       ANNEX F
3.   Basic, F., Vidacek, Z., Petrac, J., Raez, Z., Distribution and regional Peculiarities of Soil Erosion
in Croatia, "Soil Erosion Prevention and Remediation" Workshop US-Central and Eastern
European Agro Environmental Progarmmne, Budapest, 1992.
4.   Basic, F., Bodenerosion i Rahmn des Bodendauerbeobachtungprogramms, Experttagung Bodensch.
"Bodenerosion und Strukturver-nderung ", 11, Zagreb, 1992.
5.   Basic, F., Land resources evaluation of Croatia, Agricultural sector review, FAO, 41, Zagreb,
1993
6.   Basisc, F., Tomic F., Mutapic, Z., Food Standardisation - Basis of Sustainable agriculture in
Croatia, Budapest, 1994.
7.   Canell, R.Q., Hawes, J.D., Trends in tillage practices in relation to sustainable corp production
with special reference to temperate climate, 13" ISTRO conf., Aalborg, Soil and tillage research,
30, 245-282, Amsterdam, 1994.
8.   Danube Integrated Environmental Study, Final Report Phase I for the Republic of Croatia, Tow
Planning Institute of Croatia, Zagreb, 1994
9.   Danube Integrated Environmental Study, Final Report Phase I for the Republic of Croatia, Town
Planning Institute of Croatia, Zagreb, 1993.
10.  :Environment Protection in the Legal System of the Republic of Croatia", Parliament of th republic
of Croatia, Committee for Physical Planning and Environment, Zagreb 1995.
11.  Hakansson, I., Soil tillage for crop production and for protection of soil and environment quality:
a Scandinavia viewpoint, 13' ISTRO Conf., Aalborg, Soil and tillage research, 30, 109-124,
Amsterdam, 1994.
12.  James D.E., Jansen H.M.A., J.B. Opschoor: Economic Approaches to Environmental problems,
Techniques an Results of Empirical Analysis, Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, 1978
13.  Laflen, J.M., Lal, R., El Swaify, S.,A., Soil erosion and a sustainable agriculture, in Sustainable
agricultural systems, 569-581, Ankeny, 1990.
14.  Lal, R., Water management in various crop production systems related to soil tillage, 13' ISTRO
Conf., Aalborg, Soil and tillage research, 30, 109-124, Amsterdam, 1994.
15.  M-ller, Ch., Holenstein, J., Herzog, U., Basic, F., Aichberger, K., Gruber, A. Juritsch, G.,
Goller, H, Bendova, H., Hudnik, A., Huber, W., Nemeth, T., Scherer, J.,
Bodendauerbeobachtungsfl-chen,  Emphelung   einer  abgestimmten   Vorgehenweise  der
Unterarbeistsgruppe "Boden-Dauerbeobachtungs- fl-chen" der gemeinsame Arbeitsgruppe
"Bodenschutz" von Arge Alp, Arge Alpen-Adria und Arge Donau, Staatsminister. f-r Landesentw.
und Umweltfr, 27 Muenchen, 1994.
16.  "Narodne novine", relevant issues of the Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia
17.  Nestroy, O., Agriculture and Water Protection--a Contradiction?, Proceedings of a symposium
on Agriculture and Water Management, 13-18, Bizova-Ke Tooplice, 1994.
18.  Njos, A., Future utilization and management for sustainable crop production, 13' ISTRO Conf.,
Aalborg, Soil and tillage research, 30, 109-124, Amsterdam, 1994.
19. Smyth, A.J., Dumanski, J., Spendijan, G., Swift, M.J., Thornton, P.K., FESLM: An
international framework for evaluating sustainable land management, Land and water division of
FAO, 74 p. Rome, 1993.
20.  Surveys on environmental legislation - public and internal documentation of the State Directorate
for Environment.
21.  Tanic S., Grgic I.: Some ecological aspects of input use in Croatian agriculture, Conference Pan-
Europeenne des Facultes d'Agronomie, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium 1990
22.  Varallyay, G., Soil Management and environmental Relationships in Central and Eastern Europe,
15' World Congress of Soil Science, Invited Paper for Symposia Via, Voume 7a, 34-58, Acapulco,
1994.



ANNEX F                                        - 170 -                        Project Implementation Plan
23.  Vidacek, Z., Racz, Z., Basic, F., The state, current Activities and future Plans for Soil Monitoring
Systems in Croatia, International Workshop on Harmonization of Soil Conservation Monitoring
Systems, FAO/ECE Working Party, Res. Inst. For soil Science of Hung. Academy of Sciences,
65-77, Budapest, 1993.
24.  Winpenny J. T.: Values for the Environmnent, A Guide to Economic Appraisal, HMSO, London,
1991
Zagreb, April 10, 1995 and July 5, 1995



BP D
s   A U S T R I A             /Sr--.z                          >    n                                                                       -                                                                                         B;D --:
r1               J                                  \. '~. . yEDEMULR5K2'.                                                                     H                                                          U    N  GAC R O  A T I A
_   - ti   v<V.-                                                                                                     FARMER SUPPORT
-J                                                                                                 5                                                                                                   __ 4#R D!NSKAHOY v ..........SERVICES PROJECT
SLOVEN   IA                                   ZADRB    zAF..ACR      0                                                         y                                             0   ZUPANIJA ExENSION SERVICE CENTERS [ZESCI
OWEKC S L O V E N I A   ,  i X    ZAGW  * z C   ~  =.   .:  vZONAL RESEARCH EXTENSION COORDINATION UN!TS ,ZRECL'J
0~~~~~~
*   ARRCEA  GRND00REDOORSRAI                             VTOmKO                        ANLESKA                                             A   NATIONAL VETERINARY INSTITUTE
ZAG RRCE1
0O"*    0  ~~~~~~~~~~A REGOGNAL VETERINARY CENTERS
iw\ n  ,>i o   _ S                                         v csr x r _ = o   PASTURE AND FODDER RESEARCH STAT ON
PPRRCRSKO -'           ,j05- 
\GCRA NSK4                                                                                          / P                                                                *   NATIONAL SEED AUTHORITY
P-E  1%13 A                                                                                                                                                0   FIELD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,  -w   TRA.,S SSETR
oemo                Y       .0 RIEk                             S.SACKO TCSLAVACKA                                                     -   VmLoO?
ISTARSKAR                                                                                         v                                                                                        0   MARKET NFORMAT ON SYSTEM MONITCRED MARKEIS
- REGION 'OUNDARIES
0    MAJOR TO>VNS
013                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
\   4   4   SENJSKA                                                                                                                                        I - -  NTERNATIONAI BOCJNDAR.ES
\  X  \ ?   KNINS5KAO  *rL s.eDrrQ                                                                                                                             LArZA   \      'USAN   I
0 Zd.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
\  *c S BOSNIA AND DNz^RK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- /- >,E
\   X                   --   . -' X                          ~~~~~~H E R Z E G O V I N A                           S>o .~                                            oriD           '(
r X   \<               -        .      >                    \                                                                  -        (I       Geu^Y          jo       rGLsD -            _.-
*N\>N SKA                                                                                                           W.( - -  -                        MuARE
SLCVENIAf             RDII0ANI
FED. REP. OF    F
{ YUGOSLAVIA   ,                                           S ANY  -                         _
NEREtVANSKX             - O .                                           -          YAr A               . I                  5.AA
O 50  1 0 0           150   _ _=                                                              DubnakI -\,  (   j                        
KXTOMETERS
Th. b        .nA O., d-no.noo, - ,dy otnt-16 itn I.H..  IN.                                                                                                                                                               /
"op d,o 0ly t7R7 p. oR Th. wRVd Bok G-p, -y, IrA0  fog=/. _.go-
HO-E 0(r=,y, ,  -'y' -dy  o    -p- 0fEB,tO ,od , /h
Nolf Soon}} o,oo ,'oE,dod6A 0t th. oo1P 0 ,,,.,v r'A ur th son.Ecli oRu ST,. wn RoFR Ey
-J5  ~RF F .









IMAGING
Report No:      14398 HR
Type: SAR



