Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3988 HR
                               Loan Agreement
                     (Farmer Support Services Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated April 23, 1996
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3988 HR
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
CROATIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
                  "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
Page  2
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
            sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is
            added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals
            under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
            provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
            Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "APU" means the Agriculture Policy Unit established
within MAF;
      (b)   "ARC" means the Agriculture Research Council to be
established pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding;
      (c)   "FADAR" means the Fund for Applied and Development
Agricultural Research to be established and administered by the
ARC for financing applied research pursuant to the Memorandum of
Understanding;
      (d)   "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry;
      (e)   "Memorandum of Understanding" means the Memorandum
of Understanding signed by the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry and the Minister of Science and Technology on July 11,
1995;
      (f)   "NSA" means the National Seed Authority to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 (c)(i) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "NVI" means the National Veterinary Institute
established pursuant to the law on animal health protection and
veterinary activities, published in the Croatian Official Gazette
52/91;
      (h)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit
established within MAF referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "ZESC" means the Zupanija Extension Service Centers
established pursuant to the law on the system of State Administration,
published in the Croatian Official Gazette 75/93, and implemented by
Governmental Regulation No. 023-01/94-02/02 of 28 April 1994; and
      (k)   "ZRECU" means the Zonal Research Extension Coordination
Units to be established within MAF pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                The Loan
      Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of seventeen million dollars
($17,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in a
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
Page  4
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
            October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, administrative, financial and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03.  For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than four (4) months
                  after the end of each such year, the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                    Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
      Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Katanciceva 5
            10000 Zagreb
            Croatia
                                          Telex:
                                          862-21215
                                          862-28133
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                        By /s/ Bozo Prka
                                                 Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                    Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated                 % of
                          (Expressed in               Expenditures
Page  7
                              Dollar                     to be
Category                    Equivalent)                 Financed
(1)   Civil Works             750,000                 90%
(2)   Goods                                           100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
      (a)  Parts A,C, D                               100% of local
           & F              5,050,000                 expenditures
           of the Project                             (ex-factory
      (b)  Part B of                                  cost) and 85%
           the Project        650,000                 of local
                                                      expenditures
      (c)  Part E of the                              for other items
           Project          1,000,000                 procured locally
(3)   Consultants'                                    70%
      Services (Other than those
      under Part B (2) of the
      Project)
       (a)  Parts A, C, D
            & F             1,600,000
            of the Project
       (b)  Part B of the
            Project           250,000
       (c)  Part E of
            the Project       150,000
(4)   Training                                        55%
       (a)  Parts A, C,
            D, & F          1,800,000
            of the Project
       (b)  Part B of
            the Project       400,000
       (c)  Part E of
            the Project       100,000
(5)   Consultants' Services 3,800,000              80%
      under Part B (2) of
      the Project
 (6)  Unallocated           1,450,000
                           __________
      TOTAL                17,000,000
                           ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   payments made for expenditures relating to Categories
2(b), 3(b), 4(b), and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1
Page  8
of this Schedule,  until the Borrower:  (i) has established the
ARC and its secretariat, and appointed all its members; and
(ii) has adopted operational guidelines for the ARC
satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (c)   Payments made for expenditures relating to Categories
2(c), 3(c) and 4(c) set forth in the table to paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, until the Borrower has:  (i) enacted, in
accordance with internationally acceptable standards, a law on
the protection of the intellectual property rights associated
with the use of plant genetic material and the testing and
approval for use of plant genetic material, and established the
NSA pursuant to such law; (ii) appointed a director of the NSA
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) provided suitable facilities for the operation of the
NSA.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts
costing less than $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support the
transition of the agricultural sector to a market economy by
providing technology-related support services to private family
farmers and thereby improve the income of the private family
farming community and increase the productivity and
competitiveness of the sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Agriculture Extension
1.    Public extension
      (a)   Operational support to the ZESC and MAF's Extension
Department through the provision of technical assistance,
vehicles, office furniture and equipment, computers, audio-
visual equipment, extension field equipment kits, and farm
production publications.
      (b)   Carrying out of diagnostic surveys in each of the
ZESC in order to analyze the agricultural constraints and
potential of the areas served by the ZESC.
      (c)   (i)   Implementation of an extension training
program; (ii) development of twenty-five thematic extension
packages for mass-media extension; and (iii) carrying out of an
on-farm trial and demonstration program.
2.    Private extension
      (a)   Development of private advisory services through the
provision of:  (i)  public and private financing of private
agriculture advisors to a limited number of farmers
associations;  and (ii) training equipment to said
associations.
      (b)   Support of a limited number of farmers  associations
through the provision of milk recording and testing equipment,
computers, staff training and technical assistance.
Part B:    Agriculture Research
1.    Establishment of the ARC and provision to the ARC of
Page  9
technical assistance, office and computer equipment, and
vehicles.
2.    Carrying out of applied and development agricultural
research undertaken pursuant to contracts entered into by the
ARC and funded by grants provided out of the resources of the
FADAR on a competitive basis.
3.    Carrying out of a research management training program,
and provision of technical assistance therefor, for applied
research staff and the ARC.
4.    Establishment of four ZRECU and provision of office and
computer equipment, and staff.
Part C:    Animal Health Support Services
1.    Provision of vehicles and laboratory equipment to the NVI
and its four regional branches to intensify the national
disease surveillance program, and training.
2.    Improving MAF's national disease reporting service through
the provision of computer equipment, vehicles, training, and
technical assistance.
3.    Strengthening of the national veterinary professional
association (the "National Veterinary Chamber") through the
provision of office equipment, animal health publications, and
a training program for veterinarians.
Part D:    Pasture and Fodder Development
1.    Strengthening of the Sljeme Pasture Research Station of
the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Zagreb through
the rehabilitation of existing facilities and the construction
of a pasture laboratory and training facility, thereby
improving the laboratory, research and training facilities at
said station, and through the provision of laboratory and field
trials equipment, and vehicles.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to the Faculty of
Agriculture of the University of Zagreb to carry out an
evaluation of the national grassland resource.
3.    Carrying out a training program in pasture management for
extension advisors, farmers, and agricultural research staff,
and provision of technical assistance therefor.
4.    Construction and equipping of a gene bank at the Faculty
of Agriculture of the University of Zagreb.
Part E:    Seed Industry Development
1.    Establishment of the NSA and provision of office,
computer, laboratory, field trials equipment and vehicles,
training, and technical assistance.
2.    Provision of technical services to assist MAF in the
establishment, and NSA in the  implementation, of a seed
industry regulatory framework in conformity with European Union
requirements.
Part F:    Policy Analysis Support
1.    Strengthening of the policy formulation capacity of MAF
through the provision to the APU of technical assistance,
training and equipment.
2.    Establishment of a market information system by MAF's
Agriculture Policy Department.
3.    Carrying out of a baseline survey and a farm monitoring
Page  10
survey program.
4.    Strengthening of MAF's implementation capacity by
providing to the PIU office and computer equipment, vehicles,
and technical assistance.
                               * * * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
      beginning March 1, 2001
      through March 1, 2012                     710,000
And on September 1, 2012                        670,000
_____________________________
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                       Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Page  11
Not more than three years                0.18
  before maturity
More than three years but                0.35
  not more than six years
  before maturity
More than six years but                  0.65
  not more than 11 years
  before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.88
  more than 15 years
  before maturity
More than 15 years before                1.00
  maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of Contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent
or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines  and  Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      The rehabilitation and construction works  under Part D.1
of the Project, and office furniture and equipment, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $470,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Bidders for the
rehabilitation and construction works under Part D.1 of the
Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guildelines.
2.    Procurement of Small Works
      The construction works under Part D.4 of the Project may
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on
Page  12
the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date,
a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience to complete the
contract successfully.
3.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $650,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Goods of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to (i) all contracts for goods awarded in
accordance with procedures under Parts B and C.4 of this
Section, (ii) the first contracts for goods awarded in
accordance with procedures under Part C.1 of this Section, and
(iii) the first contracts for works awarded in accordance with
procedures under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
Page  13
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the PIU with qualified staff
in adequate number, including an  implementation officer, a
procurement adviser, a financial officer, and an administrative
assistant.
2.    The Borrower shall establish:  (a) the first of four ZRECU
not later than October 31, 1997, and  (b) three more ZRECU not
later than October 31, 1998.
3.    Not later than April 30, 1997, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to each ZESC environmental guidelines, satisfactory
to the Bank, on the use of agrochemicals.
4.    For the purpose of carrying out Part B (2) of the Project,
the Borrower shall authorize the ARC to: (a)  allocate research
funds;  (b) select and approve research proposals;  and  (c)
carry out off-site and on-site supervision of  the
implementation of the contracts entered into by the ARC.
5.    Not later than April 30, 1999, the Borrower shall review
the funding arrangements for the FADAR and submit the results
of its review to the Bank.
6.    Not later than October 31, 1996, the APU shall be staffed
with qualified experts, including an agricultural policy
analysis expert, a marketing policy expert, a trade and price
policy expert, and a farm management expert.  Before October 31
of each year during the execution of the Project, the APU shall
prepare annual work programs for the following calendar year
and submit them to the Bank for its review.
7.    Not later than October 31, 1997, the Borrower shall
convert all existing import  quotas to tariffs for seed trade.
8.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain adequate procedures to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with project performance
indicators agreed between the parties, the implementation of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
      (b)   not later than April 30, 1998,  review with the Bank
the progress made in the implementation of the Project, and
thereafter promptly take all necessary measures to execute the
actions identified and agreed upon between the Bank and the
Borrower during such review.
9.    Within six months of the fulfilment of the condition
provided in paragraph 3 (c) of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
the Borrower shall prepare and submit for the Bank's review a
schedule on cost recovery for the NSA.
10.   Not later than October 31, 1996, the Borrower shall
employ, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Page  14
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the following consultants:  an
extension specialist, a research management specialist, a
veterinary epidemiologist, a pasture livestock economist, a
seed certification specialist, and a long term agriculture
policy advisor to assist in carrying out, respectively, Parts
A to F of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment
                  is requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                  the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
Page  15
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
or
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  16
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
