Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19401
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2647-BO)
June 25, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise by disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(As of December 30, 1998)
Currency Unit Boliviano (Bs)
US$ 1.00  Bs. 5.62
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPAC          Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
ELFEC         Empresa de Luzy Fuerza Electrica de Cochabamba (Cochabamba
Electricity Distribution Company)
ENDE          Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Power Company)
ENFE          Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (National Railway Company)
ENTEL         Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National
Telecommunications Company)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LAB           Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (National Airline)
MIF           Multilateral Investment Fund (of the Inter-American Development
Bank)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RRPTAC        Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
RRSAC         Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit
SAM           SociedadAnonima Mixta (Mixed ownership company)
SOE           State-Owned Enterprise
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIRESE        Sistema de Regulacion Sectorial (System for Sectoral Regulation)
TA            Technical Assistance
TAB           Transportes Aereos Bolivianos (Military-operated airline)
TAM           Transportes Aereos Militares (Military-operated freight carrier)
YPFB          Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (National Hydrocarbons
Company)
Vice President               : Shahid Javed Burki
Director                     : Isabel Guerrero
Task Manager                 . Susan Goldmark
Staff Member                 . Shobha Sahgal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................................................ 
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................                                                .
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. Background ...............................................1 
B. Project Objectives and Design ................................................1
C. Achievement of Objectives ................................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting Implementation ...............................................                           7
E. Project Sustainability ................................................8
F. IDA Performance ...............................................                                                  9
G. Borrower Performance ...............................................                                            10
H. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................                                           11
I. Future Operation ...............................................                                                12
J. Key Lessons Learned ............................................... 13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                  15
Table 2:   Related IDA  Credits ...............................................                                    15
Table 3:   Project Timetable ...............................................                                       17
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual ................................ :.17
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................                 18
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................                    19
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ...............................................                            20
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................                                           20
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................                                       21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                            21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                               21
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                            22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                23
APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE ...............................................                                                    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION AND COMMENTS TO THE ICR ............... 28
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS
Table  1: Use of Project Funds .......................................................                                               33
Table 2: Capitalization Transactions ........................................................                                        33
Table 3: Privatization Transactions 1995-1998 .......................................................                                34
Table 4: SIRESE  Evaluation  1997 ........................................................                                           34
Table 5: Tenure of SIRESE  Superintendents .......................................................                                   35
Table 6: SIRESE  Budgets 1997-1999 ........................................................                                          35
Table 7: SIRESE  Employees 1997-1999 .......................................................                                         36
Table 8: SIRESE  Personnel Costs 1997-1999 .......................................................                                   36
Table 9: SIRESE  Appeals Cases 1997-1998 .......................................................                                     36
MAP



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 2647-BO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 2647-BO in the
amount of SDR 10.5 million (US$15.4 million equivalent) was approved on July 26, 1994 and
made effective on January 4, 1995.
The Credit was closed on December 15,1998, five-and-a-half months later than
planned. It was fully disbursed, the last disbursement taking place on April 30, 1998.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Multilateral Investment Fund (MIF) of the
Inter-American Development Bank's Technical Cooperation Facility and by the Government
of France.
The ICR was prepared by Lisette Price (Consultant) and Susan Goldmark (Task
Manager and Sector Leader, LCSFP) and reviewed by Luis Guasch (Lead Specialist, LCSFP),
Hermann von Gersdorff (Task Manager of the Bolivian Financial Markets and Pension
Reform Technical Assistance Credit, LCSFP) and Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance
Officer, LCSFP). The Borrower provided comments on the draft, which have been
incorporated into the final document. The Borrower's own evaluation of the project's
execution is included as Appendix B of the ICR.



ii
BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2647-BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background. Although Bolivia embarked on a program of adjustment as early as
1985, key sectors of the country's economy-electricity, telecommunications, transport,
hydrocarbons and mining-remained dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs) for some
time longer. By 1993, these sectors were generally suffering from weak management and low
productivity, with negative consequences for the economy as a whole. That year, an incoming
administration devised a novel form of divestiture, called "capitalization", for SOEs in these
sectors, with the aim of improving investment, productivity and growth in Bolivia. Under
capitalization, investors would be offered 50 percent of an SOE's shares and management
control, in return for increasing the company's equity. Ownership of the remaining shares
would be transferred to the Bolivian people, with a small portion sold to employees. In March
1994, a Capitalization Law was approved, and a Ministry was formed soon after.
2.    Project Objectives. To support the reforms, IDA organized a broad program of
assistance, including an adjustment operation and several technical assistance credits, of
which this was the first and largest. The credit for SDR 10.5 million (US$15.4 million
equivalent) was approved in July 1994 and made effective in January 1995. Its objectives
were: (i) to assist in the planning, design and execution of the Government's capitalization
program in the electricity, telecommunications, transport, hydrocarbons and mining sectors;
and (ii) to assist in the design, establishment and initial operation of a regulatory framework
for these sectors.
3.    Assessment of Outcome. The project's outcome is rated satisfactory overall. The
bulk of the credit went towards supporting the capitalization transactions, and the results in
this area are rated highly satisfactory. Project funds were used mainly to finance consultants,
who helped to translate the idea of capitalization into a workable model that was successfully
implemented. They helped to prepare new sectoral laws, restructure the six public enterprises
into eleven units to be capitalized, establish their book values and assess economic values,
promote the companies to potential investors, design procedures for investor selection, and
define investment and other contractual obligations. The project also financed a public
information campaign aimed at potential investors, workers and the Bolivian public in
general.
4.    Of the six large SOEs, two were capitalized in their entirety-the long-distance
telecommunications company and the national airline (ENTEL and LAB). In the national
power company (ENDE), three generation companies were capitalized, and an electricity
distribution company and the transmission system were privatized. The national
hydrocarbons company's (YPFB) exploration and production business, its existing pipelines
and the Bolivian portion of the prospective Bolivia-Brazil natural gas pipeline were



iii
capitalized. The national railway (ENFE) was capitalized as two railway companies. The
project also supported privatization of Bolivia's three main airports. In general, there was
good investor interest in the transactions, with most attracting several offers, including from
some leading international firms. Only the national smelter (Vinto) failed to attract a bid.
The winning capitalization bids totaled US$1.7 billion, almost a quarter of Bolivia's GDP.
The transfers were executed quite rapidly-within two years of project effectiveness-and with
sufficient transparency that investors went on record to describe it as the most transparent
privatization process in which they had been involved. The public information campaign
proved very successful with potential investors and with workers, but the portion aimed at the
general public should have placed greater emphasis on the benefits of reform.
5.    Not only were the transfers executed successfully, quite rapidly and with transparency,
but Bolivia also established the conditions necessary for long-term benefits to flow from the
divestitures. New laws were approved in electricity, telecommunications, hydrocarbons and
mining, which in general provide a sound basis for competition and so efficiency and growth.
Enforcement of these rules now falls to the regulatory system, SIRESE, which the regulatory
reform component of the project helped to establish. The outcome of this component is rated
satisfactory, because it substantially achieved its objective of helping to establish an effective,
independent regulatory system, but some problems did arise during implementation. First,
there were slight delays in establishing the agencies. Later, the main problem was the
temporary deterioration in relations between the regulators and some members of the new
government, following a change of government in August 1997. Nevertheless, the regulators'
independence was maintained during a difficult transition period, and overall, the
achievements of the component are considerable. A modern regulatory framework is in place
in Bolivia, including some of the strongest legal guarantees of regulatory independence in the
region. The SIRESE agencies on the whole are well-funded and staffed and are operating
satisfactorily. They have adopted some of the best practices of international regulation, such
as the use of public procedures for decision-making, attention to consumer concerns, and
speedy resolution of appeals from their decisions. Still, institution-building takes time, and
this project's achievements constitute just the first steps towards the successful development
of regulatory capacity in Bolivia.
6.    The reform program was completed quite recently, and it is still too soon to judge its
full effect on productivity and growth. But, because Bolivia accompanied its divestitures with
legal and regulatory improvements, the prospects for efficient private sector activity are good.
Already the reforms have significantly increased levels of private investment in Bolivia; in
1997 private investment reached an estimated 1 1.5 percent of GDP, almost double the 5.9
percent attained in 1994, the last full year before capitalization. This investment has brought a
rapid expansion of coverage in reformed sectors-companies appear to be reaching and, in
some cases, exceeding their investment obligations. In electricity, for example, installed
capacity grew by 40 percent by 1998, while in hydrocarbons, investments planned for the next
eight years triple historical levels of investment in the sector. The telephone penetration rate
rose from 3.6 percent in 1994 to 6.47 percent by end-1997 and about 770 isolated villages
received lifeline services. Unlike privatization, capitalization provided no fiscal windfall to
the Government. But by making all adult Bolivians shareholders in the capitalized
companies, it will permit them to benefit directly from companies' profitability. Both the



iv
benefits of this share ownership and the governance of the companies would be enhanced by
listing of the shares on a stock exchange.
7.    Implementation Experience. The implementation of such sweeping reforms is a
considerable achievement in a country with an under-developed private sector and weak
institutional capacity. It was made possible by complete local ownership of the reform
program, increased by the presence of local experts in the working groups handling the
reforms in each sector. Capitalization was a Bolivian idea, and there was full commitment to
its implementation both at technical and political levels of government. As a result,
transactions proceeded rapidly, with four of the six SOEs capitalized within eighteen months
of project approval. The SIRESE reforms lagged the divestitures, partly because of a focus on
the high-profile transactions and partly because of Bolivia's limited human resources. The
delay in establishing SIRESE caused a few problems to the main technical assistance package
financed by the project. The initial scope of work had to be adjusted to take account of the
views of Superintendents appointed some months later. Delays also arose in the procurement
of the spectrumn frequency-monitoring equipment for the Telecommunications
Superintendency. These eventually made necessary a five-and-a-half month extension of the
closing date, even though the credit was otherwise almost entirely disbursed a year before the
original closing date.
8.    The early rapid pace of capitalization produced cashflow problems in the Ministry of
Capitalization, since sectoral TA credits that were to finance part of the program were not yet
approved or effective. This project therefore financed some expenditures that were meant for
the sectoral operations. Despite this, financing gaps continued to appear as the reform
program expanded. The IDA country team was able to locate some additional funds, but the
Ministry of Capitalization still had to negotiate bridge loans to cover its needs. The search for
funds took time and attention, both the Ministry's and IDA's, away from the main issue--the
reform program. The problem might not have arisen if the sectoral loans had been approved
and effective sooner. Alternatively, it could have been avoided altogether, by organizing the
technical assistance for capitalization transactions, regardless of sector, into a single
operation.
9.    IDA Performance. Overall, IDA performance is rated satisfactory. Identification was
highly satisfactory; IDA immediately acknowledged the priority given to capitalization and
recognized the need for technical assistance. Staff worked hard to provide timely financing of
these needs, with Board approval of the project coming just three months after an appropriate
implementing agency was established. Project appraisal was sound; the decision to include
unallocated funds proved crucial as financing gaps emerged in the program. Supervision was
satisfactory. IDA staff spent considerable time and effort processing the numerous contracts
generated by the project. During the early years of project implementation, prior review was
required of all contracts in order to address concerns about the contracting capacity of the
Ministry of Capitalization, a new implementing agency. In practice, prior review by IDA of
every single contract was not the efficient way to handle this issue. When the SIRESE
component ran into trouble with the new administration, IDA played an important role in



v
safeguarding these reforms, discussing with the new Government the importance to
investment and growth of strong, credible regulatory authorities.
10.   Borrower Performance. This was satisfactory overall. Full Government
commitment made possible quite rapid implementation of a complex and demanding reform
program. As planned, once its key tasks had been completed, the Ministry of Capitalization
closed in July 1997. It is noteworthy that Bolivia tackled time-consuming legal and
regulatory reform, as well as divestiture. The timing of the SIRESE reforms could have been
better. The tensions that arose between the new administration and SIRESE undermined the
latter's credibility, but the Government did subsequently declare its commitment to regulatory
independence and during the past 18 months has taken actions to substantiate this declaration.
11.   Project Sustainability. The project's achievements are likely to be sustainable. The
capitalization components provided assistance that was by nature short-term. They
accomplished their objective-to transfer ownership of key SOEs to the private sector under
conditions that promote efficiency and competition-and these achievements are not likely to
be reversed. The main political parties are committed to private management of productive
activity. More privatizations are in fact planned, including of remaining portions of
enterprises that were capitalized. Parallel to privatization, the broader program of
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for private investment is continuing. This
will help to ensure that long-term benefits flow from the privatizations. IDA is supporting the
ongoing reforms with a new adjustment operation approved in November 1998 and with the
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit, (RRPTAC), approved in
June 1998.
12.   With regard to SIRESE, the benefits of the assistance provided in this first project now
appear likely to be sustained, although SIRESE will need continued support for its long-term
development. The project helped to ensure that the new agencies made a good start. IDA was
able to offer them important support during a change of government, inevitably a difficult
period. These were the first successful steps in what will necessarily be a long process of
institution-building. Efforts to improve the system are continuing, and include fine-tuning of
regulations, and a proposal to create a committee to improve coordination between the
executive branch and SIRESE. The regulators are to adopt a "Code of Conduct" and staffing
benchmarks based on international best practice, guidelines which will promote
accountability. In its future operation, SIRESE will benefit from some of the strongest legal
safeguards of independence enjoyed by regulators anywhere. Also, continuing IDA assistance
aims to clarify and resolve pending issues between the regulatory agencies and the executive.
IDA is also providing support for judicial reform in Bolivia, which, if successful, will
contribute greatly to the long-term prospects for SIRESE and private sector development in
general.
13.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*     Where there is full commitment, both at technical and political levels of Government,
major reform is possible.



vi
*     Divestiture needs strong leadership and access to the highest levels of government for
decisions to be taken quickly.
*     Privatizations should be preceded by establishment of a legal and regulatory
framework designed to promote competition and efficiency.
*     Divestitures, especially of large SOEs, are high-profile events and governments tend
understandably to focus on transactions to the detriment of accompanying legal and
regulatory reforms. IDA can play a key role by emphasizing these latter aspects
through advice, guidance on best practice and initial financing of regulatory agencies.
*     Providing technical assistance to a reform program through a free-standing credit
(separate from an adjustment operation) allows maximum flexibility.
Short-term technical assistance for divestiture is better provided through a single
operation rather than several sector-specific credits.
*     Since the priorities for privatization may shift during project implementation, technical
assistance operations supporting such efforts should allow for some flexibility.
IDA's procedures of prior review, including its information systems, are not designed
to handle TA projects involving numerous contracts. They are onerous and do not
serve as efficient abuse-prevention mechanisms. Higher prior review thresholds
combined with effective ex-post review mechanisms would be more efficient.
*     §)Divestiture transactions are best managed by a strong core of local professionals with
advice from high-calibre international firns and consultants. This ensures that
transactions are well handled while encouraging local ownership and accountability.
Public information campaigns should be used to disseminate information on the
benefits of divestiture programs as well as to collect information from key
stakeholders to help design the program.
Institution-building takes time, and is best supported by a program--rather than
project-approach.
*     A rigorous, comprehensive evaluation of the impact of such regulatory reform and
divestiture programs should be conducted several years after their implementation.
This analysis should focus particularly on how these reforms have affected the poor.



BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2647-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Although Bolivia embarked on a program of adjustment as early as 1985, key sectors
of the country's economy-electricity, telecommunications, transport, hydrocarbons and
mining-were still dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs) eight years later. These
strategic sectors were generally suffering from weak management and low productivity, with
negative consequences for the economy as a whole. In an attempt to raise productivity in the
SOEs, performance contracts had been introduced in 1990, but they proved difficult to design
and administer and were discontinued after two years. In 1993, with the aim of improving
investment, productivity and growth in Bolivia, an incoming administration devised a novel
form of divestiture called "capitalization" for the six largest SOEs. A Capitalization Law was
approved in March 1994 and a Ministry of Capitalization formed soon after.
2.    Under capitalization, investors would be offered 50 percent of the shares of an
enterprise and management control, in return for increasing the company's equity. Ownership
of the remaining shares would be transferred to the Bolivian people, with a small portion sold
to employees. Like privatization, capitalization would be a complex undertaking: enterprises
would have to be restructured, new laws introduced and regulatory agencies established, in
order to create the conditions for efficient private sector activity. Yet unlike privatization,
capitalization would bring no fiscal windfall to finance the costs of these reforms. The
Government of Bolivia therefore sought IDA funding for its reform program.
3.    Representing a second stage of adjustment that IDA had long been promoting, the
program clearly merited support. Accordingly, IDA assistance was to include an adjustment
operation, the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (CPAC), as well as several technical
assistance credits, of which this was the first and largest. In addition, several existing projects
were restructured to provide support for reform activities. A Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) for this project was approved as early as August 1993. When the Capitalization
Ministry was created in April 1994 and designated implementing agency, the project was
appraised, approved in July 1994 and made effective in January 1995.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.    Objectives. The project's objectives were: (i) to assist in the planning, design and
execution of the Government's capitalization program in the electricity, telecommunications,
transport, hydrocarbons and mining sectors; and (ii) to assist in the design, establishment and
initial operation of a regulatory framework for these sectors.



2
5.    Design. To achieve these objectives, the project included four components: (i) a
Ministry of Capitalization component, comprising technical assistance for legal reform and
capitalization in all sectors, including support for a public information campaign; (ii) a
telecommunications component to assist sectoral reform, capitalization and establishment of a
telecommunications regulator; (iii) a similar aviation component, covering the national airline
(LAB), two small military airlines (TAM and TAB) and airports; (iv) a regulatory reform
component to provide assistance for establishment of the new regulatory system (SIRESE)f,
including financing of training programs.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives and Design. The project objectives represented important
intermediate goals in IDA's assistance strategy for Bolivia, which viewed increased private
investment as the key to greater productivity and growth. Divestiture was central to the
strategy, and it was important that it be well executed. The project's objectives were also very
much in keeping with the Government's own priorities, capitalization being the key economic
program of the administration. The objectives correctly encompassed regulatory reform as
well as capitalization, recognizing the need to create a legal and regulatory framework that
would encourage privatized companies to increase competition and efficiency. The regulatory
objective was formulated realistically as offering support to the early stages of regulation.
7.    Although divided into four components, the assistance to be provided under the
project was basically of two types: (i) short-term technical assistance to capitalization,
covering the usual transaction-related matters such as asset valuation, enterprise restructuring
and the design of sale procedures, as well as an information campaign; and (ii) longer-term
assistance for institutional development of regulatory authorities. The project's apparent
emphasis on the telecommunications and aviation sectors is incidental, stemming from the
design of the entire IDA program of technical assistance in support of capitalization and
regulatory reform. This was to be a large TA program (US$39.4 million),2 its size almost
equaling that of the adjustment credit. It was also complex, involving support to almost a
dozen regulatory agencies as well as several line ministries. To manage this complexity, the
package was split along sectoral lines and staggered. Since specific TA projects were planned
for hydrocarbons, electricity and finance, and there were existing operations in mining and
railways, this project was to finance activities in the two remaining sectors, as well as provide
cross-sectoral assistance to the Ministry of Capitalization. In practice, for reasons discussed
below, project funds were also used for sector-specific activities in electricity and
hydrocarbons. This project was not involved in the pension reform and share distribution
aspects of the reform program. Thus, these components are not discussed in this report.
The MOP refers to a regulatory commission (CONARE); the proposed design and name were later changed.
2 This sum includes funds provided by this Credit, the Hydrocarbons Sector Reform and Capitalization TA
Credit, the Financial Markets and Pension Reform TA Credit and the Power Sector Reform TA Credit. It does
not take account of funds provided by pre-existing credits (Export Corridors, Mining Sector Rehabilitation and
Private Enterprise Development) or by the Judicial Reform Credit.



3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Capitalization Components. The capitalization components, which absorbed some
64 percent of project funds (in SDRs),3 substantially achieved their objective; they helped to
translate the idea of capitalization into a workable model that was successfully implemented.
The funds financed mainly consultants' fees, including those of investment banks (retainers),
transaction lawyers, regulatory lawyers, auditors and local technical specialists who made up
the working groups in each sector. The consultants helped the Government to prepare new
sectoral laws and regulations, restructure the six public enterprises into eleven units to be
capitalized, establish book values and assess economic values, promote the companies to
potential investors, design procedures for investor selection, and define investment and other
contractual obligations.
9.    They provided advice on a complex range of issues, some unique to the capitalization
approach, for example: whether to require investors to deposit the full capitalization amount
up-front; how to keep the capitalization funds safe until they could be invested in Bolivia;
why and how the public's shares should be placed in trust until fund managers could assume
control of them. The assistance provided helped to make the transactions a success: ENTEL
and LAB were transferred in their entirety to private management, as were major portions of
ENDE, ENFE and YPFB. The smelter failed to attract a bid, but most enterprises attracted
multiple offers, many from leading international firms. All winning bids but one were above
book value, an important achievement for the Government, that wished to demonstrate that
good value had been obtained for public assets. Together, the winning bids totaled
US$1.7 billion, almost two-and-a-half times book value, and about a quarter of the country's
GDP.4
10.   The challenging program of reform was implemented in a remarkably short period -
between March 1994 and December 1996. Although the Government's initial timetable was
even more ambitious, in practice it would have been difficult to accelerate the pace of reform
much further, for both technical and political reasons. Overall, a good balance was struck
between maintaining the momentum of reform and taking the time needed to prepare properly
for divestiture. The transparency of the process was good, with investors going on record to
describe it as the most transparent privatization process in which they had been involved.
IDA was able to play a useful role in this, for example in emphasizing the importance of
basing final selection of investors on economic bids. The use of IDA procedures for
contracting consultants also contributed to the transparency of the overall program.
11.   With respect to the two sectors specifically covered by this credit, the ENTEL
capitalization was one of the program's success stories, in terms of the winning bid's size.
The high bid of US$610 million does in part reflect the decision not to eliminate the
monopoly in long-distance telephony until 2001, but the operator is nevertheless required to
meet expansion and quality-of-service targets. In aviation, although Bolivia did succeed in
capitalizing the national airline, LAB, which it had previously tried but failed to privatize, the
operator is now in financial straits, despite having satisfied financial criteria during the
See Table 1 of Appendix C for the final breakdown by component of project funds .
4 See Table 2 of Appendix C for details of the capitalization transactions.



4
selection process. This disappointing result is basically the consequence of low interest in the
transaction. Several firms participated in the early stages of bidding, but in the end only one
offer was received. This winning bid, equivalent to US$49 million, essentially involved the
addition of three airplanes to the LAB fleet.
12.   Privatization. The project also supported some privatizations, including a concession
covering the three main airports, which handle 85% of the country's air transport.
Cofinancing provided by the Government of France funded a study of alternatives for the
airports' privatization. IDA then financed advisors for the transaction itself. In November
1996, a 25-year master concession was awarded to a private consortium, making Bolivia the
first country in Latin America to privatize its airports. Consultants financed by the project
also advised on the sale of shares in ELFEC, a regional electricity distribution company.
They reviewed an initial proposal to sell shares through a stock exchange, and recommended
an alternative approach, which improved the transparency of the sale and brought in a winning
bid of US$50.3 million. The planned privatization of TAM and TAB did not take place; after
eliminating the implicit subsidies they had been receiving, the Government decided that their
privatization was of lower priority.
13.   Public Information Campaign. Part of the project's support to capitalization was
financing for a public information campaign, both foreign and domestic. The international
campaign worked well, achieving the objective of promoting capitalization and Bolivia to
potential investors. It funded publication of bidding notices, and also helped to finance a
series of seminars for potential investors, which proved both popular and useful. The
seminars gave investors a better understanding of capitalization, a new approach to
privatization. They also provided the Government with useful feedback on the feasibility of
its reform proposals.
14.   The domestic campaign had two main parts, one focusing on employees of public
enterprises. They were given the chance before capitalization to buy a share in their SOE at
book value. With this share they acquired an option to purchase more shares (up to the value
of their accumulated "social benefits"), still at book value, following capitalization. The
information campaign brought workers into seminars where the benefits of share ownership
and of the option were explained. These were a success; in most enterprises, more than 90%
of employees took up the option. LAB and ENFE at 60% were the exceptions, with the
reluctance of the latter's workers vindicated by the relatively low bids subsequently received.
Overall, some 11,500 workers, over three-quarters of those eligible, bought shares.
15.   The other part of the domestic campaign was aimed at the general public. Although it
was highly visible, involving television, radio, and print media, and including publication of a
capitalization newsletter, it focused more on describing how capitalization worked and less on
explaining why it was necessary and benefited Bolivians. It appeared to have only a small
impact on public opinion, as resistance to the reforms grew as capitalization proceeded. It
now seems clear that the emphasis on technical issues was inappropriate. For the mass of the
Bolivian population, as opposed to the political elite, the question was why privatization
should happen, not how. The campaign, with its focus on technical aspects, did not engage
the majority of Bolivians, for whom concepts such as share ownership were nebulous. But



5
the failings of the campaign have only become apparent with hindsight. At the time, the
project was financing experts in public relations and communications, and they were
mounting what looked like a well-organized campaign. By contrast, IDA staff had little
experience to draw on in this field. Overall, the lesson learned is that information campaigns
do have an important part to play in a reform effort, but IDA should encourage a focus on the
benefits of reform.
16.   Regulatory Reform Components (SIRESE). The objective of the regulatory reform
components was substantially achieved, using some 29 percent of project funds. About half
this amount financed consultants whose tasks included: helping to prepare the SIRESE law
and regulations; advising the Government on the structure and functions of SIRESE;
producing operational and administrative manuals for use by SIRESE ; and providing training
to the new regulators. The other half of the funds was spent on purchasing specialized
equipment for the Telecommunications Superintendent, needed to help regulate the sector.
The project was designed to help with the early stages of establishing an effective,
independent regulatory system, and in this it was basically successful. The SIRESE agencies
have encountered some difficulties, as discussed below, but on the whole are off to a good
start. Still, they remain recent creations, and IDA support for their institutional development
needs to continue.
17.   The first step towards establishing the SIRESE system was taken in 1994 with
preparation of the framework law. Consultants financed by the project helped with this work,
and the law that was approved in October 1994 encourages regulatory independence with
some of the strongest legal safeguards in the world. These include fixed terms of office,
removal for incapacity or misconduct only, independent funding through levies on regulated
companies, and an appeals structure which excludes recourse to political authorities. The IDA
team contributed to discussions on the law, making available information on regulatory
models and best practice.
18.   One aim of IDA assistance was to promote a coordinated approach to regulation across
the various sectors. In the Bolivian context, it also seemed sensible to encourage sharing of
scarce resources, such as regulatory economists and lawyers. Both coordination and resource-
sharing could have been facilitated by the creation of a multi-sectoral agency, such as a
commission. But the idea of a commission was finally rejected as diluting personal
accountability. So under the Bolivian model of a "system" of regulation, individual
Superintendents are in charge of each sector-electricity, telecommunications, transport,
water, and hydrocarbons-but are overseen by a General Superintendent, who can encourage
resource-sharing and coordination. He authorizes budgets and administrative structures and
reviews the efficiency and effectiveness of sectoral regulators. Since he also hears appeals
from their decisions, there is a potential conflict between his responsibilities. He should not
be involved in sectoral regulators' affairs if he is to maintain impartiality in appeals, but in
order to oversee the agencies effectively, he must have some knowledge of their work.
19.   The project helped to address this potential difficulty. First, under the SIRESE
regulations which project consultants helped to prepare, ad hoc intervention by the General
Superintendent in the work of regulators is specifically prohibited. Instead, his reviews are



6
annual and ex-post. The project also financed a study that suggested other practical ways in
which to reduce conflicts between the oversight and appeals functions. For example, all
superintendents are to be evaluated on the same criteria, which should be defined in advance
and focus on broad areas of performance. The first review, covering 1997, puts these ideas
into practice. It provides enough detail to justify its conclusions and suggest areas for
improvement. Yet it does not overstep the mark and encroach on Superintendents' autonomy.
The report paints a clear picture of SIRESE's first year, and will serve as an important
baseline against which to judge future performance.5 Its regular publication could also have
the happy effect of promoting competition arnong the SIRESE agencies as they vie for better
ratings. The monitoring is to be further improved, based on suggestions set out in a
"fiscalization" manual prepared by consultants. This identifies useful performance indicators,
which the General Superintendent is now finalizing for use from 1999 onwards.
20.   The report makes clear the extent of the challenge faced by regulators in the first year,
as delays in the appointment of Superintendents meant that they had to tend immediately to
substantive as well as organizational tasks. Now, however, the SIRESE agencies have been
operating for between two and three years, and on the whole are working well.6 They are
generally well-staffed with qualified professionals, and have made a good start on tackling
regulatory tasks. They are making use of modem regulatory procedures, for example, holding
public hearings on tariff adjustment requests from regulated firms. The telecommunications
agency has shown itself able to analyze and detect anti-competitive behavior, and has imposed
large fines on the long-distance company for price discrimination against certain users. The
Electricity Superintendent has led the way on consumer protection, organizing a campaign to
advise consumers of their rights and establishing effective procedures for handling consumer
complaints. Investors in regulated firms are having their appeals resolved by the General
Superintendent in a timely fashion, within the mandatory periods established by law.
21.   In general therefore, SIRESE is off to a good start, although a few weaknesses in the
system have become apparent. Some regulations need fine-tuning, in particular in electricity
and hydrocarbons, while in transport a new law is required, in order to clarify the division of
responsibilities between the Superintendent and the civil aviation authority. Similarly, a
Basic Sanitation Law is needed to provide the Water Superintendent with a modem legal basis
for his functioning. A draft law has recently been submitted to Congress, and regulations are
well-advanced. It has also become clear that there is a need for greater coordination between
the regulators, policymakers and interested stakeholders. To this end, the General
Superin.endent is discussing with the Government the possibility of creating a committee,
similar although not identical to that operating in the financial sector. It would serve as a
forum for discussion of proposed norms and more generally as a channel for communication
between SIRESE and the executive, private sector and other interested parties.
22.   Probably the most serious problems faced by SIRESE in its first years came with the
change of government in August 1997. This occasioned some public questioning of the
system by prominent members of the governing coalition. Three of six Superintendents
5 Table 4 of Appendix C summarizes the review's fndings, showing ratings given to each agency.
6 See Tables 4 to 8 of Appendix C for data on SIRESE's operation.



7
resigned during this period, to be replaced by interim appointees whose uncertain status
detracted from the system's credibility. IDA played an important role during this time,
discussing with high-level officials the importance of keeping SIRESE independent and
credible. The Government has now publicly reaffirmed its commitment to the principle of
independent regulation. It translated its commitment into action by appointing permanent
Superintendents for Telecommunications, Electricity and Transport. But several important
issues still remain to be resolved. The budget approved for 1998 reduced the SIRESE
agencies' funding, even though they are not financed by the Treasury but by fees on regulated
companies. This year, the submitted budget was approved, but with some limitations on its
use. The Government has also intervened in the question of SIRESE salaries, trying to peg
them to public sector salaries, despite the SIRESE law and regulations, which provide that
they be set by reference to levels prevailing in regulated firms. IDA has supported the
establishment of a joint Govermment-SIRESE commission to address this issue, and is
continuing its support to the SIRESE system through new credits, the Regulatory Reform
Sector Adjustment Credit (RRSAC) and Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical
Assistance Credit (RRPTAC).
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
23.   Ownership of the Reform. A major program of divestiture and regulatory reform
was successfully implemented in Bolivia because there was complete local ownership of the
reform program. Capitalization was a Bolivian idea, and there was full commitment to its
implementation at the highest political levels of government. This commitment did not waver
even when politically sensitive transactions, such as the capitalization of YPFB, came under
attack. Local ownership of the reforms was increased by the use of local experts to form the
core of the working groups handling the reforms in each sector. That Bolivia, one of the
region's poorest countries, was able to assemble the skills needed to manage this complex
reform program is an impressive achievement.
24.   Rapid Pace of Reform. Backed by this full commitment, the capitalization program
proceeded quite rapidly, with four of the six large enterprises capitalized within eighteen
months of this project's approval. Since preparatory work for the transactions began some
time beforehand, the Ministry of Capitalization began to run into cashflow problems early on,
when sectoral TA credits that were to finance some of this work were not yet approved or
effective. This project therefore financed certain expenditures that originally were to be
funded by the sectoral credits, such as most of the costs associated with the electricity
generation capitalizations and part of the retainer to the hydrocarbons investment bank. As a
result, the credit was almost 60% disbursed within a year of becoming effective. Despite this,
financing gaps continued to appear as the Government's reform program expanded, taking in,
for example, water sector privatizations. The IDA country team was able to provide some
additional funds from a Japanese grant and from an existing Private Enterprise Development
Project (Cr.2134-BO), but even so the Ministry of Capitalization had to negotiate bridge loans
to cover its needs. The search for funds took time and attention, both the Ministry's and
IDA's, away from the main issue, the reform program. This problem might not have arisen if
the sectoral loans had been approved and effective sooner. Alternatively, it could have been



8
avoided altogether, by organizing the technical assistance for capitalization transactions,
regardless of sector, into a single operation.
25.   Delays in Establishing SIRESE. Ideally, Superintendents would have been
appointed before transactions took place in their sectors. This would have allowed them time
to establish their offices before having to deal with substantive issues of regulation, and could
have helped also to boost investors' confidence and the levels of their bids. In the end
however, in no sector was a Superintendent in place before capitalization bids were received,
and the main SIRESE regulations were not approved until February 1997, some eighteen
months after the first transaction. Partly this was the result of the Government's focus on the
transactions, understandable given their high-profile nature. Partly it was the result of
Bolivia's limited human resources. Many of the persons with the experience and
qualifications to staff the regulatory agencies were, not surprisingly, acting as local
consultants on the legal reforms and transactions. This made parallel establishment of
SIRESE difficult. The delays caused a few problems with the main technical assistance
contract to SIRESE, which was negotiated and signed before some of the Superintendents
were in place. The services to be provided under the contract had to be adjusted later to take
account of their views and requirements.
26.   Procurement Delays. By June 1997, a year before the original closing date, the credit
was 86% disbursed. Almost all remaining funds were for the purchase of the Superintendency
of Telecommunications' frequency-monitoring equipment. Although procurement of this
equipment began in 1996, delays in the process and in the installation of the equipment made
necessary a five-and-a-half month extension of the closing date. The delays came about partly
because the purchase could not be completed before the Ministry of Capitalization closed, and
responsibility for the component was then transferred to SIRESE, which was obliged to re-
start the process. Turnover in the sectoral Superintendency also contributed to the delay.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The project's achievements are likely to be sustainable. The capitalization
components provided assistance that was by nature short-term. They accomplished their
objective - to transfer ownership of key SOEs to the private sector under conditions that
promote efficiency and competition - and these achievements are not likely to be reversed.
The main political parties in Bolivia are committed to private management of productive
activity. More privatizations are in fact planned, including of remaining portions of
enterprises that were capitalized. Parallel to privatization, the broader program of
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for private investment is continuing. This
will help to ensure that long-term benefits flow from the privatizations. IDA is supporting the
ongoing reforms with a new adjustment operation, the RRSAC, approved in November 1998
and a TA credit, the RRPTAC, approved in June 1998.
28.   The new regulatory system, SIRESE, will also be very important for the long-term
success of the divestiture process. With help from this project, SIRESE is off to a good start,
and its achievements are considered sustainable. The laws and regulations needed for the
system's proper functioning are now in place or being prepared. The SIRESE agencies have



9
been operating on average for over three years now, and they are on the whole well organized,
funded and staffed. They have survived a change of government, inevitably a difficult period.
The present Superintendents have held their positions for an average of 19 months, a measure
of the recent stability of the system, which contrasts with the turbulence of the 1996-97
period.
29.   Although the basic elements of an effective regulatory system are now present, further
improvements to SIRESE are also planned. Coordination between the executive branch and
Superintendents will be formalized and enhanced with the creation of the planned consultative
committee. SIRESE, together with other regulators in Bolivia, is to adopt a "Code of
Conduct" and staffing benchmarks based on international best practice, guidelines which will
promote accountability. These measures were suggested by policymakers and regulators in
Bolivia and enjoy their support. IDA is also giving its backing to these particular
improvements by including them in the conditionality of the new adjustment loan, while the
TA credit will finance preparation of the final laws and regulations needed by SIRESE. Steps
are also being taken to improve public understanding of the new regulatory system. A focus-
group survey commissioned by the General Superintendent in June 1998 found that the public
was still quite uninformed about the workings of SIRESE. The survey indicated, perhaps
understandably, that policymakers, regulated firms and consumers all had different
expectations of the system. These results have led SIRESE to attempt to increase the flow of
information to the public, most recently through publication of a detailed report that explains
the origins of the system, places it in an international context, and reviews its first full year of
operation. IDA will support public education efforts through the TA credit, which includes
financing of a public infornation campaign on regulatory reform and privatization.
30.  In its short life, SIRESE has already had to endure some difficult periods, but the
regulators are slowly beginning to consolidate their operations, build up credibility and
strengthen their public image. The process of institution-building is necessarily a gradual one,
and IDA has recognized this by programming continuing support for SIRESE. In its future
operation, SIRESE will also be able to avail itself of some of the strongest legal safeguards of
independence enjoyed by regulators anywhere. This and continuing IDA assistance should
sustain the agencies through occasionally tense relations with the Government, unavoidable in
a country with no tradition of independent regulation. IDA is also providing support for civil
service and judicial reform in Bolivia, which, if successful, will contribute greatly to the long-
term prospects for SIRESE and private sector development in general.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
31.   Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. Identification was highly satisfactory;
IDA staff immediately acknowledged the priority given to capitalization and recognized the
need for technical assistance. The project provided timely financing of these needs. A PPF
for the reform program was arranged in August 1993. This project was identified in
December 1993, negotiated in mid-May and approved by the Board in July 1994. IDA staff
worked hard to accelerate its preparation, with Board approval coming just three months after
an appropriate implementing agency, the Ministry of Capitalization, was established. The one



10
weakness in project preparation is not specific to this project but concerns the design of the
program of technical assistance in support of capitalization and regulatory reform. The
decision to split the package of assistance along sectoral lines appears to have been supply-
driven, due mainly to the IDA team's sectoral organization, which was mirrored among
government counterparts. This division and subsequent delays in processing the later projects
contributed to the cashflow problems in the Ministry of Capitalization. Perhaps a better
division would have been between the short-term TA support for capitalization (regardless of
sector) and longer-term institution-building efforts for regulatory authorities. Such an
arrangement might also have been more efficient administratively, reducing the need for
multiple implementing agencies in each project.
32.   Project appraisal was sound, with IDA staff recognizing that this project, a kind of
catch-all, was very tightly budgeted, leaving little room to cover any unanticipated expenses.
The project therefore included some unallocated funds to cover unanticipated costs. All the
unallocated funds were in fact needed by the Ministry of Capitalization. IDA staff also
properly appreciated the importance of familiarity with IDA procurement and disbursement
procedures for management of this project, and arranged special training for project staff. The
contact this provided with IDA specialists proved useful during implementation.
33.   Supervision of the project was satisfactory, although IDA staff were forced to spend
considerable time and effort just processing the numerous contracts generated by the project -
about 165, of which most required several amendments. Almost all of these were approved in
the first two years of implementation when prior review was required of all consulting
contracts. On average, therefore, a no-objection would have been issued at least every three
working days. The prior review requirement was meant to address concerns about the
contracting capacity of the Ministry of Capitalization, a new implementing agency. In
practice, prior review by IDA of every single contract was not the efficient way to handle this
issue. IDA staff did make various changes to alleviate this administrative burden and respond
to the early rapid pace of disbursement (raising the prior review level and increasing the
authorized allocation to the special account). The IDA team also demonstrated flexibility and
resourcefulness in finding funds to cover financing gaps that emerged. When the SIRESE
component ran into trouble with the new administration, IDA played an important role in
safeguarding these reforms, discussing with the new Government the importance to
investment and growth of strong, credible regulatory authorities.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   The performance of the borrower was satisfactory overall. Commitment to reform
existed at both the technical and highest political levels of government, and made possible the
relatively rapid implementation of a complex and demanding reform program. Bolivia
tackled time-consuming legal and regulatory reforms, as well as divestiture, to provide a good
basis for efficient private sector activity. As planned, once its key tasks had been completed,
the Ministry of Capitalization closed in July 1997. Thus, it was not possible to get feedback
from the project's key implementing agency for this report. The timing of the SIRESE
reforms could have been better. The Government's focus on the politically sensitive



11
transactions was understandable, but somewhat to the detriment of SIRESE. The tensions that
arose between SIRESE and the new administration undermined the regulators' credibility, but
the Government subsequently declared its commitment to regulatory independence and has
begun to act on its declaration.
35.   As regards capitalization, the performance of the Ministry was highly satisfactory. It
succeeded in putting together good sectoral teams comprising a core of local professionals
backed by international experts as needed. This combination encouraged local ownership of
the reform and increased national accountability while ensuring that the Government had its
disposal advice on international best practice. The project management unit also performed
very well. The project included a very large number of consulting contracts and processing
these placed heavy demands on the unit. They coped very well with the administrative
burden, and in general managed IDA's procurement, disbursement and accounting
requirements well.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The project's outcome is rated satisfactory overall. The bulk of the credit went
towards supporting capitalization and its associated legal reforms, and the results in this area
are rated highly satisfactory. Of the six largest public enterprises, two (ENTEL and LAB)
were capitalized in their entirety. In the national power company (ENDE), three generation
companies were capitalized, and the transmission system and an electricity distribution
company were privatized. The national hydrocarbons company's (YPFB) exploration and
production business, its existing pipelines and the Bolivian portion of the Bolivia-Brazil
natural gas pipeline were capitalized. The national railway (ENFE) was capitalized as two
companies. The project also supported privatization of the three main airports. In general,
there was good investor interest in the transactions, with most attracting several offers,
including from some leading international firms. Only the national smelter (Vinto) failed to
attract a bid. The winning capitalization bids totaled US$1.7 billion, almost a quarter of
Bolivia's GDP.
37.   Not only were the transfers executed successfully, quite rapidly and with transparency,
but Bolivia also established the conditions necessary for long-term benefits to flow from
divestiture. New laws were approved in electricity, telecommunications, hydrocarbons and
mining. In general these provide a sound basis for competition and efficiency, although much
will depend on the new regulatory system, SIRESE. The project outcome with regard to
SIRESE is rated satisfactory. The objective of helping to establish an effective, independent
regulatory system was substantially achieved, although problems did arise. Delays in
appointments made SIRESE's initial year a challenging one. Later, the main problem was
that of managing relations between the regulators and the executive. Still, regulatory
independence was maintained during a difficult transition period, and overall the component's
achievements are considerable. A modern regulatory framework is in place in Bolivia,
including some of the strongest legal guarantees of regulatory independence in the region.
SIRESE agencies on the whole are well funded and staffed and are operating satisfactorily.
They have adopted some of the best practices of international regulation, such as the use of



12
public procedures for decision-making, attention to consumer concerns, and speedy resolution
of appeals from their decisions. Nevertheless, institution-building takes time, and this
project's achievements constitute just the first steps towards the successful development of
regulatory capacity in Bolivia.
38.   The project's immediate goals were to assist transactions and help establish new
agencies. But these were intermediate objectives, pursued as means to the more important
ends of increased investment, efficiency and growth. It is still too soon to judge the reform
program's effects on these longer-term goals. A proper study would be needed to try to
distinguish between the impact of the reform and the impact of macroeconomic, industry or
other factors. The Government would in fact like to see this kind of study attempted. Until
then, the available evidence suggests that the reform is having the desired effects.' There was
an immediate and strong increase in private investment following capitalization. In 1997, it
reached an estimated 11.5 percent of GDP, almost double the 5.9 percent attained in 1994, the
last full year before capitalization. This investment has brought a rapid expansion of
coverage-- in infrastructure, companies appear to be reaching and, in some cases, exceeding
their investment obligations. In electricity, installed capacity increased some 40 percent by
1998. The telephone penetration rate rose from 3.6 percent in 1994 to 6.47 percent by end-
1997 (wire and wireless). Lifeline telephone services were extended to over 770 isolated
villages between 1996-98. Also, the number of cellular telephones increased from barely
5,000 to about 200,000 between 1994-98. In hydrocarbons, investments planned over the
next eight years triple historical levels of investment in the sector (including past private
investment). The Bolivia-Brazil pipeline has been completed and will soon begin transporting
natural gas to Sao Paulo, generating important export eamings. With regard to productivity,
there is some evidence that the impact has been positive, although this issue requires more
careful analysis. Sales and profits of the capitalized companies have generally increased,
notably in the long-distance telephone company and the railways, while employment has
remained stable, except in the railways where further lay-offs have taken place. It also
appears that the pace of economic growth is improving. The 1994-1997 average of 4.4
percent GDP growth is an improvement over previous years, and official estimates are of
stable growth of 6 percent by 2002.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
39.   Capitalization accomplished the transfer to private ownership of the five largest public
enterprises, and the parallel program of privatization involved the sale of some 50 small- and
medium-sized enterprises. The Government is now pursuing the privatization of remaining
state-owned assets, including the smelter, remaining portions of YPFB, ENFE and ENDE,
water companies, and about 50 smaller enterprises of which 40 are operated by the military.
Under the RRPTAC, the Government and IDA will agree every six months on the priority list
of enterprises to be privatized and progress will be tracked by reference to these plans.
7 For a fuller discussion of the reform program and its outcome, see the Implementation Completion Report of
the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit.



13
40.   This credit and the accompanying adjustment operation, the RRSAC, will also support
the deepening of regulatory reform. Performance indicators for future operation were defined
under these credits, having been first discussed at the 1998 Consultative Group meeting.
They will track the broad impact of the reforms, such as on levels of private investment in the
economy. The detailed indicators which the General Superintendent is now agreeing with
sectoral Superintendents will permit closer monitoring. This comprehensive list includes
measures of administrative efficiency, regulatory effectiveness, attention to consumers, as
well as measures of performance of the regulated companies.8
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
* Where there is full commitment, both at technical and political levels of Government,
major reform is possible. The Bolivian program demonstrates this principle well, having
been implemented in a challenging environment: a country with less developed economic
infrastructure and weak institutional capacity.
* Divestiture needs strong leadership and access to the highest levels of government for
decisions to be taken quickly.
* Privatizations should be preceded by establishment of a legal and regulatory framework
designed to promote competition and efficiency.
* Divestitures, especially of large SOEs, are high-profile events and governments tend
understandably to focus on transactions to the detriment of accompanying legal and
regulatory reforns. IDA can play a key role by emphasizing these latter aspects through
advice, guidance on best practice and initial financing of regulatory agencies.
* Providing technical assistance to a reform program through a free-standing credit (separate
from an adjustment operation) allows maximum flexibility. As in this case, technical
assistance can support preparatory efforts, thus allowing commitment to be demonstrated
and up-front conditionality on an adjustment operation to be satisfied.
*  Short-term technical assistance for divestiture is better provided through a single operation
rather than several sector-specific credits.
* Since the priorities for privatization may shift during project implementation, technical
assistance operations supporting such efforts should allow for some flexibility.
* IDA's procedures of prior review, including its information systems, are not designed to
handle TA projects involving numerous contracts. They are onerous and do not serve as
efficient abuse-prevention mechanisms. Higher prior review thresholds combined with
effective ex-post review mechanisms would be more efficient.
s See Table 6 of Part II for details of indicators under discussion.



14
*  Divestiture transactions are best managed by a strong core of local professionals with
advice from high-calibre international firms and consultants. This ensures that
transactions are well handled while encouraging local ownership and accountability.
*  Public information campaigns should be used to disseminate information on the benefits
of divestiture programs, but they should not be expected to eliminate all opposition to
reform.
*  Institution-building takes time, and is best supported by a program- rather than project-
approach. Thus the support provided by this project to SIRESE will be continued under
recently approved projects, and even further follow-up could be required.
*  A rigorous, comprehensive evaluation of the impact of such regulatory reform and
divestiture programs should be conducted several years after their implementation. This
analysis should focus particularly on how these reforms have affected the poor.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                 x
Sector policies                x
Financial objectives           x
Institutional development      x
Physical objectives                                                    x
Poverty reduction                                                      x
Gender issues                                                          x
Other social objectives                                                x
Environmental objectives                                               x
Public sector management       x
Private sector development     x
B. Project Sustainability           Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                      x
Preparation assistance                                x
Appraisal                                             x
Supervision                                           x
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Not Applicable
Preparation                         x
Implementation                                        x
Covenant compliance                                   x
Operation                                             x
Highly                                  Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome
x



16
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Credit Title                               Purpose                    Approved         Status
Preceding operations
Export Corridors (2012-BO)               Expand and rehabilitate rail and road network.  FY89        Closed
Mining Sector Rehabilitation (2013-BO)   Promote private investment in mining and      FY89          Closed
restructure COMIBOL into holding company.
Private Enterprise Development (2134-BO)    Strengthen the private industrial sector through  FY90   Closed
improved access to credit and business
development services.
Structural Adjustment Credit (2298-BO)   Help to restructure financial sector, public  FY92          Closed
enterprises and public investment.
Following operations
Judicial Reform (2705-BO)                Modernize justice administration focusing on  FY95         Underway
civil and commercial branches in order to
provide efficient and predictable framework
for enforcement of private rights.
Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit  Support establishment of legal and regulatory  FY96        Closed
(2761-BO)                                framework for private investment and help to
divest key public enterprises.
Hydrocarbons Sector Reform & Capitalization  Support capitalization of YPFB and        FY96          Closed
Technical Assistance (2762-BO)           establishment of regulatory framework.
Financial Markets & Pension Reform       Support implementation of pension reform and  FY96          Closed
Technical Assistance (2789-BO)           further strengthening of financial sector.
Power Sector Reform Technical Assistance  Support privatization of transmission and    FY96         Underway
(2790-BO)                                establishment of regulatory framework.
Regulatory Reform & Privatization Technical  Support independence of regulatory        FY98         Underway
Assistance (3108-BO)                     framework, stability of financial sector and
improve key infrastructure services.
Regulatory Reform Structural Adjustment  Support independence of regulatory            FY98         Underway
Credit (3143-BO)                         framework, stability of financial sector and
improve key infrastructure services.



17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned    |     Actual Date
Identification/Preparation                                 December 1993
Appraisal                                                  April 1994
Negotiations                                               May 26-27, 1994
Board Presentation                                         July 26, 1994
Signing                                                    July 28, 1994
Effectiveness                         October 26, 1994     January 4, 1995
Credit Closing                        June 30, 1998        December 15, 1998
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ millions)
FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99
Appraisal Estimate               5.0       9.0      13.0       14.7       -
Actual                           4.1      10.8       12.5      13.7      15.4
Actual as % of Estimate         82%       120%      96%        93%
Date of Final Disbursement      April 30, 1999



18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
EXPECTED PROJECT OUPUTS          EXPECTED TIMING       ACTUAL OUTPUT / TIMING
CAPITALIZATION MINISTRY
Laws and regulations in the      Laws by first quarter    All laws and regulations approved, except for
electricity, telecommunications,  1995. Regulations by   railways law, which was later deemed not
hydrocarbons, mining and railways   end-1995.          essential for reform. Expected timing
sectors and regulations for the                        ambitious. Final law approved early 1997;
aviation sector.                                       final regulations approved 7/97, but fine-tuning
is ongoing.
Capitalization of six SOEs and   By second quarter     Capitalization of five SOEs and privatization of
privatization of AASANA.         1997.                 AASANA accomplished by expected date. No
bids received on one SOE, the smelter.
National and international public  For two years from  Campaigns organized and launched on time.
information campaigns.           third quarter 1994.   Local campaign had to continue into 1997 to
explain share distribution scheme which could
not begin until pension reform accomplished;
pension law approved 11/96.
SIRESE
Establishment of SIRESE agencies.                      General and sectoral Superintendents appointed
after slight delay. Some positions later vacant
or filled by interim appointees for several
months. Pernanent Superintendent for water
sector still to be appointed. Awaiting approval
by Congress of Basic Sanitation Law.
Technical assistance package for  Fourth quarter 1994 to  Start of main TA contract delayed until fourth
SIRESE, including resident advisor  second quarter 1995.    quarter 1995 as SIRESE appointments also
and development of policy and                          delayed. Included full-time advisor resident
personnel manuals                                      part-time and production of manuals.
Training of SIRESE staff.        Fourth quarter 1994 to  Start of training delayed for reasons above.
second quarter 1996.
Contacts with regulatory agencies in  Fourth quarter 1994 to   Start delayed. Useful contacts made.
other countries.                 second quarter 1996.
Installation of specialized      Second quarter 1994 to  Procurement delays. Installation completed
telecommunications equipment.    fourth quarter 1996.    end-1998.
lPreparation of restructuring     Fourth quarter 1994 to   On advice of sectoral experts, aviation reform
proposal for TAM and TAB.        fourth quarter 1995.    required only that subsidies to TAM and TAB
be eliminated. Accomplished early 1995.
Plans to fully privatize TAM and TAB given
lower priority.
Note: This project was prepared when performance indicators were not yet included as a matter of course in
project documentation. Schedule 1 of the MOP defined key monitorable project outputs as summarized above.



19
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
INSTITUTION                    INDICATORS
All SIRESE sectoral            Annual budget (executed)/ Population
Superintendencies              Annual budget (executed)/ Clients of regulated companies
Annual budget (executedy Employees
Executed budget / Planned budget
Actual regulatory fee / Maximum regulatory fee
Technical personnel / Management Personnel
Technical and management personnel / Support personnel
Resolutions appealed / Resolutions issued
Consumer complaints attended / Consumer complaints lodged
Electricity                    KWh billed / Employees of generation companies
KWh billed Employees of distribution companies
KWh billed Employees of regulated companies
KWh / Consumers
Growth in number of consumers
Growth in energy sales
Transmission losses
Distribution losses
Telecommunications             Percentage of network digitalized
Localities with basic telephone service
Fixed-line penetration rate
Mobile telephone penetration rate
Waiting period for connection
Growth in number of telephone lines
Transport                      Average domestic tariff (US$) / flight hour
Average passenger train fare / kilometer
Average cargo train fare / kilometer
Growth in international air passenger traffic
Growth in domestic air cargo
Growth in international air cargo
Growth in train passenger traffic
Growth in train cargo
Growth in train cargo exports
Growth in cargo and mail handled by regulated airports
Growth in domestic passenger traffic at regulated airports
Growth in international passenger traffic at regulated airports
Occupation factor on trains
Occupation factor on airplanes



20
INSTITUTION                     INDICATORS
Water                           Average consumption
Employees of regulated companies / Thousand potable water connections
Water billed / Water produced
Sewerage connections / Water connections
Growth in number of consumers
Hydrocarbons                    Transport capacity used / Installed capacity
Growth in natural gas consumption
Growth in natural gas exports
Growth in refining
Govermment                      Private investment as % of GDP increases
Private investment in local service providers increases
Entry of firms in regulated sectors increases
Number of SOEs offered for sale/concession
Revenues from privatization
Note: The SIRESE indicators are still being agreed between the General Superintendent and SIRESE agencies.
Other indicators are established in the CAS, RRSAC and RRPTAC, and are to be monitored thereunder.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
N.A.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)                 Actual (US$m)
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total
Ministry of Capitalization   2.21        5.35        7.56         2.11        12.31       14.42
Telecormmunications Sector   1.50        8.30        9.80         0.89        8.83         9.72
Aviation Sector              0.32        3.12        3.44         0.35        2.62         2.97
SIRESE                      0.20         1.30        1.50         0.25        1.36         1.61
Refinancing of PPF            -          1.00         1.00         -          0.99         0.99
TOTAL                       4.23        19.07       23.30        3.60        26.11        29.71
Note:  - "Telecommunications" includes both the capitalization and regulatory components for the sector.
- See Table I of Part III for use of project funds, reported in SDRs.



21
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)                      Actual (US$m)
Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign        Total
Government of Bolivia           3.23         2.37          5.60         2.26          9.03         11.29
IDA                             0.50         14.20         14.70         0.84         14.58         15.42
Government of France                         0.70          0.70                       0.70          0.70
Multilateral Investment Fund    0.50         1.80          2.30          0.50         1.80          2.30
TOTAL                          4.23         19.07         23.30         3.60         26.11         29.71
Note:   - "Government of Bolivia" includes success fees financed by winning bidders.
- IDA financing differs from appraised amount because of exchange rate fluctuations.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
N.A.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section   Covenant Status  Original   Revised               Description of                 Comments
type         f fulfillment fulfillment            covenant
date       date
CREDIT AGREEMENT
2.02 (b)       3       C                          Borrower to open and maintain Special  Complied with.
Account in Central Bank.
3.01 (a)       5       C   Continuous             Borrower to carry out project with due   Complied with.
diligence through MOC
3.02           5       C   Continuous             Procurement requirements            Complied with.
4.01(a)        I       C   Continuous             Separate accounts and records to be  Complied with.
maintained.
4.01(b)          _     C      Annual              Provide annual audit reports to IDA  Complied with.
4.01(c)        I       C   Continuous             Maintain records of SOE expenditures   Complied with.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                               5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               agency
4. =  Counterpart funding                           9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with                     CP =   complied with partially
CD =  complied with after delay                  NC =   not complied with



22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project complied with Operational Manual Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle          Actual
Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal          _          4.1
Appraisal-Board                      *       2.0
Negotiations through Board Approval   8.1   16.2
Supervision                       75.7     227.4
Completion                         5.5       6.0
TOTAL                            89.3     255.7
* The time used was included in the Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2761-BO).



23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized        Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of       Month!       of         Days in       Staff Skills         tation        ment         Types of
Project Cycle     Year      Persons       Field       Represented           Status      Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal     12/93        8            14
Appraisal through     4/94         5            10 t o
Board Approval         5194        3            3
Supervision           10/94        6            12       Privatization            HS            HS
Regulatory
Aviation
Telecom
3/95        4            7        Privatization            HS            HS
Regulatory
9/95        3            7        Hydrocarbon              HS            HS
Privatization
Telecom
3/96        4            12       Privatization            HS            HS
Regulatory
Disbursement
12/96        5           9        Privatization            HS             HS
Regulatory
Aviation
3/97         1           7        Regulatory                S             S
11/97        4           10       Privatization             U             S
Regulatory
Economist
6/9S        2            7        Privatization             S             S
Economist
Completion            12/98        3            7        Privatization
Telecom
____ ____  PSD                 _   _  _  _



24
APPENDICES



25
APPENDIX A. AIDE MEMOIRE
Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance (Cr. 2647-BO)
Supervision Mission: December 8-10, 1998
1.    A mission of the International Development Association comprised of Susan
Goldmark (task manager), Eloy Vidal (telecommunications expert) and Alison Beck (task
team member) visited La Paz to conduct the final supervision of the Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Project. The mission met with Ministry of Finance
representatives, including Minister Herbert Muller, Vice-Minister Alberto Valdes, Marianella
Zeballos, the General Superintendent of SIRESE, Claude Besse and members of his staff, and
Superintendent of Telecommunications Guido Loayza and other staff members of this
Superintendency. The mission's objective was to review project progress during the last six
months, and to finalize plans for the project's closing on December 15, 1998. Mission
members wish to sincerely thank their Bolivian counterparts, as well as the staff of the
Resident Mission, for their time and assistance during our visit.
2.    Project Objectives and Implementation: The credit's objectives were to assist the
Government to: (i) establish an appropriate legal and regulatory framework to attract private
investment and spur growth in an efficient manner; and (ii) divest and capitalize key large
public enterprises in the hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity, mining and transport
sectors. Nearly all project funds were disbursed two years ago, and the remaining funds--for
spectrum monitoring equipment--will be disbursed by April 15, 1999 at the latest. The credit
has helped to establish the SIRESE system, and has assisted with the capitalization of public
enterprises in all targeted sectors, specifically ENTEL, LAB and key parts of ENDE, ENFE
and YPFB. It also helped to fund the privatization of some key enterprises, including the
Cochabamba electricity distribution company and the three main airports. This mission
focused on gathering informnation in three areas: (i) purchase of telecommunications spectrum
monitoring equipment and training of staff in its use; (ii) progress made in contracted studies;
and (iii) overall functioning of the SIRESE system.
3.    Radio Spectrum Management and Monitoring System. The Government requested
and IDA's country management unit agreed to extend the closing date of the project by 5.5
months to December 15, 1998, to allow for the shipment, installation, and testing of the
spectrum monitoring system, as well as training of staff in its use. The Superintendency of
Telecommunications finished the civil works in the monitoring sites, including the installation
of the tower and the antennae. The mission inspected the monitoring stations and control
center in La Paz, and found that the buildings, towers and radiation systems were built
according to professional standards and received assurances that the sites in Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz were built according to the same standards.
4.    The system is scheduled to be fully installed and tested by late December- January 15,
1999. The training of staff will start next week, and will last two weeks. An outstanding
payment of 20% is due to the supplier upon finai commissioning. Since satisfactory evidence



26
indicates that the installation will be completed soon after the project closing, the mission and
the Government confirmed that the project will not be extended. However, the Bank will
disburse this payment to the UNDP account (the procurement agent), to be paid to the supplier
only after satisfactory completion of the final acceptance tests.
5.    Sector Studies. Consultants hired by the General Superintendency of SIRESE
produced the following studies, as planned, during the last six months: Manual de
Fiscalizaci6n, Analisis y Altemativas de la Fiscalizaci6n, Consejo Normativo, Borrador de
Ley de Procedimientos Administrativos, Informe Anual de 1997. The mission has received
copies of all these studies. The Informe Annual de 1998 is scheduled to be completed in June
1999. Further work on the administrative procedures law is now continuing within the
executive branch. The audit firm for the project has been contracted, and, it was agreed with
the General Superintendent of SIRESE that the audit report would be completed no later than
two months after all disbursements have been made.
6.    Functioning of SIRESE System. The mission noted that the overall situation of
SIRESE has improved substantially in the past six months. Specifically, the appointment of
qualified, permanent Superintendents for the Electricity and Transport sectors in July 1998
serves as the basis for strengthening regulatory capacity in these sectors. The role of and
financing for the Superintendency of Transport is being defined more clearly by a new
General Transport Law currently under preparation. A draft law of Basic Sanitation will also
establish the policy framework for this sector; after its passage, the Government intends to
appoint a permanent Superintendent of Basic Services. Both are critical steps in trying to
improve services in this sector. The Telecommunications Superintendency also appears to be
well-staffed and assuming its regulatory functions; for example, it fined ENTEL US$2 million
for overpaying on certain inputs. The Electricity Superintendency has developed a good
consumer complaint system in major cities of the country which spurs improved service.
While still in early stages of development and suffering some teething problems, after only
three years of functioning, the system appears to be solidifying and has gained greater
acceptance.
7.    Sustainability of the System  The basic objective of establishing an independent
regulatory system has been achieved. However, critical issues remain to be resolved. The
system is to be further strengthened through two new projects financed by the Bank: (i) the
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (RPTAC); and (ii) the
Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit (RRSAC). The RPTAC will support the
adjustment operation by financing technical assistance to deepen regulatory reforms in various
sectors. During the RRSAC negotiations in early November, the Government and the
superintendencies agreed to forn a committee to resolve the previously identified issue of
remuneration levels of Superintendency staff. This group has not yet met and the issue still
remains unresolved. Additionally, during these same discussions, the Superintendents agreed
to contract studies to define performance standards (including staffing targets) and "Codes of
Conduct", as a form of self-regulation. The mission also participated in the Project Launch
for the RPTAC-including a seminar in which the participating superintendencies and



27
sectoral ministries further defined their action plans for deepening of the regulatory system
under the new credit.
8.   Implementation Completion Report The Ministry of Finance and the IDA mission
agreed that drafts of both sections of the implementation completion report (IDA and the
Government's) would be completed by mid-May to avoid a last minute rush. The
Government's section should be no longer than 10 pages long and will need to be translated
into English. The ICR must be sent to IDA's Board no later than June 15, 1999.
Alberto Valdes                                   SusantGgdmark
Vice-Minister                                    Sector eader/Task Manager
Ministry of Finance                              IDA
(Confirmation via e-mail)
December 18, 1998



28
APPENDIX B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION AND COMMENTS
REGULATORY REFORM AND
CAPITALIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2647-BO)
PROJECT BACKGROUND
The Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project was prepared and
approved in 1994 to support the previous administration's capitalization program. The program
was of Bolivian design, although its eventual emphasis on legal and regulatory reform was
strongly encouraged by IDA, which focused much of its support on these reforms. This project
was designed mainly to provide flexible cross-sectoral support to the Ministry of Capitalization
and to the regulatory system, SIRESE.
Preparation of the ICR began in June 1998. The Government, SIRESE and IDA have worked
closely on the evaluation of the regulatory components of the project. However, the closure of
the other implementing agency, the Ministry of Capitalization, in July 1997 made it difficult to
assess the implementation experience of the capitalization and privatization components.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
CAPITALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION
The project objectives were to assist in: (i) the planning, design and execution of the
Government's capitalization program, with particular emphasis on the telecommunications and
aviation sectors; and (ii) the design, establishment and initial operation of a regulatory
framework for these sectors. Two of the largest public firms, LAB, the Bolivian airline, and
ENTEL, the telecommunications company, were completely transferred to the private sector,
while the other three enterprises were only partially transferred. The Government's current
privatization program now includes plans for the transfer of many of the remaining assets of
ENDE, ENFE, YPFB and the Vinto smelter as well as companies owned by the armed forces.
SITUATION OF THE CAPITALIZED COMPANIES
ENDE - This project provided technical assistance to help capitalize three generation companies:
Guaracachi, Corani and Valle Hermoso. In addition, it financed advisors to help privatize the
Cochabamba electricity distribution company. Another IDA project assisted in the privatization
of the electricity transmission company. At present, some assets still owned by the state
electricity company, Ende, are in the process of being sold. These include parts of smaller local
distribution companies.



29
ENFE was capitalized by Cruz Blanca, a Chilean company. A residual ENFE comprised of
some of the assets (i.e. real estate) and liabilities of the old company still exists and is in the
process of liquidation.
The state petroleum company YPFB was divided into three companies that were capitalized:
Transredes S.A. which includes the Bolivian portion of the Bolivia-Brazil pipeline, other export
pipelines and the local pipeline network; and the exploration and production areas of Chaco and
Andina. The gas pipeline to Brazil has been constructed and was inaugurated in February
1999-natural gas exports are expected to have an important effect on Bolivia's economy.
Investment in gas exploration and production has also increased greatly from an average of
US$ 100 million in the years before 1997 to about US$800 per annum beginning in 1999.
At the moment, some services remain under the property of residual YPFB: i) refineries, ii)
natural gas distribution networks, iii) storage plants; iv) service stations; and v) gas bottling
plants. These services will be totally privatized by the end of 1999 and YPFB will only serve as
a counterpart of shared risk agreements in exploration and production contracts.
REGULATORY REFORM: DESIGN AND FUNCTIONING OF SIRESE
The project focused upon creating an adequate regulatory framework to accompany the change
of ownership of key companies from the State to the private sector. This involved the design and
promulgation of sector specific laws and regulations and the creation of SIRESE, the regulatory
body created to ensure compliance with this legal framework. The initial proposal was for a
multi-sectoral regulatory commission, which would have encouraged pooling of resources that
were not sector-specific, such as lawyers and economists.
The eventual model was a hybrid, with each sector regulated separately, but review and
coordination provided by a General Superintendent. At the design stage, there was also some
discussion as to whether the General Superintendent's functions would be better performed by a
commission or by an individual. Finally, the previous Government decided that Bolivia's
experience with commissions had not been very successful. Thus, it was believed that greater
accountability would be encouraged by giving responsibility to a single person. The opinion of
the current administration is that a collegiate body could have been more appropriate. However,
to maintain stability, the former system has not been changed.
Although SIRESE's functions are clear in the Law (coordination, fiscalization; administration of
resources), in practice, there may be conflicts among these functions. One potential conflict of
interest was cited between the fiscalization and appeals functions of the General
Superintendency. Consultants financed by the project (OXERA) recently completed a study
whose objective was the reduction of the potential conflict between these two functions.
OXERA concluded that there was no conflict on this issue and that the appeals function was
included in the fiscalization function because the first comes before the second. However, in the
case of the financial sector regulation system, the functions of the superintendent of appeals has
been limited only to appeals to avoid potential conflicts. In any case, the issue is still there.



30
At the moment, SIRESE's legal framework is composed of the SIRESE Law, the Electricity,
Telecommunications and Hydrocarbons Laws and their respective regulations. Prices and rates
for the five regulated sectors have been set in accordance with these legal dispositions. This
administration has drafted a Basic Sanitation Law covering the water and sewage function which
has been submitted to Congress for consideration in July 1999.
The SIRESE system is completed by five sector Superintendencies. Since they were set up,
these five Superintendencies (Water, Electricity, Hydrocarbons, Telecommunications and
Transport) have resolved 117 first-level appeals. The SIRESE General Superintendency, as the
system's highest authority for administrative justice, has resolved 48 second-level appeals.
It is important to stress that attending to customer complaints is also part of the SIRESE
Superintendencies' regulatory function. The Customer Services Office (ODECO) system was set
up for this purpose. This functions at two levels, with offices located within the companies
providing the service, which have so far dealt with 138,000 complaints, and offices in the
Sectoral Superintendencies, which have dealt with 1,230 complaints. These customer service
offices are currently most advanced in the electricity sector, which has established 56 such
offices in the companies involved.
Furthermore, one of the SIRESE Sectoral Superintendencies fundamental activities is to award
licences to operators. As part of this activity, 1,085 existing operators have been included in the
new regulatory framework and licences have been awarded to 622 new operators. The
Government has sought to ensure that the activities under SIRESE's jurisdiction are: i) efficient
ii) contribute to the development of the economy; and iii) providing the public access to essential
services. These objectives intend to guarantee that the interests of the customers and companies
that are being regulated enjoy the full protection of the law.
On the issue of SIRESE's independence and credibility, it has to be noted that the current
administration always affirmed its commitment to the principle of independent regulation.
Superintendents appointed by the previous administration--such as the Superintendent of Banks,
the general Superintendent of SIRESE and the Hydrocarbons Superintendent have continued
with support from this administration. After the resignation of three superintendents for personal
reasons, the current Administration replaced them with technical specialists.
Even if these Superintendencies are independent, they remain under the tuition of the
Government. SIRESE is under the tuition of the Ministry of Economic Development. Since
these institutions are part of the Executive Branch, they have to follow the same rules as those of
the rest of the Govermment: i) their budget has to be approved by the Congress and ii) salaries
cannot exceed the level designated by a general norm. And, while SIRESE's revenues stem from
regulated firms rather than the Treasury, all the resources of the institutions of the State have to
be inscribed in the General Budget of the Nation. As a consequence, any resources that are spent
may contribute to the fiscal deficit. Thus, the issues of the Superintendents' budgets and salary
scales are under review and a satisfactory solution is anticipated.



31
OBJECTIVE OF RESPECT TO THE MARKET RULES
Nowadays, some companies have strong lobbying powers. This situation has caused pressure to
be exerted on the Executive Power. In order to avoid this kind of problem, the SIRESE system
aims to establish stable rules of the game. This means that if a company decides to invest in
Bolivia, there will not be no reason to make special rules for it; furthermore, it will be subject to
the same market forces as the existing Bolivian companies.
PROBLEMS
The SIRESE system is still relatively new and continues to develop. However, the system would
be improved if there were better coordination with the Executive Branch. For example, it would
be useful for the Executive Branch to consult with SIRESE technical specialists as well as other
interested stakeholders prior to drafting new norms. This problem has begun to be solved. A
preliminary proposal for a Supreme Decree on the Sectoral Regulation System Standards
Advisory Council (CONOSI) is currently under discussion. This proposal aims to improve co-
ordination mechanisms between the executive branch, the SIRESE Superintendencies and other
interested stakeholders.
SUSTAINABILITY
The Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project was closed in end 1998.
The reforms relating to divestitures and the establishment of a regulatory framework are expected
to be sustained. The sustainability of SIRESE has been ensured with the designation of new
Superintendencies and the continuation of the former General Superintendency and the
Superintendency of Hydrocarbons. New Superintendents were appointed in the areas of
Telecommunications, Transport. and Electricity. The Government is committed to appointing a
permanent Superintendent of Basic Sanitation once the Basic Sanitation Law has been passed.
Currently, the regulatory reforms have helped to increase private sector activity in Bolivia and to
encourage efficiency in these services. Consolidation of the reforms will continue with the new
adjustment and technical assistance credits (such as 3108-BO). The preparation and approval of
important new laws to help consolidate these reforms, such as the Administrative Procedures
Law and a new Transport Law are underway.
Furthermore, SIRESE had positive results during fiscal year 1997. In fact, the regulator's 1997
annual report stated that the Superintendencies of Telecommunications, Electricity and
Transports were efficient and effective in their respective tasks.
LESSONS LEARNED
PUBLIC INFORMATION CAMPAIGN
Privatization transactions are not just technically challenging, but also have important political
repercussions. A lesson for fiuture privatizations is that public perceptions of the transactions
need to be better understood and addressed by public information campaigns. Less emphasis
should be given to technical aspects that are not well understood by the majority of the



32
population. The Government appreciates that important political and social issues surround
privatizations and that efforts had to be made to improve communication, with less emphasis
given to technical issues. The design of information campaigns should take account of the
characteristics of the population, including literacy rates and access to different media.
IMPLEMENTATION
The reforms were undertaken during the whole previous government through the Minister of
Capitalization. Under the previous administration, the financial benefits of the capitalization
program were expected to be seen through the transfer of shares to privately-managed funds with
annual distributions to those over age 65. However, the first distribution of proceeds carried out
in mid 1997(US$250 per capita) was supposed to be a benefit to the aged. Indeed, the process
resulted in more beneficiaries than expected due to some fraud and amounted to three years of
the annual public investment program. Because of the long-term unsustainability of the Bonosol
at the level which had been distributed during its first year and the fact that it only benefited
those 65 and over, the new Government introduced the Property and Popular Credit Law which
allocates 70% of the capitalization funds to Popular Shares (Acciones Populares) in mutual
funds, ownership of which will be given to all Bolivians who were 21-49 in 1995. This will have
the additional benefit of fostering the development of domestic capital markets. The second
alternative benefit is the "BOLIVIDA", a lifetime pension for citizens who were over the age of
50 on December 31th, 1995. Distributions are expected to begin after the new registration of
Bolivian citizens and the public listing of shares.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS OF THE PROJECT
The first objective of the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project was
the strengthening of the capacity of the Ministry of Capitalization to make the necessary reforms
to privatize the public companies. However, much of the population did not understand the idea
of capitalization and many economists agreed that "privatization" was a much better option.
Funds derived through privatization could have been used by the Treasury for social sector
programs.
The Government believes that it would be useful to evaluate the impact of the capitalization,
privatization and regulatory reforn program on the country's economy and particularly in terms
of impact on service quality, quantity, location and prices with particular analysis on its impact
on the poor. This evaluation should compare these benefits with the financial costs of the
program, of which this project is a part.



33
APPENDIX C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS
TABLE 1: USE OF PROJECT FUNDS
Category  COMPONENT                                  ALLOCATION (SDRS) / PERCENTAGE
PLANNED                 ACTUAL
CAPITALIZATION                             5,440,000    52%       6,763,332     64%
I-a, 2-a    Ministry of Capitalization Strengthening  1,960,000    19%       3,499,042     33%
3         Public Information Campaign                  700,000       7%        696,754      7%
1-c-i     Telecommunications Capitalization           1,560,000    15%       1,255,472     12%
1-d       Aviation Sector                             1,220,000    12%       1,312,064     13%
REGULATORY REFORM                          3,280,000    31%       3,055,946     29%
1-b       SIRESE Strengthening                         510,000      5%         922,646      9%
4         SIRESE Training                              430,000      4%          43,500     0.4%
1 -c-ii, 2-b   Telecommunications Superintendency    2,340,000     22%       2,089,800     20%
5         REFUNDING OF PPF                             710,000      7%         680,723      7%
6         UNALLOCATED                                 1,070,000    10%         -
TOTAL                                    10,500,000  100%       10,500,000    100%
Notes: - Numbers in first column refer to disbursement categories as defined in the Credit Agreement.
- The aviation component includes some expenditures on regulatory reform.
- Percentages may not sum due to rounding.
- Categories I a & 2a helped to finance sectoral reform and transactions in the power, hydrocarbons, mining
and railways sectors.
TABLE 2: CAPITALIZATION TRANSACTIONS
ENT'ERPRISE                                  BID        NUMBER    BOOK         WINNING       PRE-
DATE         OF BIDS    VALUE         BID       MIUM
______ _ _ __ _(Sm)       (Sm)
Corani (ENDE Generation)                                    4         33.0        58.8       78%
Guaracachi (ENDE Generation)              June 1995         6         35.3        47.1       33%
Valle Hermoso (ENDE Generation)                             3         30.8        33.9       10%
ENTEL (Telecommunications)             September 1995       3         130.0      610.0       369%
LAB (Airline)                           October 1995        1         24.0        47.5       98%
ENFE Red Andina (Railways)             December 1995        1         29.0        13.3      -54%
ENFE Red Oriental (Railways)                                1         24.0        25.9        8%
Andina (Exploration & Production)                           3         130.0      264.8       104%
Chaco (Exploration & Production)       December 1996        2         155.8      306.7       97%
Transportadora (Hydrocarbons Pipelines)                     3         97.2       263.5       171%
TOTAL                                                      27        689.1       1,671.5    143%



34
TABLE 3: PRIVATIZATION TRANSACTIONS 1995-1998
(In US$'000)
1995             1996              1997              1998
Number of Transactions                 28                21                1                 2
Revenues                             66,142            31,338              12              9,889
TABLE 4: SIRESE EVALUATION 1997
SUPERINTENDENCY
AREA                                                                                                   I
Electricity  Telecommunications     Transport       Hydrocarbons
A. EFFICIENCY                       Adequate          Adequate           Adequate         Adequate
Institutional Development          Adequate          Adequate           Adequate           Good
Administrative Systems             Inadequate        Inadequate        Inadequate        Inadequate
Strategy                           Adequate          Adequate           Adequate          Adequate
Resources                            Good            Adequate           Adequate           Good
B. EFFECTIVENESS                    Adequate          Adequate          Adequate          Adequate
Operators' Compliance              Adequate          Adequate           Adequate         Adequate
Award of Concessions/Licenses      Adequate          Adequate           Adequate           Good
Prices & Tariffs                   Adequate            Good             Adequate          Adequate
Protection of Competition          Adequate          Adequate          Inadequate         Adequate
Supervision & Monitoring           Inadequate        Adequate            Good            Adequate
Appeals                            Adequate         Inadequate          Adequate          Adequate
Attention to Consumers               Good           Inadequate         Inadequate        Inadequate
Note: These ratings are taken from the first annual "fiscalization" report issued by the General Superintendent. The
Water Superintendent is not covered by the report as operations were just beginning in July 1997.



35
TABLE 5: TENURE OF SIRESE SUPERINTENDENTS
(Months)
Superintendency_ Appointment                          Time since
Date            Type        Duration to date   Establishment
General                        November 1995      Permanent            12              43
November 1996        Vacant             4
March 1997       Permanent           27
Electricity                      June 1996        Permanent            19              36
July 1997        Interim             3
October 1997      Interim*            10
August 1998      Permanent            10
Telecommunications             November 1995      Permanent           23               43
October 1997       Interim*            2
December 1997      Permanent           18
Transport                       March 1996        Permanent           21               39
November 1997        Vacant             8
.                             August 1998       Permanent           10
Hydrocarbons                     April 1996        Interim             11              38
March 1997       Permanent           27                        l
Water                            June 1997          Interim           24               24
Average of all appointees                                              16              37
Average of incumbent                                                   19       l                l
Note: Asterisked interim appointees were later confirmed as permanent Superintendents.
TABLE 6: SIRESE BUDGETS 1997-1999
(Bolivianos)
Superintendency              1997       Growth       1998       Growth        1999       Growth
General                     11,492,883     -         14,900,236     30%      17,977,077     21%
Electricity                 17,360,662     -         20,255,321     17%      26,444,740     31%
Telecommunications          16,449,119     -         41,024,525    149%      35,476,951    -14%
Transport                    4,048,360     -          5,665,616     40%       7,939,768     40%
Hydrocarbons                23,097,544     -         22,417,078     -3%      22,074,068      -2%0
Water                                      -          6,984,040               9,411,703     35%
TOTAL                       72,448,568     -        111,246,816    54%      119,324,307      7%
Note: These are planned not executed budgets.



36
TABLE 7: SIRESE EMPLOYEES 1997-1999
1997                    1998                     1999
Superintendency
Planned      Actual     Planned       Actual     Planned      Actual
General                      -           17          28           23          32
Electricity                  -           27          38           29          52
Telecommunications            -          32           55          52           72
Transport                    -           22           19          14          18          N/A
Hydrocarbons                             28           58          51          58
Water           _                         6           14          18          22
TOTAL                                    132         212         187          254
TABLE 8: SIRESE PERSONNEL COSTS 1997-1999
(As percentage of planned budget)
Superintendency            1997        1998         1999
General                    36%         33%          35%
Electricity                35%         33%          34%
Telecommunications         36%         23%          37%
Transport                  69%         63%          48%
Hydrocarbons               36%         41%          47%
Water                                  39%          44%
TOTAL                      38%         33%          39%
Note: These are planned personnel costs as a percentage of planned budgets.
TABLE 9: SIRESE APPEALS CASES 1997-1998
Superintendency               No. of Appeals        Average No. of Days     % w/in Statutory Period
1997        1998        1997         1998        1997         1998
Electricity                  9           13           34          75         44%          69%
Telecommunications           26          22          32           28          50%         77%
Transport                    2            3           11          32         100%         67%
Hydrocarbons                 3            7           22          29         100%         86%
Water                        -            8           -           17           -          100%
TOTAL / AVERAGE              40          53           25          36         74%          80%
Note: The statutory requirement is for first-instance appeals to be resolved within 30 working days.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30220
68°                    660                     64°                     62°                    600                         100-
10  B R A Z I L                                                                                      BOLIVIA
.2Wb    ,j                 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
-vJi Ar nilx                                             hMAIN ROADS
PA~>>    ;ty   ONcicebe  7>y a,ta)                                        -      S  '   MAIN RAILROADS
~co   bila i                         /   ¢   8, DNATIONAL CAPITAL
Parvenir  C          S                    -                                       ®      DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                    12°
12°      \            .B'Inca Flor                                                               0     SELECTED TOWNS
\.   ,4o~'                                               P.        %             -.         DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Pt. Heath        /                                                          --     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i.J  4<2-t       %gS        L Rogaguado                S a J   in a   ',,,,
14°  o:> S o9  -            \Sti goua                 t0                                                          14°
14.        IXI flSB
Apolo                                            Treabqe       dad 0<          t    
TO
Motorong                                 t_= *$                                                                                        , Pta VillC\an16'-
T    Corac aePataca                   Vi a   ac                                     Bg
16b'                                                                                                           n                         r os  ia
v \X(:o~~~~~~inoa                                              0)W\ l g ,.
ir <~       UyYni                                              a  r  i
M2t2° ani                                      p  V'l I_0 P   41                 t,                         a (  To     _   *an  Rjafe    a
>)       To Salta      E~~5~4.~mborcacion        <,uIu    BOL1,;ildrd                              Coisbs
Co  H 0                                                                               Ase R  A    N   T  I   N Aids[Slic 
o              atomaoThis map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.     P|'9
/ Th boudaris, clorsdenoinatons nd ayothr inormaionshown   240                              I LEt '   \   G&1
2404° on                                                                                                                   this map do no  imply, on ethe  partof The World Bank Group, any c 7 ----pznte
0° 50  100  150  200                                            25                                                0 -udgmentonthelegalstatusofanytembry,oranyendorsementor p edetTScn9UCr   St
acceptane of suc boundariea.
680                   66°                     64°                62/  ARGENTiNA   y
MAY 1999



