Docoumt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
Repet No. P-6345-BO
NEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
RNTENATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JUNE 14, 1994
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No: P-    6345 BO
Type: MOP
This document has a etricted ditibution and may be used by recpiens only in the performane of
thdir ofridal duties. Its contents may not otewise be dilosed withost Word Bank autborization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (.s)
Exchange Rate Effective June i994
US$1.00 Bs 4.61
Bs 1.00 = US$0.22
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA FISCAL YEAR
January I to Decenmber 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AASANA - Administracion Autonoma de Servicios Auxiliares a la Navegacion Aerea (Airports
Administration Company)
CIF       -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
CONARE - Comision Nacional Reguladora (National Regulatory Commission)
EMV       -  Empresa Metalurgica Vinto (Vinto Smelting Company)
ENDE      -  Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Electricity Company)
ENFE      -  Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarrilles (National Railway Company)
ENTEL   -  Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecom Company)
ESAF      -  Enhanced Structural Adjustnent Facility
FSAC      -  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -  International Development Association
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
LAB       -  Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (National Bolivian Airline)
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
MIF       -  Multilateral Investment Fund
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
SDR       -  Special Drawing Rights
TAB       -  Transportes Aereos Bolivianos
TAM       -  Transportes Aereos Militares
YPFB      -  Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (Bolivian Petroleum Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PIROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:    Mimistry of Capitalization
Amount:        SDR 10.5 million (US$14.7 million equivalent)
Terms and      Standard IDA terms with an amortization period of 40 years, and a grace period
Conditions:    of 10 years
LoSA        Foreign        Taw
(US$ million equivalent)
Flnandng       Government                               3.23         2.37          5.60
plan           IDA                                      0.50         14.20        14.70
Other assistance
- Government of France                  0.00         0.70          0.70
- Multilateral Investment Fund
(Technical Cooperation Facility-lDB)  O1&2
Total 
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Not applicable
Map:           IBRD 20516
Tis document has a resticted distruion and may be used bs redpc  m  only In e  _i  thpr
olicial dudes Its contensy not otrise be disclosd with ;tt W mid Bank n m



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IIDA TO THE EXECJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOMIVIA
FOR A REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSIANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Bolivia for SDR 10.5 million, the equivaent of US$14.7
million, on standard IDA terms with a maurity of 40 years to help finance a project for the
establisbment of an appropriate legal and regulatory environment and the divestiture of key
public enterprises. Cofiacing is being provided by the Multilateral Investment Fund (MI of
the Technical Cooperation Facility of the Iter-American Development Bank) and by the
Government of France.
Coumtry Backgrunmd
2.    Despite the achievements attained since the Bolivian Government first adopted an
adjustment progr in 1985, two main factors explain the disappointing performance of the
economy in ttracting private investment. First, public enterprises dominate key sectors of the
economy that present strong growth potential-hydrocarbons, mining, telecommunications,
electricity and transport. Second, Bolivia lacks an institutional framework to ensure private
agents clarity, predictability and enforceability of the legal and regulatory principles governing
their activities.
3.    The new Government assumed office in August 1993 with the pledge to continue to
reduce and rationalize the role of the state and to move the social agenda forward. The
cnterpiece of the Government's Plan de Todos is a bold program of privatization of six major
public enterprises through a process called capitalization. The plan includes the capitalizadon
of YPFB (hydrocarbons); EN2L Oong distance telecommunications; ENDE (electricity
generation ars transmission); ENFE (railways); LAB (airline) and EMV (smelter). The
Capitalization Law, passed by Congress in March 1994, states that the Government will: (i)
transfer up to 50% of the ownership of the new private enterprises derived from the selected
public enterprises to strategic investors; CiH) require private investors not to buy existing assets,
but rather to invest in the company itself, increasing the capital of the company by the purchase
price and providing it with liquidity for new investments for expansion; and (iii) transfer the
shares corresponding to the State's present share ownership to all adult Bolivians. These shares
will not be given directly to Bolivians, but will be transferred to individual deferred distribution
accouns to be managed by responsible fiduciary institutions. The law also specifies that
investors andlor managers of the capitalized companies will sign a management contract with
the corporation; after the expiration of this contract the strategic investor may purchase
additional shares and thereby own more than 50% of the shares of the company. Ihis law also
states that regulatory responsibility for the communications, power, hydrocarbons and transport
sector will be vested at the national rather than the municipal level.
4.    Prior to the capitalization of these enterprises, the Government intends to enact sector-
specific laws and promulgate regulations to promote investment and a competitive, efficient
environment in the sectors that have been dominated by these companies. Draft laws for the
telecommunications, hydrocarbons, electricity and mining sectors are being prepared for



-2 -
submission to the next session of Congress beginning in August 1994. The Ministry of
Capitalization was created in March 1994 to oversee the entire process of sectoral and
regulatory reform as well as the actual capitalization of enterprises.
5.    The draft National Regulatory Commission Law provides for the establishment of a
regulatory agency (CONARE) for the comnunications, electricity, hydrocarbons and transport
sectors. Although sectoral laws will elaborate CONARE7s specific powers in relation to each
sector, this draft law includes rules on certain cross-sectoral issues, including transparency
requirements, sanctions and anti-trust rules. Within CONARE, day-to-day regulatory activity
and decision-making would be the responsibility of sector-specific Superintendents and their
staff. To ensure that CONARE is adequately staffed and equipped, its funding would be
derived from fees imposed on the regulated sectors. The Superintendents wo,ld be overseen by
a three-person Commission, which will also consider appeals from Superintendents' decisions.
The Government intends to establish this regulatory agency with functioning sectoral
departmems by early 1995.
Project Objectives
6.    The project's objectives are to assist the Government in the planning, design and
execution of its capitalization program and to ensure that the Government has at its disposal the
varied and complex advice needed for such a program. At the same time, the project aims to
design and establish the overall regulatory framework for the future development of key sectors
and to ensure that the new regulatory institution begins operations in a satisfactory manner.
Project Description
7.    The proposed project will provide support to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry
of Capitalization to conduct the sector reform and capitalization process for six sectors
(hydrocarbons, electricity, telecommunications, railways, aviation, smelter/mining); (ii) help
establisJ. the regulatory agency, CONARE; (iii) develop specific reform strategies, legislation
and regulations for the reorganization of the telecommnunications sector and the subsequent
capitalization of EN7EL; and Civ) develop a similar program for the aviation sector, which deals
not only with the capitalization of LAB, but also the divestiture of the airports authority
AASANA, and the two smaller state-owned airlines TAB and TAM. A full description of the
proposed project, including the details, the state of preparation and a breakdown of the
estimated cost of each of the four components, is presented in the Technical Annex to this
Memorandum.
8.    The project will complement other IDA-supported technical assistance operations under
preparation to provide similar assistance to the hydrocarbons, electricity and financial sectors,
and for judicial reform. At the same time, assistance to the railways sector and the mining
sector wi1l be provided through ongoing operations-the Export Corridors Project and the
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project, respectively. These projects would support the
achievement of policy measures being considered under the forthcoming Capitalization Program
Adjustment Credit. The following paragraphs s'.mmarize the main features of each component.
9.    Strengthening the Caacfty of the Ministry of CapitaliWion: The Ministry of
Capitalization was established to coordinate and direct the capitalization process. Sector-
specific working groups have been formed to perform the technical work needed for the



-3-
reform. At the same time, a Procurement Unit has been established within the Ministry of
Capitalization to provide oversight and advisory services for the procurement of consultants and
equipment to be financed under the various technical assistance operations now being prepared.
Detailed procedures for managing the procurement process will be developed by the
procurement staff, with the assistance of an internationally-recruited procurement specialist
thoroughly familiar with World Bank procurement procedures.
10.   A detailed program of technical assistance has been developed to support these
activities. To enhance the capacity of the Ministry to carry out this work, the program would
provide for: (i) legal and privatization advisors; (ii) specialized procurement advisors and
equipment needed to establish the new Procurement Unit; and (iii) assistance and materials for
a public information campaign to design and explain the capitalization progiv m and the
distribution scheme. The total estimated cost of the program to strength.... u'.: N tistry of
Capitalization as outlined above is US$7.56 million equivalent -f whicl. L KS<14 § I 6 million is
being proposed for financing under the IDA Credit. The bal.. -.. would bt 'irianced through
budgetary resources and from the MIF grant.
11.   Regadoary Reform: The Government proposes to establish a National Regulatory
Commission, CONARE, to regulate aspects of the electricity, hydrocarbons, communications
and transport industries. Although CONARE's detailed jurisdiction in each sector will be
determined by sectoral laws, it is expected to have three core functions: (i) assistance in
administering and enforcing concession arrangements; (ii) administration of price regulation
arangements; and (iii) enforcement of anti-trust norms.
12.   Elements of the proposed program to assist regulatory reform include: (i) a long-term
regulatory expert advisor; (ii) consultant studies on matters such as the organization and stafling
of the agency, the development of key policies and procedures and the management of the
agency's financial, personnel and other resources; (iii) training programs for CONARE staff on
cross-sectoral regulatory matters; and (iv) twinning arrangements and other contacts with
regulatory institutions in other countries. The total estimated project cost for this component is
US$1.3 million equivalent of which US$1.1 million is being proposed for financing under the
IDA credit. The balance wi1l be funded by the Government.
13.   Tedeconununications: Elements of the proposed program to assist the reform and
subsequent capitalization of the telecommunications sector include: (i) advisors to assist the
sectoral reform process and the capitalization of ENTEL; (ii) training for the regulatory agency
personnel; and (iii) specialized equipment for the regulatory agency including frequency
monitoring equipment and computer hardware and software. The total estimated project cost
for this component is US$9.8 million equivalent of which US$6.3 million is being proposed for
financing under the IDA credit while the remainder will be financed by the Government. Only
the retainer fee of the investment bank has been included as part of the IDA financing package;
it has been assumed that the success fee would be financed from the proceeds of the
capitalization.
14.   The Aviaion Sector: Te proposed program to assist the aviation sector includes: C')
sectoral reform and the development of an appropriate regulatory framework; (ii) the
capitalization of LO; (iii) the privatization of some operations of the airports authority,
AASANA; and (iv) the privatization or liquidation of TAM and TAB. The total estimated cost of
this component is US$3.44 million equivalent of which US$1.92 million would be financed by



-4 -
the IDA credit. The Government of France intends provide FF S millIon (about US$700,000)
in financing to examine the rationalization of the Bolivian airports system. Remaining costs
would be covered by the Governmem.
Project Costs
15.   The total cost of the proposed technical assistance program is estimated at US$23.3
million equivalent as of May 1994, including the refinancing of US$1 million of a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) which was provided for this operation.' The proposed financing
plan for the Project includes: (i) US$14.7 million (including the US$1 million Projec
Preparation Facility reimbursement) which would be financed under the proposed IDA credit;
(ii) US$3.0 million of cofinancing through an Inter-American Development Bank (AIF) grant
for US$2,336,000 and a French Government grant for French Francs 5,000,000; and (iii) the
balance of US$5.6 mDilion which will be financed by Govermment through budgetary allocations
and (for the success fees related to the divestment of EN7EL and LAB) from the proceeds of the
transactions themselves. Schedule A to this Memorandum is a detailed summary of the total
project cost broken down by major components. Schedule A also shows the proposed financing
plan and a schedule of estimated disbursements.
Project Implementation
16.   Responsibility for implementing the project lies directly with the Ministry of
Capitalization, through its Secretariat of Capitalization. This Ministry's staff would receive
substantial support through the technical assistance provided under this project and the other
sectoral technical assistance operations which are planned. This support is already underway,
financed in part by the PPF for this operation. Working groups have been established in each
of the sectors to elaborate sector restructuring and enterprise capitalization plans as well as to
implement fnancial sector reforms and design the share distribution scheme. The working
groups also have tf': main technical responsibility for defining tasks, preparing terms of
reference, and overseeing the work of consultants. All key terms of reference have been
discussed with IDA and may be found in project files. The Government has assigned the
President of each of the enterprises with spec;fic day-to-day responsibility for monitoring and
maintaining the pace of capitalization. The sectoral Secretaries are responsible for leading the
working groups on sectoral reform issues. Details of the key monitorable project activities,
together with target dates, are contained in Schedule 1.
17.   The Procurement Unit has been established to deal with the large number of consulting
contracts to be financed through the project. This group is already receiving training and other
support from Bank procurement specialists. This Ministry is also responsible for contracting
the initial support needed to establish CONARE. These arrangements, which have been
consolidated and strengthened since the appointment of the new Minister of Capitalization in
April 1994, are already producing results and should ensure rapid and efficient implementation
I/     A Project Preparation Facily of USS1.5 million was approved in August 1993. US$1 million of this
faciLity was specifically ear-maked for technical ass_stn  for regulatory reform and capitazation; the
other US$0.5 million for judicial reform. It was subsequently decided to separate the judicial refonn
activ; ies as a discrete projet and to allocate the PPF reimbursment responsibilities between the two
operatons. The original PPP agreement was amended to refect this change.



. -
of this project and the capitalization and regulatory reform which it supports. The Ministry
would provide office space and administrative support to the technical advisors.
18.   The Technicat Annex describes the procurer-ent and disbursement arrangements for the
proposed credit. As summarized in Schedule B, procurement would be according to normal
Bank review procedures and disbursements would be made against 100% of the net-of-tax cost
of loca and foreign consultants, 100% of training expenses, 100% of the CIF cost of imported
goods and of the ex-factory cost of local goods and 85% of the cost of locally-procured goods.
Retroactive financing for consulting activities and related equipment procured under Bank
guidelines after May 1, 1994, is proposed, up to a limit of US$1.47 million, equivalent to !0%
of the proposed amount of the credit. The Project is expected to be completed by end-1997.
Ihe closing date is June 30. 1998.
Project Sunabilty
19.   Bolivia's capitalization program has the specific objective of: (i) restructuring the
energy, telecommunications, mining and transport sectors; (ii) privatizing six major state-owned
enterprises within these sectors; and (iii) setting up an agency to regulate the provision of
public services within these sectors. The project is designed to support the Ministry of
Capitalization to accomplish all three of these objectives. But at project completion, the
Ministry of Capitalization will be disbanded.
20.   The long-term success of this divestiture process depends greatly upon the establishment
of an appropriate regulatory framework in these sectors. The sectoral laws and regulai.ons will
be administered by the regulatory agency, CONARE, which will be self-financed through user
charges as stated in the draft CON4RE law and specified in the draft sectoral reform laws.
This independent funding source should help to attract and retain highly-qualified staff.
CONARs multisectoral jurisdiction was designed to resist industry capture and increase the
efficient use of scarce skilled human resources. To protect the independence of the agency, the
Commissioners and Superintendents will have substantial security of tenure during five year
staggered terms. In additicn, through the exercise of its independent jurisdiction, CONARE
should build a constituency of support among consumers and industry and Government
representatives.
21.   The success of the divestiture program also will depend upon the professionalism and
skill of those designing and implementing the program. This project is designed to help bring
such expertise to the process. The six enterprises will be owned initially by the Bolivian people
(whose shares will be in deferred distribution accounts managed by pension funds), and by
strategic investors who will manage the companies through a management contact. These
shares' value will be determined by trades on international and domestic markets.
Lessons Leamed from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
22.   The design of the divestiture and regulatory reform program to be supported by this
technical assistance credit reflects several lessons learned in Bolivia and elsewhere. Key
lessons include the need for: (i) full commitment to the process at the highest Government
levels; (ii) the introduction of policy and regulatory reforms to promote competition and protect
consumer welfare prior to the privatization transaction; (iii) a limit on the scope and size of the
technical assistance credit to ensure adequate supervision; (iv) the establishment of a



-6-
coordinaton mechanism wiffiin Government (the Ministry of Capitalization) to ensure
consistency and coherence; and (v) an efficient Government procurement mechanism to ensure
that the work gets done in a timely manner while conforming to IDA procedures.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
23.   The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy discussed
by the Board on February 8, 1994 as well as the Government's policy agenda, whica aime to
reduce the role of the State in productive and infrastructure sectors while improving the
delivery of socirl services through efficient social sector expenditures. This project, together
with companion technical assistance operations would provide direct assistance to the
Government's adjustment program to help establish an appropriate legal and regulatory
environment and to divest key public enterprises. More global support for the Govermnent's
program is proposed under a Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit now being appraised.
This project was prepared according to the timetable shown in Schedule C. Schedule D of this
Memorandum provides a Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits in Bolivia as of March 31,
1994.
Agreed Actions
24.   During negotiations, agreement w2s obtained on tha:
-     specific consulting tasks and equipment needs and financing plan of the Project (as
described in the Technical Annex);
*     details of the MIF and French Government cofinancing packages. It was agreed that
IDA financing would be restricted to those items for the strengthening of the Ministry
of Capitalization and telecommunications sector reform that were not cofinanced by the
MIF. In addition, it was agreed that if the cofinancing agreements with the Inter-
American Development Bank (MW) and the French Government are not signed by the
Government by March 31, 1995, the Association would be authorized to suspend
disbursements unless suitable alternative sources of financing could be found.
*     project implementation timetable shown in Schedule 1.
*     principles of the Supreme Decree on procurement that transfers procurement authority
to the Government. from procurernent agencies. The enactment of this decree is a
condition of project effectiven"s.
*     principles of the CONARE law. The passage by Congress of the CONARE law is a
condition of disbursements for CONARE staff training and twinning arrangements. This
law is needed prior to the appointment of CONARE staff.
*     principles for restructuring the telecommunications sector. The passage by Congress of
the Telecommunications Law is a condition of disbursements for training the staff and
purchasing of equipment for the Superintendency of Telecommunications within
CONARE. This law is required to define the specific regulatory responsibilities of this
Superintendency.



-7 -
*     principles for restructuring the aviation sector.
*     reporting requirements of the project. In addition to meeting all financial reporting
requirements, a full progress report will be prepared and submitted to IDA every six
months. This report will detail all project and related activities, report on progress in
relation to agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may have been
encountered and which could adversely affect the overall impact of the project.
Environmental Aspects
25.   Environmental category C. The TA credit has no direct environmental impact.
However, an environmental audit will be performed on all appropriate public enterprises prior
to the date of their capitalization and the Government intends to assume responsibility for all
such environmental liabilities. New owners will be subject to all environmental laws and
standards.
Program Objective Categories
26.   This project, by supporting policy reforms to promote investment, privatization and
regulatory reforms as well as the institutional development of CONARE, will contribute to
private sector development and improved public sector management.
Project Benefits
27.   The economic benefits of the technical assistance provided through this credit are
expected to be substantial. Comprehensive reform and the development of an appropriate
regulatory framework for the hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity and mining sectors
will encourage private investment and technology transfer. The capitalization program in
general should have an important impact on GDP growth. Ihese reforms are also expected to
free up to 25-35% of the Government's annual investment budget to invest in human capital
and basic infrastructure. The capitalization of the telecommunications and aviation sectors,
specifically, is expected to attract several hundred millions of US dollars of new investment
capital.
Risks
28.   The main risks faced by the project are delays in implementation due to a lack of
adequate skilled staff within the working groups and the procurement agency. Addressing this
risk is the specific objective of the proposed project. Additional efforts (such as in-Bank
training of the staff of the procurement unit) are already underway. Another important risk is
the political difficulty associated with securing Congressional passage of sectoral reform
legislation and implementing the divestiture of key public enterprises. The public information
campaign is included within the project as a mechanism to explain the reform program and
distribution scheme to Bolivians and solicit their feedback. A final risk is the difficulty of
establishing an independent, technically-proficient regulatory capacity within Bolivia. This
project will only assist in the beginning stages of the process, but the passage of sector
legislation and regulations as well as including independent sources of financing from the
sectors for the regulatory agency should help to lessen these longer-term risks.



-8-
RECOMMNATION
29.          1 am satisfied that the ptoposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
I ewis T. Preston
President
Attacbments
Washington D.C.
June 14, 1994



BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
SCHIEDULE A - ESIIMATED PROJECT COS1S AND FINANCING PLAN AND
DISBURSEMET SCHlEDULE
(US$ equivalent)
Table I - Estimated Total Project Cost
Item                                     Local Cost    Foreign Cost'       Total
Reflwndrg of PPF                                          1,000,000       1,000,000
A. Mnrsuy of Capitalization               2,210,000       5,350,000       7,560,W00
B. Tedinical Assistance to CONARE          200,000        1,300,000       1,500,000
C. Teleommications Seaor                 1,500,000       8,300,000       9,800,000
D. Avation Sector                          320,000        3,120,000       3,440,000
Total                             4,230,000       19,070,000     23,300,000
Table 2 - Projeaed Financing Plan
Source of Finance                       Local Cost     Foreign Costs       Total
Government of Bolivia                     3,230,000       2,370,000       5,600,000
IDA                                        500,000       14,200,000      14,700,000
Otwer assistance
- Gover,vnent of France                         0          700,000         700,000
- Multilateral Invesment Fund              500,000       1,800,000       2,300,000
Total                             4,230,000       19,070,000     23,300,000



Schedulk B
Page  of?2
BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE B - SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ equivalent)
Table I - Procurement Arrangements
Procurenent              JDA Financed Procurement a/             Non-lDA
Category                                                         Financed         Total
ICB          LCB           Other    procurement
Consultans             -              -         13,500,000    4,300,000       17,800,000
serWie, training                               (10,200,000)                  (10,200,000)
and reloed
expenses
Goods/Equipment    3,500,000        600,000       400,000      1,000,000       5,500,000
(3,500,000)     (600,000)     (400,000)          -         (4,500,000)
Total       3,500,000       600,000     13,900,000     5,300,000       23,300,000
(3,500,000)     (600,000)  (10,600,000)                   (14,700,000)
otes:  Figures in parentheses indicate the amounts inan   by IA
t/ International Competitive Bidding, using standard Bank documents, will be used for the
telecommunications regulatory equipment and for goods valued at greater than US$150,000 equivalent.
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) will be used for goods and production of advertising and collateral
materials valued at more than US$25,000 and less than US$150,000 (not exceeding US$600,000 in the
agregate), using standard bidding documents approved by IEA. "Other' IDA procurement includes
procurement of consultants according to Bank guidelines, and for goods valued at less than US$25,000,
and for printing and distrbution of advertising and collateral materials, through shopping procedures
acceptable to the IDA (not exceeding US$400,000 in the aggregate). Prior review will be mandatory for
al ICB and LCH procurement as well as for the first contract procured through shopping. Services
procured by the borrower but not financed by IDA are the "success fees" of the investment bankers
handling the transactions for EN7EL and L4B.
bl Non-IDA financed procurement is for (i) procurement of consultant services according to cofuiancier's
procedures; and (ii) locally-financed procurement under local procedures of consultants, equipment and
equipment-related services.
Table 2 - Disbursements
Category                       Amount       Percentage
Consulant services           7,100,000  100% net of taxes
Goods                        3,600,000  100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85% for other
items procured locally
Public infornation           1,000,000  100%
campaign
Training and related          600,000  100%
expenses
Refunding PPF                1,000,000  Amounts due
Unallocated                  1,400,000
Total               14,700,000



Schedsle B
Page 2 of 2
Table 3 - Projected Disbursement Schedulefor IDA Credit
FY95       FY96        FY97       FY98
Annual                   5,000,000   4,000,000   4,000,000   1,700,000 |
Cumulative               5,000,000   9,000,000  13,000,000  14,700,000



BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNCAL ASSIVANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE C - TIMEIABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)    Time taken to prepare:     Five months
(b)    Prepared by:               Government of Bolivia with IDA staff
(c)    First IDA mission:         December 1993
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:  April 1994
(e)    Negotiations:              May 1994
(f)    Planned Effectiveness:     August 1994
(g)    List of relevant PCRs and Project Performance Audit Reports (PRARs):
PPAR  *Emergency Social Fund Program (Ln. 1587-1O); May 29, 1990
PCR   *National Mineral Exploration Fund Project (Cr. 940-DO); Sept. 10, 1990
PCR   *Urban Development Project (Ln. 1489-BO); July 8, 1992
PCR   eVuelta Grande Gas Recycling Project (Cr. 1719-BO); August 12, 1993



BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE D - STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
(US$ millions)
Table I - Statement of Barnk Loans and MlA Credits as at March 31, 1994
Amount (less
cancellation)
LO/CR     Fiscal                                                           Undis-
Nwnber    Year      orrower  Purpose                    Bank       IDA     bursed
16 loans, 26 credits closed                           274.78     395.08
18090     1987    Bolivia    Public Fimancial Mgt                 11.50      0.07
18180     1987    Bolivia    Power Sector Rehab                    6.80      0.55
18420     1988    Bolivia    La Paz Munic. Devt                   15.00      2.03
19770     1989    Bolivia    Econ Mgt Strergth                     9.70      0.25
20120     1989    Bolivia    Export Corridors                     37.00     11.19
20130     1989    Bolivia    Mining Sector                        35.00     27.27
20920     1990    Bolivia   Integrated Health Dev                 20.00     12.07
21190     1990    Bolivia    Eastern Lowlands                     35.00     18.78
21270      1990    Bolivia    Social Invest Fund                  20.00      2.37
21340     1990    Bolivia    Private Enterprise Dev               16.10     13.89
21870     1991    Bolivia    Water Supply/Sewerage                35.00     24.71
22160     1991    Bolivia    Technology Dev                       21.00     13.63
22790     1991    Bolivia    Public Financial Mgt                 11.30      7.99
22980     1992    Bolivia    Struct Adjust Cred                   40.00      8.81
23220      1992    Bolivia    Agr Exp Dev Prog                    22.50     20.89
23950      1992    Bolivia    Road Maintenance                    80.00     80.47
24430     1993    Bolivia    Environ TA Project                    4.80      3.28
25310      1993    Bolivia   Integrated Child Dev                 50.70     50.56
22982 (S)  1993    Bolivia    Struct Adjust Cred                  11.12      0.13
25320     1993    Bolivia    Social Invest. Fund II               40.00     39.97
22983 (S)  1994    Bolivia    Structual Adjust. Cr.                9.37      9.52
25650      1994    Bolivia    Municipal Development               42.00     42.51
Total of open operations                   573.89    390.87
TOTAL                          274.78     968.97
Of which repaid              195.4       16.62
Net held by Bank/IDA          79.74    952.35
Amount sold                      0.05
Of which repaid               0.05
Total Undisbursed
Tabk 2 - Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1994
Loan     Equity      Total
Total Gross Commitments                                 88.24      11.31     99.55
Less: cancellations, terminations, exchange adjustments,  19.94     0.89     20.83
repayments, write-offs and sales
Total Commissions now held by IFC                       68.29      10.42     78.72
Total Undisbursed IFC                                    2.39       3.40      5.80



BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSIWANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX - THE PROJECT
Section A: Detailed Project Description
Strengthening the Ministry of Capitafization
Background
1.    To speed the process of sector reform and capitalization, and achieve the most
advantageous results, the Bolivian Government is making extensive use of both
internationally-recruited and domestic consultants and advisors in the preparation and
implementation of its capitalization program. Much of this assistance is sector-specific, and
has been funded through a variety of programs. Direct assistance to the Secretariat (now
Ministry) of Capitalization has been financed through a variety of means including counterpart
funds from the ongoing SAC, a Japanese grant facility which was obtained for the preparation
of the Capitalization Project Adjustment Credit and a Project Preparation Facility for this
present project. As the pace of work increases, and these sources of funds become depleted,
additional funding must be put in place to provide essential assistance to the Ministry of
Capitalization until the program is completed.
Legal and Privatization Assistance
2.    The Ministry of Capitalization requires the services of specialized experts to help
implement the reform program. Key among these are:
e    Afidl-tlme commercial legal advisor who can review commercial aspects of laws
under preparation but who could also provide input to the Ministry on such matters as
legal procedures, consultant contracts, pre-qualification of potential investors, bidding
conditions, legal audits, modifications to company by-laws, etc.
*   Short-term legal specialists who could provide specialized inputs both in drafting
legislation and in commercial transactions undertake or overseen by the Ministry.
*   An internationally-recruited, full-time technical advisor, with solid, hands-on
privatization experience. This advisor would act as a counterpart to the Secretary of
Capitalization and would be available to advise on all aspects of the process in all
sectors.
*   Short-term technical advisors, both internationally and locally recruited, for
specialized assistance as required.
Procurement Unit
3.    The Government will shortly issue a Supreme Decree entitling the Ministry of
Capitalization to directly engage in capitalization-related procurement of consultants and
associated equipment, without having to use the services of the official procurement agents



TwkAnnex - The Projd
pop 2 8118
through which all Bolivian public procurement over Bs 200,000 is now channelled. To
perform this function, the Ministry has established a Procurement Unit, staffed by fully-
qualified local staff. It will be supported by foreign advisors as required, and equipped with
the necessary office-technology and related equipment in order to effectively be able to carry
out its work. Two staff members have received a week of familiarization training in
Washington, and also attended World Bank procurement and disbursement seminars in La
Paz. Key inputs to the Unit, which. would be financed under the proposed IDA Credit,
inclulie:
* A long-term internationally-recruited procurement advisor, who would initially be
essentially full-time in Bolivia for a period of up to six months, and who would then
be available to assist the Bolivian staff periodically and as required to implement
procurement. The Advisor would be fluent in both Spanish and English, and would
be fully-conversant with World Bank procurement procedures.
*   Special short-term internationally-recruited procurement consultants and advisors for
key procurement areas. In some sectors, specialized knowledge will be required to
prepare terms of reference and review proposals. Also, special advisors will provide
valuable assistance when important, large contracts are negotiated.
* An experienced accounting advisor to set up and train staff in the use of the complex
accounting and reporting systems which will be required to maintain accurate records
of the use of IDA resources from four different technical assistance credits (together
with PPFs in some cases), going to about a dozen beneficiaries, and with
approximately 60 consultant contracts as well as small equipment purchases. The
accounting advisor would be available periodically and as required.
*   Locally-hired procurement and accounting specialists, including both a procurement
manager and an accounting manager, together with two additional procurement
officers and two additional accountants.
*   Offlce technology equipment and systems, including computers net-worked and with a
linkage to the Bank's All-in-One svstem, to facilitate Bank procurement and
disbursement communications, together with other office equipment including fax
machines, photocopiers, etc.
Public Information Campaign for Capitalization
4.    Background: Successful capitalization in Bolivia will hinge in part upon effectively
communicating both the costs of maintaining the status quo, and the benefits of reform. An
effective communications strategy must incorporate this broad message as well as educate
various target audiences about specific aspects of the program, allay unwarranted fears, and
build support among stake-holders.
5.           To achieve these objectives, the Government will retain a Public Relations
Advisor to assist in identifying public perceptions of the capitalization program, and
developing a communications strategy to effectively market the proposed program both
domestically and abroad. This work will also include explaining the share distribution scheme



TechnkcalAnnex Xre Projed
Poge 3 of is
to all Bolivians and particularly to those retirees who are immediately eligible to receive
benefits.
6.    Proposed Scope of Work: Ile Advisor wiii work directly for the Secretary of
Capitalization under the auspices of the Minister of Capitalization. The assignment will be
for a period of approximately two years. The proposed assistance consists of four basic
components: (i) design, development and implementation of a communications strategy;
(ii) design, production and dissemination of advertising and collateral materials; (iii)
supporting research and development; and (iv) preparation for special events.
7.    Conmucnations Strategy: The Advisor will be required to develop and implement a
comprehensive communications strategy for the capitalization program, consisting of sectoral,
national and international campaigns:
*   The secoral campaign, targeted especially at legislators and enterprise managers and
employees, will aim at building congressional support for sector-specific legislation
for the capitalization program.
*   The natonal campaign should serve to educate the public at large about the benefits
of the program and aim at building brcad-based support among all stake-holders
including constituents, tax-payers, enterprise managers and employees, trade unions
and potential investors.
*   The international campaign will aim at marketing the Bolivian capitalization program
to potential foreign investors. Here the Advisor will work closely with financial
advisors and/or investment banks dealing with the individual enterprises.
8.    Major anticipated outputs resulting from implementation of the communications
strategy will include television and radio advertising, print advertising (domestic and
international), qualitative research packages (focus group results), quantitative public opinion
surveys, direct mail to key stake-holders and constituencies, seminars and educational events.
9.    Advelsing and Colateral Materials: The Advisor will be directly responsible for
budgeting, overseeing and coordinating the design, production and dissemination of
advertising to support the communications strategy through various media, including
television, radio and print. The Advisor will also be responsible for the design, production
and dissemination of collateral materials such as posters, brochures and educational materials.
10.   Research and Development: The Advisor will be responsible for developing and
implementing a research and development program in order to accurately identify the
knowledge and perceptions of the general public and major stakeholders regarding the
capitalization program. This data will be analyzed to assess the effectiveness of the various
programs implemented under the communications strategy, and will be used to tailor the
communications effort to address and, where necessary, alter these perceptions. This work
will include the collection of qualitative data through establishment of focus groups, and
collection of quantitative data through public opinion surveys and other means.



Techncak Annex - The Project
Page 4 of 18
11.   Spedal Events: The Advisor will also be respons,ble for organizing special events in
order to educate major stakeholders about the capitalization program. Such events might
include seminars for potential investors, seminars for members of Congress and other key
political figures, seminars and training programs fbr key public officials, and seminars for
employees of enterprises which are going to be capitalized.
Cost Estimate
12.   The total estimated cost of the program to strengthen the Ministry of Capitalization as
outlined above is US$7.56 million equivalent, of which US$4.18 million is being proposed for
financing under the IDA Credit. The balance would be financed through budgetary resources
and from the MIF grant. Details of the estimate for individual components are contained in
the following table:
Table I - Estimated Cost of Strengthening the Ministry of Capitalization
(US$)
Item                              Total Cost     Financed by     Proposedfor
Others        IDA Credit
Legal and Privatization Assistance
- Legal Advisors                      340,000         140,000         200,000
- Privatization Advsors              2,000,000        500,000        1,500,000
Procurement Unit
- Procurement servces                 800,000         200,000         600,000
- Office technology equipment         500,000              -          500,000
- Accounting                          420,000         140,000         280,000
Public Information Campaign
- Communications strategy            1,300,000        900,000         400,000
- Advertising                        1,500,000       1,000,000        500,000
- Research and Development            400,000         300,000         100,000
- Special Events                      300,000         200,000         100,000
Total                         7,560,000       3,380,000       4,180,000
Technical Assistance to CONARE
13.   The Government proposes to establish a National Regulatory Commission, CONARE,
to regulate aspects of the electricity, hydrocarbons, communications and transport industries.
Although CONARE's detailed jurisdiction for each sector will be determined by sectoral laws,
it is expected to have three core fupctions: (i) assistance in administering and enforcing
concession arrangements; (ii) administration of price regulation arrangements; and
enforcement of anti-trust norms.



Technical Annex - The Project
Page S of 18
14.   The draft regulatory entity law that would establish CONARE provides that the agency
will comprise four sector-specific National Superintendents, overseen by a multi-sectoral
Commission. Key elements of the proposed organization are that:
*   The National Superintendents will have responsibility for, respectively, electric
energy, communications, hydrocarbons and transport. Their specific mandate within
each sector will be determined by sectoral laws. The Superintendents and their staff
will be responsible for day-to-day decision making and other regulatory activity in
their respective sectors, performing tasks such as price regulation and supervision of
compliance with concessions and sectoral laws. The Superintendents are named by
Supreme Decree for five-year staggered terms, and are protected from arbitrary
removal.
*   The three-person Commission will have responsibility for overseeing the work of the
National Superintendents and hearing appeals from Superintendents' decisions. The
multi-sectoral focus is intended to promote policy consistency across the sectors and to
increase the agency's resistance to improper influence from industry and government.
A central administration within CONARE should also permit economies in staffing and
other resources. Members of the Commission are named by Supreme Decree and,
like the Superintendents, have five-year staggered terms with protection from arbitrary
removal.
After a two year transitional period-when it will be funded from the budget-CONARE will
be funded through industry levies and user charges.
15.   The ultimate appellate body for decisions by the Commission is the Supreme Court.
The Commission's decisions would be subject to review by the President and Minister before
an appeal is available to the Supreme Court
Proposed Technical Assistance Program
16.   To realize its potential benefits to the Bolivian economy, the Capitalization Program
requires the confidence of both investors and consumers. The establishment of credible,
effective and efficient regulatory arrangements will play a key role in establishing and
maintaining that confidence as well as in promoting the efficient development of the key
infrastructure industries involved. Given Bolivia's extremely limited experience with
independent regulatory agencies of the kind represented by CONARE, and its lack of any
previous experience in matters such as anti-trust rules, considerable technical assistance will
be required, covering the four main elements presented below:
*   A full-time, La Paz-based technical advisor assigned to CONARE for a period of
about 20 months. During the early phase of the agency's establishment and operation
it is anticipated that considerable ongoing and sometimes intensive support and
guidance will be required by senior agency staff. An in-house technical advisor
would meet this need and would also play a key role in ensuring that the elements of
the technical assistance program were effectively targeted and managed. Experience
in regulatory agencies would be essential, as would good management skills and
communication skills in Spanish.



Technial Annex - The Project
Ptge 6 of 18
*   Consultant sntdies and advice to support the establishment of appropriate
organzational and administrative arrangements. Before recruitment below the level
of Superintendent can proceed, a detailed organizational structure and staffing plan
needs to be established, which would address, inter alia, the optimal allocation of
staff between sectoral Superintendencies and one or more central departments. The
agency wIll also require assistance in establishing appropriate )olicies and procedures
governing the management of financial, personnel and other agency resources.
Assistance of this kind could be coordinated by the La Paz-based technical advisor but
would require support through studies and specialist advice provided by consultants.
*   Training programs in La Paz on cross-sectoral regulatory issues. The regulation of
utility industries is a complex political, economic and technical task, in which agency
personnel are likely to have very limited prior exposure let alone well-developed
skills. The relevant Superintendent and his/her staff, and to a lesser extent the
Commissioners, will require training on sector-specific issues, including the key
economic, technical and other characteristics of each sector. Training of this kind is
an essential part of the total assistance package, but is considered separately in relation
to each sector under relevant sectoral operations. In addition to such sector-specific
training, Commissioners, Superintendents and relevant staff will require training on
cross-sectoral regulatory matters covering such subject matter as: (i) the role of
regulators vis-a-vis other actors-the theory and practice of managing appropriate
relationships with industry, executive and legislative branches of government, and
consumers, etc; (ii) price regulation theory and administration-possibly comprising
sub-units in financial analysis, determining the value of capital, procedures for
undertaking tariff reviews, etc; (iii) managing concessions-generic issues associated
with competitive bidding processes; managing compliance, etc; (iv) anti-trust law and
policy-covering key elements of market and competition analysis, public benefit
assessment; managing the enforcement process etc; (v) community relations-covering
the role of consumers in the regulatory process; the theory and practice of public
decision making; media relations etc; and (vi) administrative law for regulators-basic
concepts of administrative justice and the appeals process viewed from a regulator's
perspective. The provision of training would be coordinated by the La Paz-based
technical advisor. Actual training would be conducted in La Paz with leading local or
foreign experts.
*   Supportfor "twnning"programs with regulatory institutions in other countries.
"Twinning" arrangements between CONARE and more experienced regulatory
agencies provide a source of ongoing support which can be tapped as technical
assistance, training or staff-development opportunities. A number of US regulatory
institutions already engage in arrangements of this kind and might be persuaded to
'twin" with CONARE. It is possible that some of the more experienced Latin
American agencies might also provide useful "twinning' partners. In either case,
however, the twinning agency will lack its own financial resources for an activity of
this kind. Financial support under this program would be targeted to travel and other
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by both agencies. In addition to formal training
activities in La Paz, Commissioners, Superintendents an4 senior CONARE personnel
would benefit from informal visits with experienced regulatory agencies in the US,



TechnkalAnnex - The Pojed
Page 7 of 18
Europe and elsewhere in Latin America, augmented by informal contacts made
through targeted overseas conferences.
Cost Estimate
17.   The total estimated cost of the program outlined above is US$1.5 million, of which
US$1.3 million would be eligible for financing under the proposed IDA Credit. Details of the
estinates for individual components are contained in the following table:
Table 2 - Estimated C;ost of Technical Assistance to CONARE
(US$)
Item                              Total Cost      Financed by    Proposedfor
Others        IDA Credit
Technical Adisor                       400,000              0          400,000
Consldtant Studies                     400,000              0          400,000
Trahinng                               400,000         100,000         300,000
TAinning & Overseas Visits             300,000         100,000         200,000
Total                         1,500,000         200,000        1,300,000
Telecommunications Sector Reform
Background and Sector Strategy
18.   Bolivia has one of the worst telecommun.cations systems in Latin America (see box).
The Government has concluded that telecommunications service and penetration levels in
Bolivia will not significantly improve without wide-ranging reforms in the regulation of the
sector and the management of the long-distance and local companies. While ENL, the long
distance public enterprise that is part of the capitalization plan, requires no new capital and
little investment, the local service cooperatives require significant amounts of new capital and
investment resources. Thus, the Government plans to bundle the long distance and local
services together, and to attract private investment capital in the sector in order to provide
better and more services to the population. The Government has agreed that this can best be
achieved by stimulating fair and open competition for the pro-vision of telecommunications
services among a group of private agents, working within a framework of effective
government regulation.
19.   The Government has committed itself to establish a new legal and regulatory
framework for the telecommunications sector and to find a mechanism to recapitalize the
entire sector prior to negotiations for the forthcoming IDA Capitalization Program Adjustment
Credit. The strategy to capitalize the entire sector, which has been agreed to by IDA and the
Government, would involve first transforming EM7EL into a mixed corporation (EN7EL
), comprised of the Government's shares as well as those purchased by ENL workers.



Technial Annex - The ProJect
Page 8 of 18
All telephone cooperatives would then be
invited to join ENTEL SAM and thereby             Telecommunlcations in Bolvia
participate in the sector's capitalization. A     Bolivia's telephone density is among the lowest in
new corporation will then be formed by the        the world, quality of service is poor, and long
merger of ENIEL SAM and the                       distance tariffs rank among the highest.  The
cooperatives, called ENL EL SA. This              structure of Bolivia's telecommunications sector is
corporation will be capitalized by issuing        unusual in that, while the long-distance and
new shares to private investors, nhrough a        international networks are owned and operated by a
monopoly public enterprise, its local network is
public bidding process. The strategic             fragmented into 22 independent cooperatives. The
partner will receive management control           long distance company is inefficient and, in gcneral,
over the corporation through a management         the  cooperatives' performance and  financial
cotract, and up to 50% of ENTEL SA                prospects are bleak. The annual US$20L25 million
shares. At the same time, the                     transfer payment from the long distance company to
the Govemment are funds that should have been
Government's shares will be transferred to        reinvested to develop the local network. In addition
all adult Bolivians and held in trust until       to inadequate interconnection charges, the local
pension funds are established to manage           cooperatives' financial performance has suffered
these accounts.                                   since municipalities have not allowed local
companies to charge tariffs needed to cover their
20.    The Governmnt will sign aoperating expenses plus investmnent needs.  To
20.    The Government will sign a                   cmaintain and begi the expansion of Bolivia's
concession contract with ENTEL SA with the        telephone serice will require an investment of more
following features: (i) ENTEL will be             than US$600 million during the next decade,
allowed exclusive rights for five years to        concentrated almost entirely in the local service
provide long distance and international basic     network.
voice services, in the whole territory of
Bolivia; (ii) ENTEL will also be given the
rights for exclusive provision of local service for five years in those areas where the former
local telephone cooperatives have joined ENTEL; and (iii) ENTEL will be allowed to compete
in the provision of local service in areas where the local telephone coops decide not to join
with ENlEEiu order to improve the quantity and quality of services. The purpose of the
transition period is to give ENMEL the opportunity to make necessary adjustments under the
new structure, the new regulatory framework, and in view of its new obligations. ENTEL
will have the obligation to offer telecommunications services to rural areas, including those
that are now are being provided by ENTEL and another company, either directly or through
their specialized subsidiaries. The levels of coverage, maintenance, quality of service and
areas of operation will be specified in each concession agreement.
21.    The Government intends to present a Telecommunications Law to Congress for
passage with the following characteristics. It will: (i) delineate the specific responsibilities of
the Superintendency of Telecommunications; (ii) define the principles for new tariff structures
and interconnection charges to promote efficient development of the sector; and (iii) facilitate
immediate private sector entry into most aspects of the telecommunications sector (eased
private lines, cellular, data transmission and other value added services). The draft Law
specifies that where there is no competition, tariffs will be regulated by the Superintendency
using methods which incorporate an automatic adjustment formula. Initial tariffs during the
transition period will be calculated based on the cost for each class of service, and considering
a reasonable profit margin. Adjustments will be based on price cap methodology. The draft
Law envisages obligatory interconnection of public telecommunications networks, in a way
that will permit equal and nondiscriminatory interconnection.



TeJhkal Am= - VW AVkd
Page 9 f 18
Technical Assistance Requirements
22.   The major requirements for telecommunications sector reform are: (i) specific
consulting and investment banking assistance for the capitalization of EN7EL; and (ii) training
and equipment needs of the Superintendency of Telecommunications within CONARE.
23.   Caitization of ENTEL: A number of consultants and advisors with different types
of expertise will be required to prepare for and successfully complete the capitalization
process. The use of consultants will put an added pressure and responsibility on the
Telecommunications Working Group to coordinate and supervise the consultants to get the
best use and benefit of the advisory group. A general rule is that a few of the highest quality
advisors is much better for the process than several consultants doing smaller independent
projects. Following is a description of the key consultant requirements:
*   Financial Auditing, Accounting and Tax Advisors: This group of advisors should be
limited to the largest international accounting and consulting firms. One of these
firms will be contracted to prepare financil statements of the companies on the basis
of Generally Accepted Auditing Principles in Bolivia and the United States. This
work will include the subcontracting of an engineering firm to prepare an inventory
and valuation of the fixed assets of the companies according to technical and
accounting standards. Audits will be required for the year ended 1993 and a short
period at a specified period of time Just prior to the capitalization. The auditing firm
for ENIEL should be contracted as soon as possible while the auditing firm for the
cooperatives (could be the same firm) should not be contracted until after the
Telecommunications Law is passed. Key products related to this consultancy are: the
audited financial statements, asset inventory and valuation and valor de libros. Terms
of reference have been prepared for this work.
*   Financial Consultant: This advisor will be responsible for preparing a business plan
for the companies to be capitalized based on a 10-year planning period. This business
plan can be used as the basis for preparing the discounted cash flow valuation valor
financiero. Preparation of the business plan for the entire sector will include the
preparation of key inputs such as: tariff structure, new line expansion and line
replacements, productivity improvements, debt service, taxation, etc. This effort wIll
be completed based on a coordinated effort between the financial consultant, work
groups within the companies, and independent experts in the areas of tariffs and
network engineering. Qualified consultants in this category can include the 'Big Six'
firms listed above and smaller 'boutique firms" who specialize in telecommunications
valuations. Key )roducts include the 10-year business plan for the company or
companies and the valor financiero. Terms of Reference have been prepared for this
work.
* International and Local Legal Advisors: This advisory group will be responsible for
investigating all legal issues and providing recommendations. The Ministry of
Capitalization has decided to match international legal advisors specialized in
telecommunications transactions with local legal advisors. International advisors best
qualified in this field are those that already bave experience in privatizations of
telecommunications companies. The Government intends to contract legal advisors as



TechilAmia - The Pojec
PAe 19 of 18
soon as funding is available. Local independent legal advisors may be need to
investigate specific issues such as the cooperative transformation and capitalization and
other specific aspects related to preparation and presentation of the law to the
Congress. Key products include the telecommunications law and regulations,
concession contracts, buy/sell agreements, company statutes, etc. Terms of reference
have been prepared for this work.
0   Investment Bankers: This advisory group is primarily responsible for the world-wide
promotion, preparation of capitalization strategy, and final sale of the new shares to
the pre-ualified bidders. This advisor can also be asked to prepare the valor
financlero based on the business plans prepared by the financial consultants. Advisors
in this include the most prestigious merchant banks with telecommunications
privatization and merger and acquisitions experience. It is expected that the merchant
bankers will not be contracted until after the financial consultants have prepared the
business plans.
24.   Establishment of the Telecommunications Superintendency: The main requirements
for establishing the Telecommunications Superintendency within CONARE are for staff
training, and for some computer equipment and speciaiized equipment for frequency
monitoring. The specific technical assistance needs for this purpose are:
*   Training, in the: (i) economic and financial aspects of telecommunications regulation,
including price-cap and other regulatory pricing mechanisms and the accounting and
financial requirements of regulation; (ii) technical aspects of regulation, particularly
those referring to frequency spectrum management and planning, localization and
solving interference problems between stations; (iii) legal aspects of regulation,
specifically those related to concession contract enforcement and monitoring,
resolution of disputes between operators and between the regulatory entity and the
Government, and resolution of complaints and disputes between consumers and
operators; (iv) technical aspects of interconnection between operators, and quality of
service assessment. Under the proposed training program, a twinning arrangement
between the Bolivian Superintendency of Telecommunications and a foreign
telecommunications regulatory agency will be established. Staff from the
Superintendency of Telecommunications will go on short missions to the foreign
agency to receive "on-the-job training. The program will also finance the sending of
the Superintendency's staff to attend short seminars on telecommunications regulatory
issues.
*   Equipmentfor the Regulatory Agency: Frequency monitoring and computer
equipment wll be required for the Superintendency of Telecommunications.
Frequency monitoring equipment is required to enable the regulator to enforce the
spectrum regulations. For this purpose, the entity should be equipped with frequency
monitoring equipment of national coverage. Three stations will, initially, cover the
major centers of Bolivia, in La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. Computer systems
will be required to access a data base of frequencies as well as a data base of technical
and financial data of the operators.



Technice Anna - 77e PrJoect
Page 11 of18
Cost Estimate
25.   The total estimated cost of the program for telecommunications reform and the
capitalization of EMEL as outlined above is US$9.8 million equivalent, of which US$6.3
million is being considered for financing under the proposed IDA Credit. Details of the
estimate for individual components are contained in the following table:
Table 3 - Estimated Cost of Telecommunications Reform and the Capitalization of ENEL
(US$)
Item                               Total Cost     Financed by     Proposedfor
Others        IDA Credit
Capitalizing EMNEL
- Legal Advisors                      660,000          200,000         460,000
- Financial/Technical Advisors       1,360,000         300,000       1,060,000
- Other consultants                   680,000          200,000         480,000
- Investment Bank                    2,460,000       2,000,000         460,000
Regulatory Superintendency
- Advsors                              160,000              0          160,000
- Training                            280,000          100,000         180,000
Regulatory Equipment
- Frequency monitoring               3,500,000         500,000       3,000,000
- Computer hardware/software          700,000          200,000         500,000
Total                         9,800,000        3,500,000       6,300,000
Aviation Sector Reform
Background and Sector Strategy
26.   The proper organization of the aviation sector is crucial for the development and
integration of Bolivia, as well as for assuring the safety of air travelers. Bolivia's aviation
sector is characterized by relatively high state intervention and lacks a ^lear and effective
regulatory framework. This has translated into inefficiencies in the pro,vision of air traffic
and airport-related services. As part of its reform agenda, the Goverument has already passed
Supreme Decree 21060 which deregulated domestic air traffic tariffs. The impact of this
ruling has already created stronger private competition in the maklcet.
27.   The Government wishes to restructure the sector to promote private sector
participation, make domestic and international air service more efficient and reduce
government involvement when inappropriate. The three basic tenets of the reform program
are dealing with the: (i) international and domestic airline sectors; (ii) airports sector; and
(iii) adaptation of the institutional and regulatory framework. The Government proposes to
capitalize LAB in a manner that fosters competition in the domestic airline sector. The



TeckakelAnnea. The Projet
Page 12 of 18
Government also wishes to develop a level playing field by eliminating implicit subsidies to
individual airlines, particularly in the case of Transportes Aereos Milltares (TAM) and
Transportes Aereos Bolivianos (TAB). Domestic routes to non-commercial destinations will
be auctioned to the domestic airline that requires the lower compensation. The Government
wil either convert TAM and TAB into commercial enterprises that function within the
competitive market or they will discontinue commercial services and be integrated into the
mSitary sector.
28.   Concerning the airports sector, the Government intends to restructure AASANA, the
airport services public enterprise, so that: (i) most of the airport-related activities, excluding
air traffic control services, are transferred to the private sector; (ii) a redimensioned AASANA
(most probably a new entity) will retain responsibility only for operating air traffic control
services; (iii) airport administration is decentralized through the creation of regional airport
authorities, with private sector and regional entities' involvement and; (iv) airport tariffs and
rates are more comparable with those in neighboring countries. A Supreme Decree that
reduces existing Bolivian airport tariffs and fees by 15% has been submitted for approval.
29.   Concerning the institutional and regulatory framework of the aviation sector, the
Governmaent intends to: (i) adapt the current aeronautical legislation to the new organization in
the aviation sector, as well as to the new laws submitted or in preparation (e.g., the
Capitalization Law, sector's regulatory law, etc.); (i) adjust the general aviation policy as
well as the intemational aviation policy, to conform to the changes in the aviation sector; and
lii) create the civil aviation authority (regulatory body) for aviation related matters.
Technical Assistance Requirements
30.   Technical assistance is required for (i) the capitalization of LAB; (ii) the restructuring
and privatization of AASANA; (iii) the development of a suitable institutional and regulatory
structure for the aviation sector; and (iv) the restructuring of the smaller domestic airline
operations of TAB and TAM.
31.   Capitalton of LAB will require the following inputs:
* Specialized Consulting Firm, in order to carry out: (i) a technical audit and valuation
of LAB, including market valuation of the assets related to the air transport operation
such as aircraft (seven B-727, one A-310, one B-707 and two Fokkers), ground
handling equipment, spare parts, etc, and a market valuation of LAB's routes in the
period 1995-2000, including projected net operating profit of routes under different
scenarios of load factor and fuel prices, taking into account existing competition.
Market value of recent sales of airline routes (e.g., Delta and Pan Am, American
Airlines and Pan Am, etc.), and comparative analysis with LAB; (ii) the preparation of
a strategic plan (1995-2000) which would incorporate a "stand alone" strategic plan
of the enterprise as if LAB were a private company, including a market strategy and
its basic assumptions, a fleet renovation plan, projected passenger and cargo traffic
figures and estimated operating income, operational costs (aircraft related, traffic
related, aircraft property related and general administrative expenses), and financial
projections; (iii) route synergy assessment based on proposed alliances with potential
strategic partners, which would require identification of potential strategic partners for



Technkat Annex - nhe Projed
Page 13 of 18
LAB (based on present route structure plus LAB's unused traffic rights), and a
quantification of the synergy between LAB and the potential strategic partners. Terms
of reference have been prepared for this work.
O    An Investment Bank to design a capitalization plan, including (i) definition of pre-
qualifications conditions, including required bidder's ownership structure in order for
LAB to maintain flag carrier status, type and size of strategic airline partner required
(e.g., number of RPK's per year, minimum average load factor, etc.), and financial
requirements of the strategic airline partner; (ii) definition of the bidding conditions of
the capital increase, including a proposed five year investment plan, a time period for
exclusivity in the use of LAB's intemational traffic rights, rights and veto power of
the Bolivian Government, and a capitalization methodology for LAB (i.e., special
reference to the possibility of capitalizing aircraft related assets); (iii) determination of
the base value of LAB's equity prior to the capitalization; design of an appropriate
program for employee stock ownership participation; (iv) preparation of the
Information Memorandum; and (v) execution of the capitalization plan, including
preparation of a "road show", pre-qualification of potential investors, coordination of
the arrangements for international public bidding, evaluation of bids and closing of
transactions.
3    Corporate Lawers, to provide legal counseling to the capitalization process of LAB.
These experts will prepare the necessary draft documents supporting the process,
according to the existing legal framework in Bolivia, including: (i) assistance in pre-
qualification of potential investors; fii) preparation of bidding conditions;
(iii) evaluation of the existing regulatory/legal framework for LAB's operations as it
may effect domestic markets (e.g.,routes designation, fares policy, airport tariff
policies, etc.) and international market (e.g., Bilateral, Open Skies Agreements, etc.)
and a description of LAB's traffic rights (use and unused); (iv) preparation of a legal
audit; and (v) preparation of document changes in the by-laws and for the
shareholder's assembly of LAB.
*   Financial Auditors, to develop the accounting audit of the financial statements of
December 31, 1993 as well as for the financial statements of the selected transaction
date (i.e., shareholders assembly).
32.   Restructuring and pnivaliaon of AASANA will require:
*   A Specialized Consulting Flrmn to undertake a restructuring study of the airports in
Bolivia according to the following guidelines: (i) division of the functions of AASANA
into air navigation services (i.e., air traffic control, overflight services,
communications, meteorology, approach and landing, etc.), and airport operations
(i.e., aircraft-related services, passenger related services and administration of
concessions); (ii) creation of a new Air Navigation Services institution under the
supervision of the Civil Aviation Authority (i.e., Subsecretary of Aeronautics or
similar) and with provision of services nationwide; (iii) creation and corporatization of
regional airport authorities for the administration of the airport services; (iv) analysis
of the financial system of airports in Bolivia and development of a new system
according to the proposed National Airports structure (i.e., revenue and income



TedilalAnnex - Hu Project
page 14 of 18
allocation between the different participants - Civil Aviation Authority, Air Navigation
Services, Airport Authority, etc.); and (v) the preparation of recommendations of
privatization strategies for the different airports authorities (e.g., master concession,
multiple concessions, private ownership, private build/ownloperate/transfer schemes,
long term lease. etc.)
*   Corporate Lawyers to provide legal counseling to the restructuring and privatization
process of AASANA. These advisors will prepare the necessary draft documents
supporting the process, according to the existing Bolivian legal framework.
*   Investment Banks, for cases where the size of the airport operation is relatively
important for investment purposes (i.e., Santa Cruz, La Paz and Cochabamba), design
and execute the privatization program for the selected airport authority. In cases
where the size of the airport is relatively less important the use of a financial advisor
for the execution of the privatization strategy will be sufficient.
*   Financial auditors to develop the cost center financial statements for each participant
prior to the restructuring of the National Airport System.
33.   Development of an appropriate institonal and regulatoWry framework will require:
3 A Specialized Consulting Firmn or Advisor to: (i) prepare the analysis of the areas
subject to reglataion (e.g., aviation and safety standards, price setting and
competition, environmental standards, air traffic control, airport concessions, etc);
(ii) develop the insutional framework of the sector, including specific definition of
the role of the Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil, the centralized regulatory
agency and any other institution affecting the process (e.g., Fondo Nacional de
Aeronautica); (iii) complete the necessary preparatory work for the modernization of
the regulaory authority of the aviation sector (institutional set-up, structure of the
board, internal procedures, etc); review the current aeronatical legislation in
Bolivia. These experts will prepare, if needed, new regulations to conform with the
aviation sector's reform plan and assist the Government to prepare an appropriate
proposal for Bolivia's International avation poltcy which would support this plan.
34.   Restructuring of TAM and TAB will require:
*   A financial advisor, to develop a restructuring study of the air transport operations of
TAM and TAB. The study will analyze two options: (i) the potential corporatization
of passenger-related activities and further privatization of the enterprise and (ii) the
discontinuation of commercial services and full integration into the military sector.
The advisor will also assist the development of a system to auction non-commercial
routes to the private airline that requires the lowest level of compensation.
Cost Estimate
35.   The estimated cost of the program outlined above is US$3.44 million of which
US$1.92 million is proposed for financing under the proposed IDA Credit. Details of the
estimates for individual components are contained in the following table:



Technical Annex - The Projed
Page 15 of 18
Table 4 - Estimated Cost of Technical Assistance to the Aviation Sector
(US$)
item                              Total Cost    Financed by     Proposedfor
Others       IDA Credit
Capitalization of LAB
- Project Manager                    120,000                         120,000
- Specialized consuldtingfirm        330,000         100,000         230,000
- Investment bank
- Retainer                         320,000                        320,000
- Success Fee                      500,000        500,000
- Cowporate Lawyers                  100,000                         100,000
- Financial Auditors                  50,000          50,000
- Public relationsfirm                80,000                          80,000
Restructuring & Privatization of
AASANA
- Specialized consulting firm        750,000         720,000          30,000
- Financial auditors                  80,000          80,000
- Corporate lawyers                  150,000                         150,000
- Investment bank                    440,000                         440,000
- Public relationsfirm                70,000                          70,000
Insional & Regulatory
Framework
- Specialized advsor                 300,000          50,000         250,000
Restructuring of TAM & TAB
- Financial advisor                  150,000          20,000         130,000
Total                         3,440,000      1,520,000       1,920,000
Classification of Technical Assistance
36.   Technical assistance for this project includes the transfer and utilization of services,
skills, knowledge and technology to: (i) carry out policy studies for sector reform and
provide advice for the capitalization of key enterprises; (ii) support project preparation and
implementation; and (iii) establish and enhance the institutional development of CONARE.
The table below reflects the share of technical assistance resources that would be dedicated to
these activities.



Techaal Annex -e Projed
Pge 16 of 18
Table 5 - Classification of Technical Assistance
Cm thousands of US$)
Item                                    Policy       Project         ID       Total
Support   Preparation
Project Preparaton Facility                           1,000                  1,000
(1,000)                (1,000)
A. Ministry of Capitalkation            6,260                                6,260
(3,180)                              (3,180)
B. Technical Assistance to CONARE        300                     1,200       1,500
(300)                  (1,000)     (1,300)
C. Telecommunications Sector            5,160                      440       5,600
(2,460)                    (340)     (2,800)
D. Aviation Sector                      3,140                      300       3,440
(1,670)                    (250)     (1,920)
Total                           14,860         1,000       1,940     17,800
(7,610)      (1,000)    (1,590)    (10,200)
Note: Figures and parentheses indicate amounts financed by IDA.
Section B: Project Administration and Implementation
Project Implementation
37.   Responsibility for implementing the project lies directly with the Ministry of
Capitalization which is headed by and staffed with highly competent professionals who would
receive substantial support through the technical assistance provided under this project and the
other sectoral technical assistance operations which are planned. This support is already
underway, financed in part by the PPF which was provided for this operation. The Minister
of Capitalization is an experienced professional with previous management experience in both
the public and private sectors. Competent and professional working groups established in
each of the sectors are elaborating sector restructuring and enterprise capitalization plans.
The working groups are receiving significant assistance from foreign advisors with hands-on
experience in restructuring and privatization in their respective fields. The Government has
assigned the President of each of the enterprises with specific day-to-day responsibility for
monitoring and maintaining the pace of capitalization. The sectoral Secretaries are
responsible for leading the working groups on sectoral reform issues. A Legal Working
Group, working in close conjunction with the Ministry of Justice, has been overseeing and



TechnkeArnnex - The Projedt
Page 17 of 18
coordinating the drafting of the necessary enabling legislation. A program has been
developed for presenting this legislation to Congress in an orderly fashion once it reconvenes
at the beginning of August. The Ministry has set-up a competent and fully-staffed
procurement unit to deal with the large number of consulting contracts to be financed through
the project and this group is already receiving training and other support from Bank
procurement specialists. Tbis Ministry is also responsible for contracting the inital support
needed to establish CONARE.
38.   These arrangements, which have been consolidated and strengthened since the
appointment of the new Minister of Capitalization in April 1994, are already producing results
and should ensure rapid and efficient implementation of this project and the capitalization and
regulatory reform which it supports.
Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
39.   Procurement will be according to World Bank guidelines, and subject to normal Bank
review procedures. Consultant services would be procured according to the relevant Bank
procedures. Bolivian procurement rules will be modified through a Supreme Decree to allow
procurement of consultants related to the capitalization program to be handled by the
Government rather than through procurement agencies. The Draft Procurement Decree
establishes authorization levels for contract awards based on the size of the consulting
contract. After the usual selection steps, and with close involvement of the individual sectoral
working groups, recommendations for the granting of contracts for services will be made by a
Procurement Unit, to be formally established by the decree. Such recommendations will be
reviewed by IDA. For consultant contracts, terms of reference for most of the major
activities to be financed under the proposed Credit have already been prepared by the
Government and agreed to by IDA, and are available in the Project Files. The Bank's
standard forms of consultant contract would be utilized, including a short-form letter for
direct contracting of individual consultants for short-term assignments.
40.   Goods to be procured under the credit include an estimated US$3.5 million in
telecommunications regulatory equipment and computer equipment, an estimated US$0.5
million of computer and communications equipment in the Ministry of Capitalization, and an
estimated US$0.5 million for the production of advertising and collateral materials. These
will be procured as follows: (i) ICB for contracts valued at more than US$150,000, using
Bank-issued standard bidding documents; (ii) Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for contracts
valued at more than US$25,000 and less than US$150,000 (not exceeding US$600,000 in the
aggregate), using standard bidding documents approved by IDA; and (iii) for contracts valued
at less than US$25,000, through shopping procedures acceptable to the IDA (not exceeding
US$400,000 in the aggregate). Prior review will be mandatory for all ICB and LCB
procurement as well as for the fist contract procured through shopping.
Disbursements
41.   Disbursements will be administered by the Procurement Unit in the Secretariat of
Capitalization. A Special Account will be established within the Bolivian Central Bank for



TedhskajAwer - Th Projecd
PAe i8 of 18
the activities to be financed by this Credit. An initial deposit of US$1 million (equivalent to
four months of estimated disbursements) would be made into this account. Statements of
expenditure will be used for disbursements of up to US$25,000 equivalent in the case of
goods. In all other cases, full documentation wil be required. As detailed in Schedule B
attached to this Memorandum, disbursements would be made against 100% of the net-of-tax
costs of local and foreign consultants; 100% of training expenses; 100% of the CIF cost of
imported goods and of the ex-factory cost of local goods; and 85% of the cost of locally-
procured goods. Also, 100% of the net of taxes costs associated with the public information
campaign would be financed. Retroactive financing for consulting activities and related
equipment procured under Bank guidelines after May 1, 1994, is proposed, up to a limit of
US$1.47 million, equivalent to 10% of the proposed amount of the credit. The Project is
expected to be completed by end-1997. The closing date is June 30, 1998.
Records and Auditig
42.   Records and auditing will be the responsibility of the Procurement Unit, which will
establish separate accounts for each component and will monitor all expenditures financed by
the project. The Bolivian Central Bank will maintain separate records and accounts for all
transactions under the credit. Project accounts, the special account and statements of
expenditures will be audited each year by auditors satisfactory to IDA within 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year. In addition to this financial reporting, a full progress report will
be prepared and submitted to IDA every six months. This report will detail all project and
related activities, report on progress in relation to agreed schedules, and identify any
problems which may have been encountered and which could adversely affect the overall
impact of the project. These reporting requirements were confirmed during negotiations.



BOLIVIA - REGULATORY REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE ONE
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Mafn Objectives     Project Component   Expected Output       77ming Targets
Mail Objectives    I Activities                  O
Strengthening the   Legal and           Sectoral reform laws    Start: Second Quarter
Capacity of the     privatization       and regulations in the   1994
Ministry of         advisors            hydrocarbons,
Capitalization                          electricity,          Completion:
telecommunications,    Reform laws
mining and railways    ^ompleted by first
sectors and regulations  quarter 1995.
for the aviation sector.
Draft financial sector   Key regulations
reform laws produced.  completed by end-
Capitalization of 6   1995
public enterprises and
privatization of      Capitalizations
AASANA.               completed by Second
Quarter 1997
Establishment of    Administration of all   Start: Second Quarter
procurement unit    contracts to be       1994
awarded for sectoral
reform and            Completion: End
capitalization        1997
Public Information    Development of      Start: Third Quarter
Campaign            sectoral, national and    1994
international
campaigns             End: Third Quarter
1996
Strengthening the   Establishment of    Full-time technical   Start: Fourth Quarter
Institutional       CONARE              advisor to help        1994
Capacity of the                         establish CONARE
Regulatory Agency                       and provide on-site   End: Fourth Quarter
(CONARE)                                expertise             1995
Consultant Studies    Organization and    Start: Fourth Quarter
staffing of CONARE,   1994
development of policy
and personnel manuals  End: Second Quarter
,_______________   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _  1995



Schedk One -ey Project Activiie
Pge 2 of 5
Main Objectives    Project Component   Expected Output        7iming Targets
Activities                                                    l
Training Programs    Staff to gain        Start: Fourth Quarter
for CONARE Staff  familiarity with cross-  1994
sectoral issues such as
the role of the      End: Second Quarter
regulator, concession    1996
management, anti-trust
issues, community
relations and
l________________                       administrative law.
Twinning            Contacts with         Start: Fourth Quarter
arrangements        regulatory agencies in  1994
other countries
End: Second Quarter
1996
Telecommunications |relecommunications  Technical support to    Start: Third Quarter
Sector Reform      Law                  help explain the law to  1994
the legislative branch
End: Fourth Quarter
1994
Telecommunications  Assistance in drafting   Start: Third Quarter
Regulations        the regulations        1994
End: Third Quarter
1995
Training of         Training to gain      Start: Fourth Quarter
CONARE              familiarity in the    1994
telecommunications   legal, economic, and
superintendency     financial aspects of  End: Second Quarter
staff              regulation, frequency    1996
monitoring and
management,
interconnection issues,
etc.                                      [l
Installation of     Knowledge and proper  Start: Second Quarter
specialized         use of equipment by    1995
equipment for the    regulatory staff
Telecommunications                        End: Fourth Quarter
Superintendency                           1995
Aviation Sector    Preparation of       Assistance in drafring   Start: Second Quarter
Reform             regulations for the    regulations         1994
aviation sector
End: End-1994



Schedu One - key Projea AactJ
Page 3 of S
Main Objectives     Project Component   Expected Output         7iming Targets
_Activities                                                      I
Capitalization of    Specialized consulting   Start: Third Quarter
LAB                  firm to prepare a      1994
technical audit and
valuation & strategic    End: First Quarter
plan; financial        1995
auditors to audit
company; investment
bankers for
transaction; corporate
lawyers for the
capitalization process
Restructuring of     Consulting firm to     Start: Third Quarter
AASANA               implement              1994
restructuring study of
the Bolivian airports    End: Second Quarter
system. Investment     1997
bankers, corporate
lawyers and financial
auditors to help with
the privatization of
airports.
Restructuring of     Financial advisor to   Start: Fourth Quarter
TAM & TAB            analyze prospective    1994
operations and prepare
a restructuring,       End: Fourth Quarter
privatization or       1995
l ________________   _________________    liquidation  proposal                    ,-,
Note: The Ministry of Capitalization is responsible for implementating all project components.



*   Q1  b  I.) #'m  -  ~~~~ *   S   %   *W4   0  Ii'  -   ~~~~  &  i'm ~~      -   -
:4.                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
* Is
$"AV fix n ao .pmp.,



mCULATORY REFORM CAPITALZATION TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1994                     1095                     iS9B                     1997
to   "Sam           __ _Duton -Qtt21Oqt3 IQtr4 -Qttuil-O2 1Ot31OVt4  QIt Il 0U210Qtr3   (WQ4  OVI1l-Oi-21Qtr3-
28   Telecommunatlezone Se8tor Refota                 427d 3
29      lnformwaon Canpaign                            60d      :      am
30       Draft Telecommunaonse RagAons                260d             I
3 1      Trainingl Supsdatendeac  Staf                390d      *       I IIIII1       1     1fl1111il
32      Installation of Equipment                     1 30d
33   Aviation Sector Refotrm                          818d 
34       Preparatdon of Regulations                   1 65d
3S       Restructurina of AASANA                      70        .g[r11Fr1Jfll 
36       Resuctuidno of TAM & TAB                     2BOd
Protect                          Crtcals  iiiiiia             ProgreS                     SumUmat
Dote: O14194                     Noncticald                   bileoane  O                 Rold Up  O
Page 2



IBRD 20518
B R A  Z I t                                                               B           L I V  I A 
/,_   ,,^,i, I,i                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROA^DS:
_   \                    / TF-y L__                                                                              s
\    |   '5   /      i ~'                                                    @     Notional CapItol
-t2'                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deportotet Boundaries
l=nTrernottanal dB8 tonaes
HiTvo.Sllos                                                                                           , AlHplono
/   .                  /            @         , X    's,;eS5nJoOqwin      <                                 Volleys
;      g                            5-Rnndn O     clono <~9onu                                 Lowlands
PnE R    U .          Onos      /       , drso°5no .ewn5 s o,"
r1U            o"     rlo                                                                                    (   IOd2I5  5,N0 10   C    5
5   °t4*R,e5 O5FtOtt   1   L   s X  I  o -                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
0550                                                                                                           190      ISO~
A PA   Z                                        WSDADosFo                                          IC            MILES
Two                                                                                                                                                 16at  M1 
2t°tai°."dI                                               Ye ied ~             A n          A       CPU7B                 Z I  
oc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o
a                                                                                                                  Robots~0 R     R C)P-t
SALT PAN ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
r            1 N              /<   PARAGUAY Flny '                                                                                 iPARUA
rS_                                               f7w                             =                C ltCHUcUISA7.)tlto 
~~\C                     T       S                          not         vnwto.    /                  w2                      )-      BlleJRAIL<, 
(lARGENTINA /
To A.bpftA R  GENTI N A 
/                                   tErbotsot(I                                                           0(0



