Page  1
July 31, 1997
H.E. Fernando Candia 
Minister of Finance 
Republic of Bolivia 
Palacio de las Comunicaciones 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz Esq. Oruro, Piso 19 
La Paz, Bolivia
   Re: Credit No. 2647-BO
(Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical
Assistance Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Minister Candia:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 28, 1994, between 
the Republic of Bolivia and the International Development Association for the above 
referenced Project, as amended, and to the letter SIPFE/SFE/NEG/2293/97, from the 
National Secretary of Public Investment and External Financing, requesting an 
amendment to that Development Credit Agreement, for purposes of ensuring the 
continuity of the institutional strengthening of SIRESE. 
We agree with such request and propose to amend the Development Credit Agreement 
as follows:
1. Section 1.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
"(b) "SIRESE" means the Sectorial Regulatory System (Sistema de 
Regulación Sectorial) established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 1600, 
dated October 28, 1994);".
2. The word "CONARE" is replaced by "SIRESE" wherever it appears in the Development 
Credit Agreement.
3. Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 2.09.  The Minister of Capitalization (in respect of Parts A, 
C.1 and D of the Project) and the General Superintendent of SIRESE ( in 
respect of Parts B and C.2 of the Project), or such other person or persons as 
any of 
them shall appoint in writing (with respect to the Parts of the Project 
under their 
respective responsibility) are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be  taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General 
Conditions."
4. Section 3.01 (a) is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall carry out Parts A, C.1 and D of the Project, through MOC, 
and Parts B and C.2 of the Project, through the General Superintendency of 
SIRESE, with the assistance, as applicable, of the relevant Sectorial 
Superintendency of SIRESE, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate financial, economic and administrative practices, 
and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources required for the Project."
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date both copies of 
this letter and return one to the World Bank’s Resident Mission in La Paz. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter countersigned by you, the 
amendments will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  2
/s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
/s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: July 31, 1997
