Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2647 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Regulatory Reform and Capitalization
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 28, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2647 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of France (France) a 
grant (the French Grant) in an amount of French Francs five million (F 5,000,000) to 
assist in financing Part D.2 (a) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the French Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and France; and
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Multilateral Investment Fund 
(Technical Cooperation Facility) (MIF) of the Inter-American Development Bank a grant 
(the MIF Grant) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $2,336,000 to assist in 
financing Part A.1 and A.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the MIF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and MIF; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AASANA" means Administracion Autonoma de Servicios Auxiliares a la 
Navegacion Aerea, the Borrower's airports administration public enterprise;
(b)
"CONARE" means the national commission to be established by the Borrower 
as the agency responsible for regulating certain activities in the communications, 
electricity, hydrocarbons and transport sectors;
(c)
"ENTEL" means Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's 
telecommunications public enterprise;
(d)
"ENTEL's Capitalization Plan" means the plan for the capitalization of 
ENTEL and other local operators providing telecommunications services contained in the 
letter from the Borrower to the Association dated May 26, 1994;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on January 
1 each year;
(f)
"LAB" means Lloyd Aereo Boliviano S.A.M., one of the Borrower's airlines;
 
(g)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Capitalization;
 
(h)
"Procurement Decree" means the decree, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be enacted by the Borrower to authorize the contracting of consultants services 
related to the Borrower's capitalization program without the requirement that 
procurement agents be contracted to that effect;
(i)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre- paration advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 12, 1993 and August 24, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association, as 
amended on May 24, 1994;
(j)
"Reform Plan of the Aviation Sector" means the plan for the reform of the 
aviation sector including the privatization and/or capitalization of the Borrower's 
airports and airlines contained in the letter from the Borrower to the Association 
dated May 26, 1994;
(k)
"Regulatory Agency Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower for 
the establishment of CONARE;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"TAB" means Transportes Aereos Bolivianos, one of the Borrower's 
airlines;
(n)
"TAM" means Transportes Aereos Militares, one of the Borrower's airlines; 
and
(o)
"Telecommunications Regulatory Superintendency" means the 
telecommunications superintendency to be established by the Borrower under CONARE as 
the superintendency responsible for regulating the telecommunications sector.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15  commencing September 15, 2004, and ending March 15, 2034. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2014 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent  to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an  annual rate agreed with the Association 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Capitalization or the person or persons he shall 
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, economic and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation targets set forth in 
the Annex to a supplemental letter of even date herewith.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  5
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and separate accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The MIF Grant Agreement or the French Grant Agreement shall have failed 
to become effective by March 31, 1995, or such later date as the Association may 
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the  satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms thereof.
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension or cancellation is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Procurement Decree has been enacted.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Procurement Decree 
has been duly enacted.
Section 6.03. The date October 26, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Economic Development and the Secretary of Finance of the Borrower are 
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
Page  6
   and/or Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda y Desarrollo Economico
Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Cajon Postal-Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar Esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)     Consultants                                 100%
    Services:
    (a) for Parts A.1               1,640,000)
        and A.2 of                           )
        the Project                          )
             )
    (b) for Part B                    510,000)
        of the                               )
Page  7
        Project                              )
             )
    (c) (i) for Part C.1            1,560,000)
            of the Project                   )
             )
        (ii) for Part C.2 of          110,000)
            the Project                      )
                                             )
    (d) for Part D (other           1,220,000)
        than Part D.2(a))                    )
        of the Project                       )
(2)     Goods:
                                                    100% of foreign
    (a)  for Part A.1                 320,000)      expenditures,
        and A.2                              )      100% of local
        of the                               )      expenditures
                                             )      (ex-factory cost)
    (b) for Part C                  2,230,000)      and 85% of local
        of the                               )      expenditures for
        Project                              )      other items
                                             )      procured locally
(3) Public Information                700,000       100%
    Campaign
(4) Training                          430,000       100%
(5) Refunding of             
        710,000
    Project                                         Amounts due pur-
    Preparation                                     suant to Section
    Advance                                         2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(6) Unallocated                     1,070,000
        TOTAL                      10,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Public Information Campaign" means the cost of: (a) consultants 
services required for the implementation of Parts A.3 (a) and A.3 (c) of the Project; 
(b) the design, production and dissemination of advertising and collateral materials 
(including radio and  television time and publications); and (c) the imple- mentation 
of the special events referred to in Part A.3 of the Project (including travel cost 
and per diem of MOC's staff participating in such events); and
(d)
the term "Training" means the cost of training of CONARE's staff under 
Part B.2 of the Project, excluding consultants services fees but including the costs 
of materials and other expenses related to such training.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,050,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 
1994;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Subcategory (4)  unless the 
Regulatory Agency Law has been enacted in substance satisfactory to the Association 
and CONARE has been established in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Subcategory (1) (c) (ii) unless the 
Telecommunications Regulatory Superintendency has been established; and
Page  8
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (a) and (3) which MIF 
shall have financed or agreed to finance under the MIF Grant Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the capacity of MOC to 
manage the reform of the communications, electricity, hydrocarbons, transport and 
mining sectors, and the capitalization of the Borrower's enterprises operating in such 
sectors; (b) to assist the Borrower in the establishment of CONARE; (c) to develop the 
policy and related legislation necessary for the reorganization of the 
telecommunications sector and the capitalization of ENTEL; and (d) to develop the 
privatization and capitalization policy for the aviation sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
MOC Strengthening
 
Strengthening MOC's capacity to manage and implement the Borrower's 
capitalization program in the communications, electricity, hydrocarbons, transport and 
mining sectors including, inter alia:
1.
the provision of legal and privatization advisors to assist in the drafting of 
necessary legislation and regulations and to devise and carry out the capitalization 
strategies for the enterprises involved;
2.
the establishment and operation of a procurement unit within MOC; and
 
3.
a public information campaign consisting of: (a) the development of a 
communications strategy, consisting of sectoral, national and international campaigns; 
(b) the design, production and dissemination of advertising and collateral materials; 
(c) the implementation of a research and  development program in order to accurately 
identify the knowledge and perceptions of the general public and major stakeholders 
regarding the capitalization program; and (d) special events, such as seminars and 
training programs, organized in order to educate major stakeholders about the 
capitalization program.
Part B:
CONARE Strengthening
 
1.
Studies to develop: (a) the organizational structure, and to identify the 
staffing requirements of CONARE; and (b) the policies and operational procedures for 
the management of CONARE's financial and human resources. 
2.
Training of CONARE's staff in:
 
(a)
cross-sectoral regulatory matters such as the role of the regulatory 
agency vis-a-vis industry, consumers and other governmental authorities, price 
regulation theory and administration,  concessions management, basic concepts of 
anti-trust law and policy, community relations covering, inter alia, the role of 
consumers in the regulatory process, and basic concepts of administrative law; and
(b)
sector-specific issues including, inter alia, twinning and other 
arrangements with regulatory institutions in other countries to provide CONARE's staff 
with the benefit of the experience of longer-established regulatory agencies in other 
countries, and overseas visits by key staff to other agencies and relevant 
conferences.
Part C:
Telecommunications Sector
 
1.
Implementation of ENTEL's Capitalization Plan including, inter alia, the 
provision of audit, accounting, tax, financial and legal advisors to assist in the 
preparation of the financial audits and business plans, and the drafting of a 
telecommunications law and other legislation, and  documents related to the 
Page  9
capitalization of ENTEL and other local operators providing telecommunications 
services;
2.
Reform of the telecommunications sector including:
 
(a)
advice to, and training of, the Telecommunications Regulatory 
Superintendency's staff in the legal, economic, financial and technical aspects of 
sector regulation and monitoring, and the management of telecommunication frequencies 
and interconnections between operators; and
(b)
provision and utilization of specialized equipment for the 
Telecommunications Regulatory Superintendency including frequency monitoring equipment 
and computer hardware and software.
Part D:
Aviation Sector
 
1.
Preparation for the capitalization of LAB including, inter alia, the provision 
of financial, legal and technical advisors to assist in:
(a)
a technical audit and valuation of LAB and the development of a strategic 
operational plan for LAB, including an analysis of route synergy with potential 
strategic partners;
(b)
a financial audit of LAB; and
 
(c)
the preparation of the legal agreements and other documents required 
therefor.
2.
Restructuring of AASANA, including, inter alia:
 
(a)
a study for the restructuring of the Borrower's airports system; and
 
(b)
the provision of legal and financial advisors to assist in the 
preparation and implementation of privatization strategies for the Borrower's 
airports.
3.
Development of the institutional framework of the aviation sector, including, 
inter alia:
(a)
the determination of areas subject to regulation;
 
(b)
a review of the institutions with regulatory responsibilities in the 
sector and identification of the need for any restructuring thereof; and
(c)
the review and identification of any required changes to the Borrower's 
aeronautical legislation for the implementation of the Reform Plan of the Aviation 
Sector.
4.
Restructuring of TAM and TAB including, inter alia, the analysis of current and 
prospective operations of such companies, and the preparation of the restructuring, 
privatization and/or liquidation proposals therefor.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
Page  10
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant  standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods (other than telecommunications equipment under Part C.2 (b) of the 
Project) and production of advertising and collateral materials under Part A.3 (b) of 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract and 
printing and distribution of advertising and collateral materials under Part A.3 (b) 
and (d) of the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A and C.1 hereof, and the first contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contracts.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Page  11
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association  shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  12
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
