                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25917

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-42540; SCL-42541)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF 10 US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                 TO THE

                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                                 FOR A

                       RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                              May 12, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 6, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
                                   DH 1.00 = US$ 0.10
                                  US$ 1.00 = DH 9.9

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1  December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD       French Development Agency/ Agence Française de Développement
BAJ       Social Priorities Program/ Barnamaj al-Aoulaouaiyat al-Ijtimaiya
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CR        Rural Commune/ Commune Rurale
DGH       General Directorate of Hydraulics/ Direction Générale de l'Hydraulique
DPE       Provincial Department of Equipment/ Direction Provinciale de l'Equipement
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FAO/CP    FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FAO/IC    FAO Investment Centre
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
HC        Individual House Connections/ Branchements individuels
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KfW       German Bank for Reconstruction and Development/ Kreditanstalt für
          Wiederaufbau
MTR       Mid-term Review
NBF       Not Bank Financed
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPV       Net Present Value
ONEP      National Potable Water Authority/ Office National de l'Eau Potable
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAGER     Water Supply Program for Rural Populations/ Programme
          d'Approvisionnement Groupé en Eau Potable des Populations Rurales
PCD       Project Concept Document
PF        Public Fountains
PRA       Participatory Rural Appraisal
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RWS       Rural Water Supply
SMT       Social Mobilization Team
TA        Technical Assistance
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    United Nations Children Fund
WUA       Water Users Associations

                 Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
      Country Manager/Director:   Theodore O. Ahlers
       Sector Manager/Director:   Letitia Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marie-Laure Lajaunie

                                          MOROCCO
                      RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P040566                                                      Project Name: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                         SANITATION
Team Leader: Marie-Laure Lajaunie                                        TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 9, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION L/C/TF Number: SCL-42540; SCL-42541
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (84%); Sub-national government administration (7%);
                            Sanitation (6%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Other human development (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (S); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/06/1996                                        Effective: 03/01/1998              01/05/1999
   Appraisal:    02/10/1997                                            MTR: 12/31/1999                06/22/2001
    Approval:    11/25/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MOROCCO/DGH
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Health

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            J-L. Sarbib                                         K. Dervis
Country Director:          Theodore Ahlers                                     C. Delvoie
Sector Manager:            L. Obeng                                            S. Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:        M-L. Lajaunie                                       P. Koenig T. Sinha
ICR Primary Author(s): M-L Lajaunie; S.Tillier


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                                HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The objective of the project was to improve the access of rural populations to safe water. By
improving rural water supply (RWS), the project aimed to improve the health and productivity of rural
populations, and to reduce the burden of girls who were traditionally involved in fetching water, reducing
their school attendance.

         The project objective was clear and realistic and reflected essential priorities for rural and social
development in Morocco, as identified both by the Government and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS, Report No. 16219-MOR, 1997). At project appraisal, only about 20% of Morocco's rural
population had access to safe drinking water. This, together with inadequate sanitation and hygiene
practices, was a major cause for water-related diseases among rural populations. The project supported the
first phase of a national program (PAGER, French acronym for National Program for Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation) designed to implement Government's Master Plan for the Development of RWS. It also
supported one of the three key objectives of the CAS, which was to strengthen rural and social development
focusing on basic education, health care, water supply and other rural infrastructure.

         The project objective remains highly relevant. The Government recently affirmed its intention to
further increase and speed up RWS coverage, raising the target from an 80% access rate by 2010 to 92%
by 2007. Its recent "2020 Rural Development Strategy" calls for the expansion of basic rural
infrastructure, user participation and integration of rural women in the development process. Also, the
Bank's core program for Morocco as stated in the present CAS (Report No. 22115-MOR, 2001) includes a
provision for continued support to RWS and sanitation.

         The project was rather demanding on the implementing agencies and on the beneficiaries. The
project involved several parallel financiers and sought to introduce at the national level a shift from the
conventional supply-driven approach to service provision, to a new demand-responsive and
community-based approach, focusing on what users want, are willing to pay for and sustain. This new
approach required the implementing agencies to expand their area of expertise to focus on social capital,
with the same intensity as they had devoted so far to technical/engineering matters. On the beneficiary side,
the setting up of village-level institutions (WUA) to participate in the design and take over the O&M of the
water supply schemes was a novelty for most villages.


3.2 Revised Objective:

         The project objective was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project targeted 27 priority provinces out of a total of 58 rural provinces country-wide. Out of
the 27 provinces, 6 were to be financed by the Bank, and the others by AFD, JBIC and KfW. The project
had four components:

A. Rural Water Supply (US$ 46.7 million, of which US$ 10.5 million in Bank-financed provinces). This
component consisted in the construction and rehabilitation of water supply facilities. The General
Directorate of Hydraulics (DGH) was to implement the project in communities, villages and groups of



                                                      - 2 -

villages with populations from about 250 to 3,500 people. The National Potable Water Authority (ONEP)
was to focus on larger rural centers and villages located near existing ONEP regional water pipelines.
Supply modes were expected to depend on water availability, beneficiary demand and willingness-to-pay
(WTP), and investment and recurrent costs. They ranged from simple well or rainwater collection systems
equipped with handpumps to well/borehole with electric/diesel or solar pump, storage tank and small
distribution systems, allowing for several public fountains (PF) or house connections (HC).

B. Rural Sanitation (US$ 5.1 million, of which US$ 1.1 million in Bank-financed provinces). This
component consisted in the construction of household latrines and block latrines for schools and health
centers. It also included a pilot demonstration of one or two small-bore sewerage systems with a communal
septic tank.

C. Local Institutional Strengthening (US$ 4.6 million, of which US$ 1.0 million in Bank-financed
provinces). This component included the creation, training and operation of Social Mobilization Teams
(SMT), responsible for implementation of the participatory, demand-responsive approach and hygiene
education. SMT had the duty to help beneficiaries establish water users associations (WUA) or similar
management structure at the village level to participate in project design and construction and to take over
O&M of the schemes after proper training.

D. Central and Provincial Support (US$ 0.6 million, of which US$ 0.1 million in Bank-financed
provinces). This consisted in consultant services to provide technical back-stopping, and monitoring and
evaluation for decentralized project implementation.

         The components were well designed to meet the project objective, were in line with the capacity of
the implementing agencies, and took into account relevant lessons learned from prior experience in the
country/sector:

· Past experience in Morocco showed that the traditional supply-driven approach to RWS ­ whereby
government agencies decided which communities should receive what services ­ had generally not been
sustainable. Based on successful pilots and best practices at the time, the project introduced a participatory
and demand-responsive approach to service provision.

· This approach was new to DGH, just as community participation was new in Morocco. The project,
therefore, allocated funds to the development of government expertise in "social capital". More
specifically, the project supported the creation, training and operation of SMT that would guarantee
continued support to the WUA, until they were ready to manage the water system both technically and
financially on their own. Also, in order to limit management complexity, a community was not to exceed
10,000 people to be eligible.

· The project also took into account the need to provide safe sanitation and improve hygiene practices in
order to reap the full health benefits from safe water supply. The sanitation component was rather limited
in scope, which was in line with the expected small increase in wastewater generation (most investments in
RWS were expected to provide public fountains in small communities). In case house connections were
requested by the beneficiaries, which was expected to be rare, the existence of proper household sanitation
was a prerequisite to installation.

         The project was designed to ensure cost-effectiveness. In order to reach the largest possible
number of beneficiaries, the project placed per capita ceilings on investment. Beneficiaries were expected
to contribute at least 5% to investment (with the rural commune (CR) contributing a further 15%) and to


                                                      - 3 -

pay full O&M and replacement costs. These ceilings and cost-sharing arrangements applied to RWS
schemes equipped with public fountains (PF), considered as the minimum service level. Investments with
higher unit cost and/or higher service level (such as house connections) were eligible, provided that
beneficiaries agreed to finance 100% of the incremental cost.

         In retrospect, two main shortcomings were identified in project's design. First, the project did not
include any formal coordination mechanism and/or specific budget allocation to enable the Ministry of
Health (MOH) to carry out the activities under its responsibilities (control of water quality and sanitary
conditions of water points and hygiene education). Second, the fact that the sanitation component was
entirely financed by beneficiaries and rural communes made monitoring difficult.

3.4 Revised Components:

         There was no revision of project components. However, after effectiveness of the Bank loan, it
was agreed at the Government's request that all proceeds of the loan would be channeled to DGH, as
ONEP's investments in rural areas were to be funded by a "PAGER tax" on urban water instated in 1998.
As a result, the project was entirely implemented by DGH.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Quality at Entry is rated highly satisfactory. The project objective was fully consistent with the
Bank's CAS and Government strategies. The participatory approach was well defined. Close coordination
was established with the donor community and joint appraisal with other parallel financiers furthered the
adoption of the project approach at the national level. The only reservations relate to the lack of formal
coordination and/or specific budget allocation to enable the Ministry of Health (MOH) to carry out the
activities under its responsibilities.

         The project was consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies for environmental and social issues.
In case wastewater generation was expected to increase substantially (i.e. house connections), provision
was made for appropriate household sanitation facilities. By ensuring the provision of safe potable water
from public taps less than 500 meters away from the home of beneficiaries, the project responded to a key
priority expressed by rural women. Provision was made to include at least one woman in each SMT, to
ensure women participation in the project and facilitate hygiene education.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         The assessment of project outcome and outputs focuses on the six provinces supported by the
Bank, the only provinces where the project is completed. In the provinces supported by AFD, the project
started in 1997 and most of the works are now completed. Support from KfW, started in 1999, is expected
to extend until 2004. the credit agreement with JBIC was approved in 2000 and construction works are
only now starting. Hence, the assessment of the parallel financiers projects is not feasible at this point.

         Achievement of the project objectives is satisfactory as access to safe drinking water, health and
school attendance have all improved substantially in the project area.

         At the national level, DGH estimates that access to safe water supply in rural areas rose from 20%
in 1994 (about 2.6 million people) to about 50% by the end of 2002 (approximately 6.4 million people). In



                                                      - 4 -

the six provinces supported by the Bank, access rates have increased substantially, they average 50%.
However, the current access rate is probably slightly over-estimated, as it assumes that the entire
population benefitting from the PAGER program since 1995 has currently access to safe drinking water,
without taking into account systems failure.

         In the six provinces, reported cases of diarrhea among young children in rural areas went down by
24% from 1995 to 2000. No case of cholera was reported in recent years and the incidence of other
waterborne diseases (typhoid, viral hepatitis) dropped significantly. While this is also the result of other
programs in the health sector, the supply of safe drinking water was a contributing factor. The decrease in
the incidence of diarrhea among young children is, however, below the appraisal target (decrease of 50%
one year after project completion). Although this target seems unrealistically high, particularly if applied
to average figures at provincial level, greater improvements in health could have been achieved if the
hygiene education and water quality measures foreseen at appraisal had been better implemented.

         Primary school attendance in the six provinces financed by the Bank went up from an average of
42% in 1997/98 to 58% in 2001/02. Specifically for girls, it went up from 30% to 51%. The project had a
considerable social impact on young girls and women. Evaluations of the PAGER carried out in 2000 and
2001 found that women are highly satisfied with the quantity and quality of water supplied by the project.
Safe water is now available in all seasons, and the time spent fetching water by women and young girls was
reduced by 50% to 90%. Women are now able to devote more time to other activities such as child rearing,
agricultural production or even literacy classes. Increase in schooling, particularly of girls, can be
attributed, at least in part to the fact that girls spend less time fetching water.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         Achievement of outputs is rated satisfactory for all components.

A. Rural Water Supply (PAD: US$ 10.5 million/ 82% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 19.7 million/ 93%
of project costs). This component is rated satisfactory. The project improved access to safe drinking water
for about 304,000 people by constructing or rehabilitating 284 RWS systems at a cost of US$ 19.7 million.
This is more than twice the appraisal targets, namely 134,000 people and 144 RWS systems at a cost of
US$ 10.5 million, reflecting the increased amount of government and beneficiaries contributions to the
project (see pararaph 5.4).

         The demand for house connections (HC) turned out substantially higher than expected. A total of
122 RWS systems (43%) were equipped with HC, serving 49% of the beneficiaries. The share of systems
equipped with HC would have been even higher if the choice of service level had been left to the
beneficiaries throughout the project area.

         In general, eligibility criteria for project selection were met. Cost-sharing arrangements and per
capita investment ceilings were respected most of the times. The financial contribution of beneficiaries
(WUA and CR) amounted to an average of 22.5% of total investments costs in RWS, as compared with a
minimum of 20% required. The average cost of RWS schemes was US$65 per capita, as compared with
the ceiling of US$90. However, the initial full quality control of the water resource (i.e. bacteriological,
physical and chemical analyses) was not always carried out.

         Quality of works and equipment was generally good. There were some deficiencies however: (i) in
some cases, when extensions for HC were left to the beneficiaries, the development of the distribution
system was often chaotic and inefficient; and (ii) in-kind beneficiary contribution was sometimes of poor



                                                         - 5 -

quality (i.e. PF were not always well designed or constructed).

B. Rural Sanitation (PAD: US$ 1.1 million/ 9% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 1.0 million/ 5% of project
costs). This component is rated satisfactory as : (i) it was reported that a total of 9,614 household latrines
and 24 block latrines were constructed under the project, slightly exceeding appraisal targets (8,900
household latrines and 4 block latrines); and (ii) in general, spot checks by supervision missions revealed
that the prerequisite of having adequate sanitation before installing HC was followed quite well. However,
little information is available on the implementation of the sanitation component, as its financing was left to
the beneficiaries (households for individual latrines, CR for block latrines).

C. Local Institutional Strengthening (PAD: US$ 1.0 million/ 8% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 0.4
million/ 2% of project costs). This component is rated satisfactory. Indeed, SMTs ensured user
participation in project design, investment and management of water schemes. They helped beneficiaries
establish a legally registered WUA for each of the schemes rehabilitated/constructed, and all WUA
formally committed to take over O&M of the schemes through a tripartite agreement between DGH/Rural
communities ("commune rurale") and the WUA. As expected in the PAD, this has improved the
sustainability and use of RWS schemes in the project area.

However, improvements in sustainability and use could have been even higher with proper support from
SMTs (see section 6.1). Project expenditures for the creation and operation of the SMTs in charge of the
participatory approach and guarantor of project sustainability was only 44% of the appraisal estimate,
whereas twice the expected number of RWS systems were built and WUA established. In particular :

· Only one SMT was set up in each province against two originally planned starting Year 3 and their time
was not entirely allocated to the project;
· The SMT often lacked the means to function efficiently (i.e. vehicle, per diem);
· Training of SMT was limited to social mobilization. Training on O&M, financial management, and
hygiene were generally not provided.

          In practice, SMT concentrated on getting construction underway, and provided little support to
WUA once the schemes were operational. As a result, each scheme is managed by a WUA, but where
social capital is weak, these associations are fragile and need prolonged support from SMTs until they can
manage the RWS systems on their own. In particular, SMT usually did not receive help to set-up their
tarification. The price of water usually covers only operational expenditures (staff and consumables) and
not replacement costs, as was expected at appraisal.

          In addition, only one SMT out of six had successfully retained a female member (only for about
two years as long as UNDP grant funds was available), and there was therefore little direct participation of
women in project design and management.

          Collaboration with the MOH was weak and activities under its responsibility (monitoring of water
quality and sanitary conditions of water points and hygiene education) were only partially undertaken.

D. Central and Provincial Support (PAD: US$ 0.1 million/ 1% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 0.1
million/ less than 0.5% of project costs). This component was implemented satisfactorily and entirely
through Government funds.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:




                                                      - 6 -

         At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated at 15% based on a target
population of the 25% of the most underprivileged cases, corresponding to a NPV of US$3.6 million. The
most underprivileged cases correspond to the percentiles of population who had the highest costs of water
supply before the project, and hence the highest willingness to pay (WTP). It was estimated in the project
appraisal document (PAD) that an EIRR of 10% and NPV zero could be reached if the project focussed on
the 40% most under-privileged population.

         As the actual number of RWS systems and of beneficiaries was about twice the appraisal estimate,
the revised economic analysis is based on the 50% most underprivileged cases. The revised estimate of the
EIRR is 22%, corresponding to a NPV of US$16.8 million. Two main reasons explain this difference with
appraisal: (i) the demand for HC was much higher than expected, resulting in higher benefits (increase in
water consumption and time savings in water supply); and (ii) the average investment cost in RWS systems
(US$65/person) was substantially below the appraisal estimate (US$78/person). Project implementation
focused on the most easily accessible water resources, and hence the least-costs systems. Further details
are given in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No financial rate of return was estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The project's institutional development impact was substantial:

· The project introduced an innovative, community-based and participatory approach that was endorsed
by all stakeholders, and was extended to all RWS projects country-wide;
· This innovative approach has leveraged about thirty-fold of the Bank's investment and continues to
attract many financiers ("Fonds Hassan II", "Fonds sécheresse", grants and loans from bilateral aids and
NGOs);
· Before the project, the concept of cost recovery in RWS was largely unknown in Morocco. Today,
beneficiaries contribute a significant share of investments costs and they are organized in WUA to take full
responsibility for O&M;
· The project contributed to restore confidence between government services (DGH) and the rural
population, through clear and transparent contractual relationships between the two parties;
· The participatory approach contributed to strengthening social cohesion and fostering the emergence of
other community-based activities;
· The project helped "deconcentrate" RWS development - from central decision-making to provincial
investment decisions, based on demand of population.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The recurring droughts faced by Morocco throughout the 1990s contributed to increase the
commitment of both the Government and beneficiaries to project implementation. The Government was
concerned by rural migration to urban areas and mobilized additional funds to further expand access to safe
water in rural areas. As water from traditional sources was becoming increasingly scarce, local
communities were keen to participate in the project.




                                                      - 7 -

         The provision of financial support to RWS from a large number of donors ­ including not only
those who had jointly appraised the project with the Bank (AFD, KfW, JBIC), but also a variety of
bilateral donors (EU, Luxemburg, Belgium, Italy, China, Spain, UNDP, UNICEF, CRS and other NGOs)
­ enabled the application of the "PAGER approach" throughout the country and increased access from
14% to 50% between 1994 and 2002.

         In some areas, the provision of safe RWS was however hindered by the lack of easily accessible
water resources and lack of social cohesion (El Jadida, Safi). In these areas, further increases in the access
rate to safe drinking water will only be possible if new technologies (i.e. multi-village systems) and new
management models are considered. This should be taken into account in future projects.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         Contributions to project investments from the national budget (see section 5.4) was significantly
higher than expected at appraisal, which helped exceed the physical targets of the project. However, the
Government did not allocate enough funds to support and train WUA (i.e. insufficient number of SMTs,
inadequate compensation and incomplete training, lack of female member in SMTs) until they are able to
manage their RWS systems on their own, threatening the sustainability of investments. Weak
inter-ministerial coordination and cooperation also translated into insufficient collaboration with the
Ministry of Health for water quality control and hygiene education.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The SMT received initial training in the project's participatory approach and applied its basic
principles. However, the pressure to meet physical targets tended to prevail. As a result, beneficiaries were
not always sufficiently informed and/or consulted on technical choices, and the WUA were insufficiently
trained to manage RWS systems. Attention to the sanitation component could have been stronger. At the
beginning of the project, the eligibility criteria for HC were not always enforced.

         The DGH was strongly committed to the project, which enabled project implementation to proceed
on schedule after an initial delay in the Bank loan effectiveness The relationships that they established with
project beneficiaries contributed to restoring confidence of the rural population in government services.
However, there were some deficiencies in initial quality control of the water resources. Aside from the data
collected during the project mid-term review, there was a lack of systematic monitoring of the performance
of completed RWS systems and WUA and of the sanitation component, which may have slowed down the
adoption of corrective measures.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         Effectiveness of the Bank loan was delayed by about a year, mainly due to the time needed to
produce a Project Implementation Manual ("Guide PAGER") satisfactory to all parallel financiers.
Thereafter, progress in implementation was in line with original estimates and the Bank loan was fully
disbursed in May 2002 and closed in December 2002 after a one-year extension. The extension was also
due to the fact that the project was implemented by one rather than two executing agencies at government's
request.

         At completion in the six provinces financed by the Bank, the project cost was about US$ 21.2
million against US$ 12.7 million anticipated at appraisal. This difference is mainly due to the fact that the
Bank loan was estimated in the PAD at around 80% of the total project costs. In reality, taking into



                                                       - 8 -

account the beneficiaries' contribution (20-25% for RWS systems) and the Bank financing rate of RWS
contracts (80%), the Bank loan only financed around 60% of the investments in rural water supply. The
Bank did not participate in financing of the latest RWS contracts, as the loan had been fully disbursed.
The sanitation component was financed entirely by the beneficiaries, while local institutional strengthening
and central/ provincial support were financed by the Government (including a small contribution from
UNDP - about US$ 1 million - for local institutional strengthening). In the end, the Bank's contribution
amounted to 47% of project costs. Physical outputs substantially exceeded the appraisal estimates, and the
difference was met by contributions from the beneficiaries and the Government, which amounted
respectively to 679% and 305% of the PAD estimates.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Project sustainability is rated as likely if adequate support/training is provided to WUA until they
are ready to manage the water scheme on their own.

         User participation in project design, investment and management of water points led to an
improvement of the sustainability of water services in rural areas. However, sustainability could have been
better achieved if investments in "social capital" (SMT) had been adequate (see section 4.2. "local
institutional strengthening"). The government did not use funds for social capital from the PAGER
investment budget, because it considered these costs as running expenses that should be paid for by grants.
According to DGH, and depending on the region, about 10% to 30% of the schemes built under the
PAGER are not operational.

         The lack of investment in "social capital" was an impediment to systematically following the
demand-driven, participatory approach of the project. SMT concentrated on getting construction
underway, and provided very little support to WUA once the schemes were operational. WUA were set up
for all RWS systems, and they all have agreed to assume full responsibility for O&M. In some cases,
WUA are successful without support. In other areas, especially where social cohesion is limited, WUA are
fragile and their management skills are weak. They would need more continuous support from SMTs.
This would enhance considerably sustainability of the RWS systems.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         The Government recently reaffirmed its intention to pursue the implementation of the PAGER,
raising the target from 80% access rate by 2010 to 92% by 2007 and announced that the National Potable
Water Authority (ONEP) would be in charge of all RWS activities as of January 2004. This transfer will
have to be accompanied by adequate measures to ensure continued support to the WUA/schemes that were
set-up by DGH. In some provinces where readily available water resources are scarce and social cohesion
is weak, the PAGER approach successfully adopted under the project - based on a local source of water
and a simple RWS system managed by a WUA - is reaching its limits. In these provinces, further
improvements to the access rates will only be possible if new technologies and management models are
introduced. This should be considered in future projects.

         The PAGER is expected to continue to benefit from intensive donor support. ONEP has asked the
Bank for support in its new task of taking up RWS. A possible continuation of Bank support would help.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                        - 9 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         The Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project was
highly satisfactory. The project supported the shift in Government's priorities towards rural areas and was
consistent with the Bank's CAS. The project was prepared by the FAO Investment Center (under the
World Bank Cooperative Program) in collaboration with the Government. The Bank, together with the
FAO/IC, was instrumental in scaling-up successful pilot projects and convincing the Government to adopt
a full scale demand-driven and participatory approach to RWS. This approach was clearly defined and it
was extended to all RWS projects in Morocco. As a result, the relatively small Bank loan leveraged
considerable additional support from other donors, which was also facilitated by a joint appraisal with
several parallel financiers. The project risks and institutional constraints were well recognized during
preparation and appraisal. Initial technical assistance in participatory processes, as including gender
sensitivity training, was provided during the preparation phase.


7.2 Supervision:

         Bank supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions identified at an early stage the main
weaknesses in project implementation. They made repeated attempts to obtain remedial measures in
particular for allocation of funds to the SMT, including visits to the Ministry of Finance and official letters
with concrete suggestions to the Government, but without success. Throughout implementation, the Bank
team maintained a constructive relationship with the Government and the implementing agency. It also
maintained close contacts and synergy with parallel financiers. A mid-term review was conducted in 2001
and its results were discussed in a workshop with about 300 participation of the Government and PAGER
financiers. Supervision reports realistically rated the project's performance in terms of achievement of its
development objective and physical implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's performance in preparation was highly satisfactory. The Government and
implementing agencies participated actively in project preparation. Ownership of the project concept and
approach by the Government is reflected in the fact that this approach was subsequently applied to all
RWS investments at the national level.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The Borrower's performance in implementation was satisfactory. The Government maintained its
commitment throughout project implementation. Its financial contribution to physical investments was
substantially higher than originally envisaged. However, insufficient funding of complementary
investments in social capital hindered progress in achieving sustainability (see section 5.2). Adequate
coordination with the MOH was not achieved. The quality of the progress reports was not very good and
they were often transmitted late to the Bank.

7.6 Implementing Agency:



                                                     - 10 -

         The performance of the DGH as the project's main implementing and coordinating agency, and of
the DPE in charge of decentralized project implementation, was satisfactory. They were committed to the
project, and they established good relationships with the beneficiaries. They applied the basic principles of
the project's participatory approach as much as the lack of budget allocated to social capital could allow.
However, the pressure to meet physical targets tended to prevail (see section 5.3).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

         The following are the main lessons learned from project design and implementation:

l The demand-responsive and community-based approach to service provision introduced by the project
    ensures the sustainability of water schemes in rural areas provided that : (i) the system is simple to
    operate and maintain (simple technology covering a limited number of people and villages), (ii) the
    social fabric is cohesive among beneficiaries; and (iii) the WUA/local organizations receive sufficient
    training and support during the operational phase until they are capable of managing the scheme both
    technically and financially. This approach requires that the government be committed to invest a
    significant amount of resources in social capital building, i.e. SMT should be created of adequate
    numbers, well trained in both social mobilization, O&M of the schemes including financial
    management, sanitation and hygiene education, provided with sufficient means to operate (vehicle, per
    diem etc.) and include at least one female member.

l Different water supply technologies and management models need to be considered according to local
    conditions. The approach successfully adopted under the project ­ based on a local source of
    groundwater and a simple RWS system serving and managed by a WUA ­ is reaching its limits. This
    model is appropriate for small communities, with an easily accessible water resource, and where social
    cohesion is strong. Where easily accessible groundwater is scarce, more complex RWS systems and
    multi-village management models will need to be considered. This will be addressed under ONEP
    leadership and possibly Bank assistance.

l To reap the full health benefits of RWS schemes, future RWS projects in Morocco should ensure that
    the MOH has the means to fulfill its responsibilities vis-à-vis water quality (chemical and
    bacteriological test of drinking water, sanitary conditions of water points) and hygiene education.

l Good donor coordination from project design to completion, (i) ensured that the approach followed to
    improve the access to safe water in rural areas was the same throughout the country; (ii) allowed to
    allocate considerable resources to the sector; and (iii) help refined project design and implementation by
    sharing views and experiences.

l Gender. Project benefits for women and girls were high (i.e. time savings and less physical burden
    fetching water, increase school attendance of rural girls). But, they could have been even higher if
    more rigorous attempts to achieve direct participation of women in project implementation (i.e. in the
    SMT and WUA) were carried out. This should be one of the key foci in future projects.

9. Partner Comments



                                                     - 11 -

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        DGH completed its own evaluation report which is attached in annex 8, and provided comments on
earlier draft of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:

        There was no cofinanciers, but three parallel financiers who jointly appraised the project with the
Bank. These financiers largely share the Bank's assessment of the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        NA

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Additional rural population served with safe  About 150,000 people will have access to      The percentage of rural population served by
water under the national rural water program safe water once the project is completed.      public water systems has gone up from 20%
(PAGER)                                                                                     in 1994 (about 2.6 million people) to 50% by
                                                                                            end 2002 (about 6.4 million people)
Diarrheal disease rates in young children     to be reduced by 50% within one year of       In the project area (Bank financed provinces),
(less than 5 yrs. old)                        project completion                            reported cases of diarrheal diseases in young
                                                                                            children (up to age 5) have gone down by
                                                                                            24% from 1995 to 2000
Reduce the burden of girls who carry water in to achieve enrollment target of 46% and       In the project area (Bank financed provinces),
rural areas and improve primary school        retention rate of 65% by FY2001 in selected   primary school attendance has gone up from
attendance                                    rural provinces                               42% in 1997/98 to 58% in 2001/02 (for girls,
                                                                                            from 30% to 51%), with a retention rate over
                                                                                            five years of 61% (57% for girls)




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of public water points constructed or 144 public water points                        284 public water points
rehabilitated
Number of latrines constructed                8,900 household latrines and 4 block latrines 9,614 household latrines and 24 block
                                              for schools                                   latrines
Number of people with access to safe water    134,000 additional people                     304,000 additional people
and adequate sanitation


1End of project




                                                                 - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Rural Water Supply                                          10.50           19.70              188
Rural Sanitation                                             1.10             1.00              90
Local Institutional Strengthening                            1.00             0.40              44
Central and Provincial Support                               0.10             0.10              86

Total Baseline Cost                                         12.70           21.20
                          Total Project Costs               12.70           21.20
                    Total Financing Required                12.70           21.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           11.30         0.00          0.30         11.60
                                   (0.00)          (9.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (9.00)
2. Goods                            0.60            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.60
                                   (0.50)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.50          0.00         0.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.60           11.30         0.50          0.30         12.70
                                   (0.50)          (9.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)      (10.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           12.40        0.00           5.40        17.80
                                   (0.00)         (8.40)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (8.40)
2. Goods                            0.00           2.70         0.00           0.00        2.70
                                   (0.00)         (1.60)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         0.00           0.50        0.50
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00         0.00           0.03        0.03
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)


                                                - 14 -

   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00              15.10              0.00             5.93             21.03
                                          (0.00)            (10.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Rural Water Supply             8.40         1.60         0.50       10.00         5.30       4.40       119.0    331.3    880.0
Rural Sanitation               0.60         0.20         0.30                                1.00        0.0      0.0     333.3
Local Institutional            0.90         0.10                                  0.40                   0.0     400.0
Strengthening
Central and Provincial         0.10                                               0.10                   0.0
Support




                                                          - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Present value of flows (in US$ million equivalent, constant 2002 prices)
                                              Economic Analysis                         Financial Analysis
                                            Appraisal     Latest Estimates         Appraisal      Latest Estimates
Benefits                                       -                37.8
Costs                                          -                21.0
NPV at a 10% discount rate                    3.6               16.8             not applicable
IRR                                          15%                22%              not applicable
Methodology

The estimates of NPV and EIRR have been revised following the methodology used in the PAD. Revised
estimates are based on actual costs and an updated projection of benefits reflecting project implementation.
The analysis is done in constant 2002 prices over a thirty-year period (expected life of the major project
components ­ civil works and pipes). A standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 is applied to local costs
and the opportunity cost of capital is estimated at 10%.

The economic value of the project investment costs is derived from actual (financial) project costs, by
excluding taxes and applying the SCF on local costs. All project investment costs are included in the
analysis. Recurrent costs include: (i) costs of additional support to the WUA for 2-3 years after project
completion in order to develop their capability for O&M (maintenance of equipment, setting-up of
appropriate tariff structures), as project implementation has demonstrated the need to strengthen and extend
support from the MPT during the operational phase of the RWS schemes; and (ii) costs of O&M of RWS
schemes constructed or rehabilitated under the project, estimated on the basis of 8% of corresponding
investment costs.

Quantifiable benefits correspond to the economic value of: (i) water accessibility (reduction in water
transport costs, as a result of more accessible supply at shorter distance from home); and (ii) water security
(as a result of improved reliability of water supply, beneficiaries no longer need to store or purchase water
during periods of deficit or drought). The PAD also included a quantification of direct health benefits,
calculated on the basis of the cost of medication saved due to reduced incidence of diarrheal diseases
among children. However, this accounted only for a small part of the project health benefits, most of which
are not quantifiable, and the sensitivity analysis showed that it had virtually no incidence on the ERR and
NPV (if quantifiable health benefits would fall to zero, or double, the ERR and NPV would change only
marginally). Therefore, quantifiable health benefits are not taken into account in the revised economic
analysis.

The economic value of water supplied from the RWS systems constructed or rehabilitated under the project
is estimated on the basis of the "willingness to pay (WTP)" of beneficiaries, corresponding to the economic
costs of water supply before/ without the project. For public fountains, an amount corresponding to the
time that still needs to be spent to fetch water from the project facilities is deducted. The value of water
accessibility takes into account the labor costs involved in fetching water, depending on the distance of
water points from households. The cost or value associated with the time spent in fetching water is
estimated on the basis of the median annual cash income in rural areas, the legal minimum agricultural
daily wage, and the probability of access to paid employment in rural areas. For public fountains at a short
distance from home, the economic value (opportunity cost) of time spent fetching water is estimated at DH
58 (about US$5.9) per household and per month (2002 prices). The value of water security is based on the
costs of: (i) water purchases from reservoirs or motorized transporters, in case of water shortfall or



                                                     - 16 -

drought; and (ii) water storage in private facilities. Without the project, the weighted average cost of water
security is estimated at DH 20 (about US$2.0) per household and per month.

The situation before/ without project is assessed on the basis of data from the preparation/ appraisal reports
on: (i) existing types of water supply in rural areas (i.e. water points, surface water, private wells and
cisterns, public fountains, house connections, etc.); (ii) proportion of rural households for each type; and
(iii) distribution of distances from water supply sources and probability of risks of temporary shortage or
drought. The costs of water transport and security vary accordingly and the rural population is classified in
percentiles from the "worst-off" to the "best-off" cases. The worst-off cases are those who have the highest
sum of quantified values of (i) time spent to fetch water (distance from water point), and (ii) investments
required and/or water price paid to private vendors to assure water security. The opportunity cost of water,
and hence the WTP, is highest for the worst-off cases. Assuming that everything else is equal ­ in
particular the investment costs in RWS systems ­, targeting the worst-off cases also results in the highest
ERR.

Results

At appraisal, the economic rate of return was estimated at 15% based on a target population of the 25%
worst-off cases, corresponding to a NPV of US$ 3.6 million in the six project provinces financed by the
Bank. Sensitivity and switching value analyses showed that an ERR of 10% and NPV zero would be
reached, if the project would focus on the 40% worst-off population.

The actual number of RWS systems constructed or rehabilitated under the project, as well as the number of
beneficiaries, are about twice the appraisal estimates. The revised economic analysis is therefore based on
the 50% worst-off cases. Based on this assumption, the revised estimate of the ERR is 22%, corresponding
to a NPV of US$ 16.8 million. These favorable results, in comparison with appraisal estimates, are
explained mainly by two reasons:

      (i)    The demand for house connections was much higher than expected at appraisal. Economic
             analysis in the PAD does not take into account the additional costs and benefits of house
             connections, and it is based on an average consumption of water from the project facilities of 15
             liters/person/day. In the revised analysis, the extra costs of individual house connections are
             included in the beneficiaries' contribution to investment costs. Average water consumption is
             estimated at 15.7 liters/person/day for public fountains and 19.7 liters/person/day for individual
             house connections, based on the results of a mid-term evaluation of the PAGER program
             (CEFEB/AFD, November 2000). Additional benefits from individual house connections (time
             savings in fetching water) are also taken into account in the revised analysis. Without the
             benefits of individual house connections ­ everything else being equal ­ the revised ERR would
             have been reduced to 8% (due to reduced water consumption and time spent to fetch water from
             public fountains).

      (ii)   The average investment cost in RWS systems (US$65 per person) was substantially below the
             appraisal estimate (US$78 per person). Project implementation focused on the most easily
             accessible water resources, and hence the least-costs systems. This also reflects the ceiling on
             investment costs per beneficiary that was set at appraisal. With an investment cost per person in
             RWS systems equivalent to the appraisal estimate (i.e. 20% higher than the actual average
             cost), the revised ERR would have been reduced to 18%.

The results of the revised economic analysis highlight the importance of taking into account the demand for
individual house connections. Also, as the most easily accessible sources of water have now been exploited,


                                                       - 17 -

further expansion of RWS systems will be more costly than was the case under the project, and ceilings on
investment costs per capita will need to be revised.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Preparation               2     Economist, civil engineer
               Januray 1996
               Pre-appraisal             7     TTL, Irrigation Engineer, Rural
                 July 1996                     water specialist, Economist,
                                               Sociologist, Water resources
                                               specialist, budget analyst

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Appraisal                 4     TTL, Rural water specialist,
                Feb. 1997                      Economist, sociologist


 Supervision

               03/25/1998                 2    PR. OPERATIONS OFFICER                 S               S
                                               (1); SR. WATER RESOURCES
                                               SP (1)
               10/23/1998                 2    PRIN. OPER. OFF./TTL (1); SR.          S               S
                                               WATER RES. SPEC. (1)
               03/04/1999                 3    PRIN. OPERATIONS OFF. (1);             S               S
                                               WATER RESOURCE SPEC. (1);
                                               LOCAL SOCIOLOGIST (1)
               11/01/1999                 2    PRIN. OPERATIONS OFF. (1);             S               S
                                               SENIOR. WATER RES. SP. (1)
               07/01/2000                 3    SR. WATER SPEC. (1);                   S               S
                                               SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                               EVALUATION (1)
               02/01/2001                 3    SR WATER SPECIALIST (1);               S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); LOCAL
                                               SOCIOLOGIST (1)
               02/09/2002                 4    TTL (1); WATER RES/ECO (1);            S               S
                                               SOCIOLOGIST (1); WBI (1)


 ICR
               03/03/2003                2     TTL (1); Economist (1)                 S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                121                              436
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       56                             200
  Supervision                                 72                             258



                                               - 19 -

ICR       19          69
Total    267         963




           - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, October 31, 1997 (Report No. 17005-MOR)
2. Rapport de Préparation, FAO/Centre d'Investissement, 11 juin 1996
3. Guide de l'Animateur PAGER
4. Evaluation à mi-parcours du PAGER, CEFEB/AFD, Novembre 2000
5. Evaluation à mi-parcours des projets PAGER financés par la Banque Mondiale, SCET-Maroc, 2001
6. Programme PAGER/ Volet DGH : Mission d'Evaluation de la KfW, aide-mémoire, Octobre 2001
7. Concours de l'AFD en appui au programme du PAGER, Agence AFD Maroc, 19 décembre 2002
8. Supervision mission aide-mémoires




                                              - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Evaluation Report

INTRODUCTION

         Le programme d'approvisionnement groupé en eau potable des populations rurales (PAGER) mis en place
par le Gouvernement à partir de 1995 pour résoudre les problèmes d'alimentation en eau potable du monde rural, a
amélioré sensiblement le taux d'accès à l'eau potable des populations rurales, qui est passé de 14% avant 1994 à
50% actuellement, mais un grand effort reste encore à faire pour généraliser l'accès à l'eau potable des populations
rurales.

         Compte tenu des ressources financières limitées des populations et des communes rurales, l'Etat s'est
engagé à mobiliser l'essentiel des moyens de financement :

· Par le budget de l'Etat en inscrivant 250 millions de DH par an comme contribution au financement du
PAGERqui nécessite une enveloppe globale de 10 milliards de DH pour atteindre un taux de desserte de 90% à
l'horizon 2007.

· En mobilisant les financements extérieurs ; A cet effet trois table rondes de bailleurs de fonds ont été organisées
respectivement à Rabat, New York et Rome en 1995, 1996 et 1997, lesquelles ont permis d'obtenir des
engagements importants de la plupart des bailleurs de fonds. Plus de 2 milliards de Dirhams de financements
extérieurs ont ainsi pu être mobilisés.

         C'est dans ce cadre que la contribution de la BIRD a été inscrite pour aider à accélérer le rythme de
réalisation du PAGER.

        L'évaluation présentée dans ce rapport concerne les actions réalisées dans le cadre du projet MOR 4254
financé par un prêt de la Banque Mondiale.

     Consistance du Programme

Les projets financés en partie par la Banque Mondiale (BIRD) au titre du prêt MOR 4254 consiste en 4 principaux
volets :

·         Adduction d'eau potable.
·         Assainissement rural.
·         Renforcement des institutions locales.
·         Soutien aux administrations centrales et provinciales ( DGH/DPE)

         Le coût global prévu par le programme est de l'ordre de 541,5 millions DH (57 millions $US). Les coûts
partiels prévus pour chaque composante sont donnés dans le tableau suivant :

                                                      Tableau 1
           Composantes                           Coût global                          Coût global
                                             (million de $US)                      (Millions de DH)
Adduction en eau potable                             46,7                                443,65
Assainissement                                       5,1                                 48,45
Renforcement institutionnel                          4,6                                  43,7
Soutien central                                      0,6                                  5,7
               Total                                 57                                  541,5

         La part prévue des différents bailleurs de fonds et des bénéficiaires dans ce programme est détaillée dans le
tableau suivant:



                                                        - 24 -

                                                      Tableau 2
                   Bailleurs de fonds              Part de financement                  Part de financement
                                                     (million de $US)                     (Million de DH)
          Gouvernement/bénéficiaires                         12                                 114
         BIRD                                                10                              95
         KFW                                                 10                              95
         AFD (France)                                        15                             142,5
         OECF (Japon)                                        10                              95
                         TOTAL                               57                             541,5
         * Taux de change utilisé dans le rapport est de 1 $US = 9,5 DH

I- PROJETS FINANCES PAR LA BIRD

I-1- Les composantes du projet BIRD
                                                      Tableau 3
                      Composantes                                     Coût global ( Millions de DH)
Adduction en eau potable                                                           98,59
Assainissement                                                                     10,77
Renforcement institutionnel                                                         9,71
Soutien central                                                                     1,27
                           Total                                                  120,33

I-2- Objectifs et conception du projet

         Les projets financés par la BIRD ont visé les principaux objectifs suivants :
· L'assistance à l'exécution du programme PAGER de manière à accélérer la cadence de l'AEP,
· Amélioration de l'état de santé et le bien-être de la population rurale,
· Alléger la charge des enfants et particulièrement des filles, qui traditionnellement transportent de l'eau salubre
sur de longues distances dans les zones rurales, ce qui les empêche d'aller à l'école.

         Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les discussions menées entre la BIRD et le Gouvernement marocain ont été
axées sur le choix de composantes relatives essentiellement à la réalisation de projets d'AEP.

I-3- Provinces ciblées et populations concernées

         Le projet a été limité à des provinces déshéritées du Maroc et comportant une forte proportion de
population rurale. Six provinces ont été concernées à savoir Tata, Ouarzazate, Zagora, Safi, El Jadida et Sidi
kacem. Les données de la province de Zagora sont incluses dans celles d'Ouarzazate.

II- PREVISIONS ET REALISATIONS DES PROJETS DE LA BIRD

II-1- Analyse par composante

Composante n°1:Adduction en eau potable des populations rurales .

         Dans cette composante, la DGH par l'intermédiaire de ses services extérieurs, a réalisé les projets
d'installation ou réhabilitation d'adductions en eau potable dans des localités dont la population se situe entre 250
et 3500 personnes. Initialement, l'ONEP devrait se concentrer sur les centres les plus peuplés (plus de 2.000
habitants) et sur les villages proches des conduites existantes de l'ONEP.

         Cette composante a été exécutée selon la démarche participative en associant la population bénéficiaire



                                                         - 25 -

    depuis la conception des projets jusqu'à l'exécution, l'exploitation et la maintenance des systèmes à réaliser.

             Les investissements en eau ont atteint 192.812.230,71 DH au profit de 304.200 habitants environ, soit un
    coût d'investissement moyen par habitant de 634 DH. Ce coût moyen a atteint 1600 DH (en cas de système à
    branchement individuel (BI)). Le nombre total des systèmes construits s'élève à 284 (dont 9 réhabilités).

             La création et la réhabilitation des systèmes d'AEP pour les six provinces a nécessité un montant global
    de 192.812.230,71 DH, soit 195% du montant prévu pour cette composante qui est de 98.590.000,00 DH. Cette
    différence supportée par le budget de l'Etat a permis d'augmenter le nombre de systèmes réalisés (284 SAEP
    réalisés contre 143 SAEP prévus).

             La répartition des coûts d'investissement en AEP pour les 6 provinces bénéficiaires est donnée dans le
    tableau suivant.

                                                          Tableau 4
                                                                       Réalisé (DH)
          Composante AEP             Tata                Safi            El Jadida        Ouarzazate       Sidi Kacem

Financement BIRD (Travaux)        11.980.858,        14.056.162         22.135.929        32.964.191       16.656.112
Finan. Gouv. (Trav.+ Etudes)      7.858.541,          4.427.201          7.633.121        17.750.806       13.963.076
   Finan. Béné. Pop. + C.R.)       7.008.400          2.741.735         12.858.700        13.802.505        6.974888
      TOTAL                                                            192.812.230

    La participation des différents intervenants dans la composante eau potable est donnée dans le tableau suivant :

                                                          Tableau 5
                Financement                             Montant                               Pourcentage
    BIRD                                               97.793.254                                 50,7
    Gouvernement                                       51.632.747                                26,8
    Bénéficiaires (Pop. + C.R.)                        43.386.228                                22,5
                    Total                              192.812.230                                100

    Les investissements en AEP comprennent à la fois les études d'APD, les travaux de génie civil, les équipements en
    pompes et les puits et forages d'eau. Le tableau suivant illustre la part de chaque type d'opération.

                                                          Tableau 6
               Opérations                                       Coût
    Etudes                                                    2.348.081
    Génie civil                                             145.345.892
    Equipement                                               26.289.244
    Forages et Puits                                         18.829.011
                  Total                                     192.812.230
    N.B : Les travaux de forage ont concerné les seules provinces de sidi kacem, Safi et El Jadida et ont été exécutés
    par les DRH de Sebou et de Tensift.

             Le coût global de la composante adduction d'eau potable est de 192.812.230 DH soit 93% du coût global
    du projet (toutes composantes confondues).

             Le système d'approvisionnement le moins coûteux au niveau du présent projet est le SAEP réhabilité (500
    Dh/habitant). le SAEP le plus coûteux est celui avec BI (1600 DH/Habitant).

             On notera qu'avant la réalisation du projet, la disposition à payer (D.A.P.) par la population pour acquérir




                                                            - 26 -

 de l'eau potable variait entre 20 et 200 DH/m3 (en cas d'approvisionnement par citerne dans les provinces du sud).

           Après le projet, le prix de l'eau a remarquablement baissé, il se situe entre 3 et 10 DH/m3 uniquement.

 Composante n°2 : Assainissement

           Cette composante prévoit la construction de systèmes d'évacuation des eaux usées et des déchets humains
 selon des techniques proportionnées à la demande des familles et à la taille de la population. En effet, et d'après
 une enquête exhaustive réalisée par les EMP des différentes provinces bénéficiaires, il a été constaté que la
 disponibilité en eau salubre au niveau des localités bénéficiaires a engendré un effet positif et incitateur à la
 création de systèmes d'évacuation de déchets humains chez les bénéficiaires notamment pour les localités ayant
 adopté les branchements individuels. On dénombre 3500 latrines familiales au niveau des localités bénéficiaires de
 Ouarzazate et 6114 latrines familiales au niveau des localités bénéficiaires de Tata. On note aussi la création de 24
 blocs de latrines au niveau des centres ruraux bénéficiaires de la province de Tata.

           Le coût moyen de construction d'une latrine familiale est de 1000 Dh, celui d'un bloc le latrines est en
 moyen de 4000 Dh. Le coût global de construction des latrines est de 9.614.000,00 Dh tandis que celui des blocs
 de latrines est de 96.000,00 Dh. Le Coût total de cette composante s'élève à 9.710.000,00 DH, soit 90,5% du coût
 initial prévu.

                                                       Tableau 7
                                  Nombre                Coût moyen (DH/Latrine)            Coût global
OUARZAZATE/ZAGORA
 - Latrines                               3500                         1.000                      3.500.000
TATA
 - Latrines                               6114                         1.000                      6.114.000
 - Blocs de latrines                       24                          4.000                        96.000
           TOTAL                        9.710.000

           Le coût des latrines familiales est couvert par les familles elles mêmes et représente environ 156
 DH/habitant, celui des blocs de latrines est couvert par les Communes Rurales.

 Composante N°3 : Renforcement des institutions locales

           Ce volet concerne l'approche participative réalisée par les équipes mobiles provinciales.
           Ces EMP sont constituées de techniciens en hydraulique villageoise, techniciens en santé et hygiène et des
 animateurs qui sont généralement issus de la zone et qui parlent les dialectes locaux (berbère notamment).

           Le coût de cette composante (avec appui du PNUD) est illustré dans le tableau suivant :

                                                       Tableau 8
                       Désignation                                                    Coût
 Mobilisation des EMP (Salaire + indemnité + frais des                             2.949.925
 transport)
 Frais de formation des EMP                                                         300.000
 Contribution du PNUD (Formation + VTT)                                            1.323.000
 TOTAL                                                                             4.272.925

           Le coût global de la composante renforcement institutionnel est de 4.272.925 DH soit 44% du coût prévu
 pour cette composante, et 2,05% du coût global du projet.

 Composante N° 4 : Renforcement des institutions au niveau central et provincial




                                                          - 27 -

       Cette composante consiste en un appui technique, de suivi et d'évaluation de l'exécution décentralisée du projet.
       L'ensemble de ces composantes devait amener à atteindre les objectifs visé par le projet.

               Ce soutien est réalisé entièrement sur le budget du Gouvernement Marocain. Il comprend le suivi, au
       niveau provincial et central, des travaux et des réalisations des projets AEP et la formation du personnel de la DGH
       pour cette fin. Il comprend aussi une évaluation a mi-Parcours réalisée en 1999 par un bureau d'études national.
       Les coûts afférents à ce soutien sont donnés dans le tableau suivant :

                                                               Tableau 9
                             Désignations                                                   Coût
       Assistance   technique      :   Etude   d'évaluation      à                        745440
       mi-parcours
       Mobilisation et motivation des cadres pour suivi des                               100000
       projets
       TOTAL                                                                              845440

               Le coût global de la composante Soutien central et provincial est de 845440 DH soit 68,5% du coût prévu
       pour cette composante, soit encore 0,4% du coût global réalisé du projet.

       II-2- Analyse globale

               Le coût global de réalisation du projet (toutes composantes confondues) est de 207.640.595,71 DH. Le
       tableau suivant illustre la part prévue et celle réalisée pour chaque composante ainsi que le pourcentage réalisé.

                                                               Tableau 10
             Désignations                 Coût prévu (DH)              Coût réalisé (DH)              % réalisé
       Composante n°1                        98.590.000                   192.812.230                     195
       Composante n°2                        10.735.000                    9.710.000                      90,5
       Composante n°3                        9.690.000                     4.272.925                      44
       Composante n°4                        1.235.000                      845.440                       68,5
       TOTAL                                120.250.000                   207.640.595                     173

               La part de chaque intervenant dans le coût global du projet est donnée dans le tableau suivant :

                                                               Tableau 11
                      TATA                SAFI              EL JADIDA        OUARZAZATE SIDI KACEM               TOTAL
BIRD                     11.980.858        14.056.162          22.135.929       32.964.191        16.656.112       97.793.254
Gouvernement              8.958.629         4.863.289          8.412.209        18.371.039        14.822.944       55.428.112
PNUD                          0                  0                  0                0             1.323.000       1.323.000
Bénéficiaires            13.218.400         2.741.735          12.858.700       17.302.505         6.974.888       53.096.228
Total/Province           34.157.888        21.661.186          43.406.839       68.637.735        39.776.945      207.640.595
TOTAL GLOBAL            207.640.595

               La part en % de chaque intervenant dans le coût global du projet est donnée dans le tableau suivant :

                                                               Tableau 12
                      TATA                SAFI              EL JADIDA        OUARZAZATE SIDI KACEM               TOTAL
  BIRD                      35,07             64,89                51             48,03              41 ,87           48,17
  Gouvernement              26,23             22,45               19,38           26,77              37,27            26,42
  PNUD                        0                  0                  0                0               3,33              0,67
  Bénéficiaires             38,70             12,66               29,62           25,21              17,54            24,74




                                                                  - 28 -

III- EVALUATION ET IMPACTS DU PROJET

III-1- Impacts du projet

1/ Scolarité

          Le projet réalisé a eu un impact positif sur la population bénéficiaire. Les indicateurs de scolarisation des
filles et des garçons ont été nettement améliorés.

          En effet, le taux de scolarisation a augmenté depuis le démarrage du projet de 16% par rapport à l'état
initial. Cette augmentation est observé considérablement pour les fillettes scolarisées (21%).

          Le taux de rétention au niveau des localités bénéficiaires a connu aussi une nette progression (19%) au
niveau de l'enseignement primaire entre les années 97 et 2001.

2/ Santé

          Le projet a eu un impact positif sur la santé des populations bénéficiaires, ceci est dû principalement à
l'installation de nouveaux systèmes d'exhaure et de stockage utilisés dans les projets réalisés. L'impact positif est
dû aussi aux diverses campagnes de sensibilisation et d'information sur les maladies d'origine hydrique et les
méthodes de correction éventuelles.      On a constaté, en effet, que les maladies d'origine hydrique, notamment les
diarrhées, ont eu une tendance à la baisse depuis 1998, puisque l'on assiste à une diminution des cas de diarrhées
de 49% par rapport à l'état d'avant projet. L'évaluation à mi-parcours fait aussi état d'une amélioration au niveau
de l'hygiène corporelle surtout dans les provinces de Tata, Ouarzazate et El Jadida, et on constate que les
populations pensent qu'il faudrait un certain temps pour que des changement de comportement s'opèrent. On
s'attendra, alors, à une amélioration de l'indicateur santé et hygiène corporelle dans le futur.

          L'évaluation à mi-parcours fait aussi état d'un gain considérable de temps pour les femmes, ce qui
permettra de disposer d'un temps supplémentaire pour s'occuper des enfants et exercer des activités génératrices de
revenus.

3/ Assainissement

          Le projet a eu comme impact direct la construction de 9614 latrines familiales, 24 blocs de latrines.
Cependant, il n'a pas eu de construction d'égouts de petite taille et fosses sceptiques communales.

          Une augmentation de la cadence des construction de latrines familiales initiée par le projet suite à
l'amélioration d'hygiène constatée par la population.

4/ Environnement

          Certes, le projet consiste en une amélioration de l'hygiène des populations, seulement, il doit être
accompagné de mesures adéquates d'évacuation des eaux usées. La construction de latrines doit certainement aider
à résoudre ce problème sans pouvoir pallier à l'accroissement des quantités des eaux usées, résultat de
l'accroissement de la consommation (cas les localités à BI). Un effort important devra être donné pour
l'assainissement liquide et solide en milieu rural.

III-2- EVALUATION

1/ Evaluation technique

          L'exécution du projet a été faite en appliquant les méthodes participatives appropriées et les techniques
peu coûteuses adaptées à la demande et à la disposition à payer par les bénéficiaires. Ceci a été facilité par la




                                                         - 29 -

compétence des cadres et des EMP. Ils ont contribué, entre autres à la sensibilisation des communautés pour la
mobilisation des ressources matérielles et financières.

     Les systèmes construits sont de trois types :

-         Le système simple à bornes fontaines (BF) où les équipements et les installations du système occupent un
même site avec une desserte par BF, ce type de système est dominant à Safi et El Jadida.

-         Le système développé à BF où les linéaires des conduites de refoulement et de distribution sont
relativement importants et où la desserte est assurée par BF, ce type de système est dominant essentiellement à Sidi
Kacem.

-         Le système développé à branchement individuel (BI), où le linéaire des conduites de refoulement et de
distribution est relativement important et où la desserte est assurée par des BI. Ce type de système est dominant à
Tata et Ouarzazate.

     Sur les 284 systèmes construits, 277 SAEP sont fonctionnels actuellement, alors que 7 SAEP sont en arrêt de
fonctionnement à cause de pannes ou de conflits au sein de l'association des usagers.

     La totalité des systèmes réalisés mobilisent une eau souterraine (forages, puits), le pompage des eaux est assuré
par des pompes thermiques (204 SAEP), par des pompes électriques (66 SAEP) (réseau électrique ou groupe
électrogène) ou par des pompes solaires (14 SAEP).

     Le stockage d'eau est effectué au niveau :
·         Des réservoirs semi enterrés pour 89 SAEP,
·         Des réservoirs surélevés pour 173 SAEP,
·         Des bâches bornes fontaines pour 22 SAEP;

La capacité de stockage varie entre 15 et 50 m3.
     Les matériaux utilisés pour les conduites de refoulement sont généralement de l'acier galvanisé et rarement le
polyéthylène ou le PVC, tandis que ceux utilisés pour les réseaux de distribution, ils varient de l'acier galvanisé
(terrain rocheux) au polyéthylène ou PVC (terrain non rocheux).

         La desserte est assurée par des BI au niveau de 122 SAEP et par des BF au niveau de 162 SAEP.

     L'étude d'évaluation à mi-parcours réalisée sur un échantillon représentatif de 66 SAEP nous renseigne sur
certaines lacunes rencontrées quant à la vulnérabilité de la ressource à la pollution, la conformité des équipements,
la conformité d'exécution du génie civil et les ouvrages de stockage et aux entretiens des systèmes. Ces lacunes,
minimes soient-elles, auraient pu être évitées si le projet avait été réalisé par une Assistance Technique appropriée.

2/ Evaluation institutionnelle

a-        organisme d'exécution

     La DGH est le principal organisme d'exécution. Elle a exécuté le projet en ayant recours aux Directions
Régionales et Provinciales de l'Equipement, plus particulièrement aux services « eau » de sidi kacem, Ouarzazate
EL Jadida, Safi et Tata et les Directions des Régions Hydrauliques de Sebou et de Tensift. Ces entités ont assuré
l'exécution physique et le suivi financier des projets réalisés. La Direction centrale , a assuré un suivi régulier des
réalisations physiques et des situations des marchés des projets réalisées ( suivi à plein temps par un cadre de la
DGH ). Des rapports trimestriels sur l'état d'avancement du projet ont été envoyés régulièrement à la Banque.

b-        Gestion du projet




                                                         - 30 -

     Les localités bénéficiaires ont été sensibilisées à la création d'associations des usagers (A.U) pour prendre en
relais la gestion , la maintenance et l'entretien des systèmes après leur mise en marche. Chaque AU a désigné un
comité pour assurer le fonctionnement quotidien des ouvrages et la collecte des recettes.

     Le nombre d'A.U créées est de 280 (dont 13 AU déjà créées avant projet). Seulement 23                AU( celles de
sidi kacem ) ont bénéficié d'une formation ayant inclus la prévention et l'entretien des SAEP. La formation
concernant la désinfection des eaux n'a concernée que 3 AU .

          Les autres A.U (celles de Tata, Ouarzazate , Safi et EL Jadida ) n'ont reçu que des formations de courtes
durées lors des installations des équipements.

3/ Evaluation financière :

          a) Efficacité par rapport au coût : Dans le cadre de ce projet , les investissements moyens par habitant
sont de 634 DH pour les nouveaux systèmes, et de 500 DH pour les systèmes réhabilités.

          L'investissement par habitant est élevé au niveau des provinces de Tata et Ouarzazate, ceci est justifié par
la DAP supplémentaires des populations pour s'acquérir des branchements individuels . Le coût d'investissement
est de 1600 DH/ habitant en moyenne.

          b) Evaluation par les bénéficiaires : les résultats physiques du projet nous amènent à dire que les
populations optent le plus souvent pour la création des systèmes d'AEP afin de s'assurer une eau potable ayant la
quantité et la qualité requise. L'intérêt que porte la population aux structures d'assainissement et aux mesures
d'hygiène de l'eau ne cesse de croître. En effet, la disposition à payer pour la construction de latrines est devenue
importante.

          Au niveau de la province de Tata et Ouarzazate, la DAP pour le branchement individuel a atteint le double
par rapport à celle pour des BF. En effet, on remarque que 100 % et 91,5% des foyers des localités bénéficiaires,
respectivement dans les provinces d'Ouarzazate et Tata, bénéficient actuellement de branchements individuels.

IV- PARTICIPATION ET PERENNITE

IV-1- Participation
          Le processus de participation confié par la DGH aux équipes mobiles provinciales              débute par une
évaluation de la demande et de la mobilisation et l'engagement des communautés, ceci est facilité par les passages
réguliers des EMP au niveau des douars afin de maintenir un dialogue sur l'opportunité de s'associer dans la
réalisation d'un projet d'infrastructure rurale en conformité avec les souhaits et les besoins des populations. La
tâche est également facilitée par les formations dispensées à ces équipes sur l'approche participative et sur les
techniques d'hydraulique villageoise.

IV-2- Pérennité

          L'utilisation de la méthode participative allant de l'identification du projet jusqu'à la maintenance et
l'entretien du SAEP est un point fort pour assurer la durabilité des systèmes d'une part et de la rationalité de
l'utilisation par les bénéficiaires d'autre part.

          Les EMP ayant été formées en matière d'approche participative, ont dû adapter ces approches pour chaque
cas qui se présente, et ce dans le but de gagner la confiance des populations et de les faire participer au processus de
décisions pour la conception, la construction, l'exploitation et l'entretien du système.

          Les associations qui sont toujours en action sont au nombre de 273. Les autres, au nombre de 7,
connaissent actuellement des dysfonctionnements dus essentiellement à une mauvaise gestion financière.




                                                          - 31 -

Sur les 284 systèmes réalisés, un nombre de 273 sont fonctionnels, soit un taux de pérennité de 96% jugé très
satisfaisant pour le projet.

V- CONCLUSION

       Depuis son lancement en 1995, le programme d'approvisionnement groupé en eau potable des populations
rurales (PAGER) a permis la desserte d'environ 11.000 localités regroupant une population d'environ 6 millions
d'habitants. Les investissements réalisés ont atteint 2.8 milliards de DH et le taux d'accès à l'eau dans des
conditions convenables est de 50% à l'échelle nationale. Le reste des populations s'approvisionne à partir des
points d'eau traditionnels (puits et metfias) dans des conditions parfois difficiles.

       Pour le cas du présent projet, les résultats sont jugés très satisfaisants malgré les conditions difficiles dans
lesquelles le suivi des travaux et le déroulement de l'approche participative ont été faits sans assistance technique et
en grande partie par le budget de l'Etat.

       Les impacts du projet sont considérables.

· Une augmentation du taux de scolarisation de 16% en moyenne et 21% pour les filles ;
· Diminution des maladies hydriques de 49%, en particulier les diarrhées;
· La population est enthousiaste pour continuer et renforcer les systèmes d'assainissement liquide initiés dans le
projet
· Malgré l'absence d'une assistance technique et l'ampleur de la tâche de suivi des projets, les lacunes techniques
identifiées par l'évaluation à mi-parcours sont minimes et n'handicapent en aucun cas le fonctionnement des
systèmes réalisés ;
· Les coûts du projet rapportés à l'habitant bénéficiaire ont été optimisés et ne dépassent guère 640 DH.
· 280 associations créées dans le cadre du projet sont fonctionnelles à l'exception de 7 qui connaissent certains
problèmes. Les services extérieurs concernés sont en contact avec ces entités pour les assister à surmonter les
difficultés rencontrées.




                                                         - 32 -

- 33 -

