Report No. PIC3736
Project Name                   Morocco-Rural Water Supply and (@+) ...
Sanitation Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Rural Development
Project ID                     MAPA40566
Borrower                       Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Public Works (MTP), and
Office    National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP)
Rabat, Morocco.
Contact:
Mr. M. Jellali, Director-General
Hydraulics Department, MTP
Tel: 011.212.7.77.87.42
Fax: 011.212.7.77.86.96
Date initial PID prepared      April 1996
Date this update               February 1997
Project Appraisal Date         February 1997
Project Board Date             July 1997
Background
1.   Morocco has redressed its macroeconomic balances and now is
liberalizing its economy thereby providing a basis for strong economic
growth and permitting improvements in living standards and poverty
reduction.   As one of the initiatives, the Government of Morocco (GOM)
has prepared a National Rural Water Supply program with UNDP assistance.
This is a 10-year program to supply 11 million people in 31,000 villages
with safe potable water and thereby help reduce social inequities vis-a-
vis the urban population. Whereas most urban populations have access to
safe piped water, only about 20 percent of the rural population do so.
The Rural Water Supply program wants to increase this number to 80
percent at a cost of about US$1 billion. The proposed project is the
first phase of this program. It would be sized according to GOM's
implementation capacity and available finance. The operation fulfills
priority action of the Government and the Bank's country and rural
development strategy which calls for equitable growth and a correction
of social disparities through, inter alia, rural infrastructure
investments, especially water. At the same time, the Government is also
developing a Pilot Rural Infrastructure Project to test approaches to
supplying a complete package of infrastructure services including water,
electricity, sanitation and access roads or tracks, in six provinces.
Project Objective
2.   The main objective of the project is to provide safe drinking water
to the rural populations and thereby improve their living conditions
and help reduce the social disparities with urban areas. It would also



train young rural unemployed in the maintenance of project structures
with a view to providing a nucleus for small rural repair workshops and
thereby contributing to increasing rural activities and incomes and
reducing unemployment. The project would introduce the latest ideas and
practices for participatory techniques which would also help ensure
sustainability. It would be the first slice of the Government's program
which would be flexible enough to work out any teething problems and
provide a model for future follow-on projects in this area. The first
slice of the program is expected to take 3 to 5 years depending on the
availability of counter-part funds. Close coordination will be
maintained with other initiatives in rural areas (infrastructure, social
investments) to take advantage of the synergism of complementary
investments and actions.
Project Description
3.   The project would cover the whole country with beneficiary villages
selected through participatory methods on the basis of objective
criteria. The latter would be complementary with other GOM investments
and programs such as Social Priorities Program (SPP) which will be
targeted under the proposed Bank-funded BAJ projects. The project
components would include: (a) rehabilitation and creation of collective
potable water supply installations in rural villages (including
conduits, water storage, standposts, wells, pumps; (b) to maximize the
health benefits, the supply of drinking water will be accompanied by
sanitation measures as needed and will include sensitization of
beneficiaries to the sanitation and health aspects of clean water; (c)
institution building including organizing, training and equipping
regional project teams charged with the participatory selection of
beneficiary villages; and (d) organizing, training and equipping teams
for the maintenance of project installations.
Project Cost and Financing
4.   Total project cost is currently estimated at about US$150 million
with a proposed Bank loan tentatively placed at US$40 million. Other
donors are being approached to provide loans and grants of about US$80
million in parallel co-financing.
Project Implementation.
5.   Experience has shown that without a clear commitment from the
beneficiary populations water supply installations in rural areas
quickly deteriorate and are not sustainable. This is why project teams,
technical staff (engineers and sanitary experts) and facilitators
(animateurs and animatrices) will visit each candidate village to
consult with populations and to obtain their views and commitment for
the project. Only villages which show active interest in the project
and are prepared to contribute to its operation and maintenance will be
provided with water supply installations by the project. The Rural
Water Supply plan envisages a large degree of decentralization to
empower the users associations with the responsibility for the
management of water installations with support and coordination from the
Communes. The program will be supported and coordinated from the center
under the National Coordinating Committee set up for the Rural Water
- 2 -



Supply Program and involving the ministries of Public Works, Interior,
Agriculture, and Health as well as the Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP). At the Provincial level support will come from Commissions
including the Provincial Council and the provincial branches of
concerned Government agencies. Institutional arrangements will be given
particular attention during project preparation and will be consistent
with other Bank activities affecting this area.
Project Sustainability
6.   The firm commitment of the local populations would be key to
project sustainability. Therefore, the project uses a community based
approach which aims at the participation of the local populations
throughout the entire process, i.e. in the selection of the locations
and type of project installations, their implementation, and their
operation and maintenance.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.   The project is part a Government priority program to provide safe
water to rural populations and reduce disparities with urban areas. The
Bank's experience in rural development and rural infrastructure
investments makes it uniquely placed to help GOM benefit from the
lessons learned and "state of the art" approaches to the problem. Such
Bank experience includes in particular the completed Loukkos, Fes-Karia-
Tissa, Oues-Rommani and Middle Atlas projects and in five water supply
projects of which the third project had a rural component, as well as
experience from similar projects in Africa and elsewhere in the world.
Furthermore the Government looks to the Bank to play a role in
attracting finance from other cofinanciers.
Lessons Learned
8.   The main lessons learned include: (a) full ownership of the project
by the Government, the implementors and the beneficiaries, is essential
if it is to succeed; (b) a subset of the latter is the need to include
the beneficiaries in the planning of the water supply schemes, to gain
their commitment on future maintenance; (c) simple projects with few
components are most likely to succeed; (d) rural and area development
projects require that time be allowed at project inception to prepare
for implementation; and (e) in Morocco, budget commitment and funding
arrangements are vital.
Issues and Actions
9.   The main issues foreseen at this stage are: (a)    institutional
arrangements to ensure ownership and efficient project execution; (b)
the financing package and arrangements to permit smooth project
implementation in a participatory manner; and (c) coordination of this
operation
with other governmental endeavors in rural development (e.g.
electricity, access roads, etc.). The appraisal mission will review
these aspects.
-3-



Program Objective Category
10. The project is targeted to improve basic services for rural areas,
where most of the poor in Morocco live.
Environmental Aspects.
11. The project is ranked as a Category B project. Please see attached
Annex.
Project Benefits
12. The project would contribute towards providing basic needs of the
rural populations, particularly the poor, by providing them with safe
drinking water. This would reduce waterborne diseases and a healthier
population would in turn mean higher productivity and increased
contribution to the national output. In addition, relief from long
distance water haulage would permit higher school attendance levels and
improve literacy among young girls, who currently spend a
disproportionate amount of their time in fetching water over long
distances.
Risks
13. The main risks include: (a) level of commitment of the local
populations to the project to ensure its sustainability; (b) unequal
commitment of involved ministries and communes to ensure funding for the
project; (c) future maintenance of project installations. These risks
would be reduced by involving the population more in project design,
implementation, and maintenance. The Government's commitment to funding
wouuld be reconfirmed during the appraisal process and appropriate
assurances would be sought.
Contact Point:      Mr. T. Sinha, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-2809
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending Feb. 28, 1997
- 4 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The project will have a positive impact in improving people's
health and would be categorized as "B" for the purpose of the
environmental assessment.
The project's major environmental impact would improve rural
hygiene through an organized supply of safe drinking water and the
construction of basic sanitary facilities. The increased supply of
water, including in some cases through house connections, poses an
immediate risk of unsanitary wastewater disposal and the consequences of
surface and groundwater pollution. The project would avert these risks
through technically-appropriate and affordable installations. To reduce
additional health risks, the project would also not allow use of
asbestos-cement pipes.



