Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17005 MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
WITH AN US DOLLAR TRANCHE IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO
US$ 5 MILLION
AND A FRENCH FRANC TRANCHE IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO
FF 29.5 MILLION
TO
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
October 31, 1997
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1997)
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
US$ 1.00 =DH9.5
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            -       Country Assistance Strategy
CFD            -       Caisse Franvaise de Developpement
CR             -       Rural Commune
CRS            -       Catholic Relief Service
DGCL                   General Directorate of Local Communities
DGH            -       Direction Generale de Il'Hydraulique
DPTP           -       Provincial Department of Public Works
DRH            -       Direction Regionale de I'Hydraulique (Regional Hydraulic
Directorate)
ERR            -       Economic Rate of Return
EU             -       European Union
FAO            -       Food and Agricultural Organization
FAO/CP-                World Bank-FAO Cooperative Program
GNP            -       Gross National Product
ICB            -       International Competitive Bidding
JICA           -       3apan Intemational Cooperation Agency
KFW            -       Germnan Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LCD            -       Liter per Capita per Day
MOF            -       Ministry of Finance
MOH            -       Ministry of Public Health
MPT            -       Mobile Participation Teams
MTR            -       Mid-Term Review
NCB            -       National Competitive Bidding
NGO            -       Non-Government Organization
NPV            -       Net Present Value
OECF           -       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
ONEP           -       Office Nationale de l'Eau Potable
O&M            -       Operation and Maintenance
PAGER -                Water Supply Program for Rural Populations
PF             -       Public Fountains
PRA            -       Participatory Rural Appraisal
SOE            -       Statements of Expenditures
TA             -       Technical Assistance
UNICEF         -       United Nations Children Fund
WID            -       Women in Development
WSS            -       Water Supply and Sanitation
WTP            -       Willingness to Pay
WUA            -       Water Users Associations
WW             -       Wastewater
Vice President K. Dervi,s
Country Director C. Dr'voie
Sector Leaders S. Dw, ghouth, M. Wilson
Task Teamn     T. Sinha, P. Koenig



Morocco
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Table of Contents
Project Financing Data ..............................................................I
Block 1: Project Description ..............................................................2
1 Project Development Objectives ...............................................................2
2. Project Components ..............................................................2
3. Benefits and Target Population ...............................................................2
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ..............................................................2
Block 2: Project Rationale ...............................................................3
5. CAS Objectives Supported by the Project ..............................................................3
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ..............................................................3
Government Policy ..............................................................3
7.  Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...............................................................5
8.  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ..............................................................5
9.  Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ...........................................................5
10. Lessons Learned and Incorporated  in the Project Design ..............................................................6
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership  ...............................................................6
12. Value Added of Bank Support .............................................................................................................................................6
13. Economic Assessment .........................................7
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments .........................................7
14. Financial Assessment ........................................7
15. Technical Assessment .........................................8
16. Institutional Assessment .........................................9
17. Social Assessment ...........................................10
1 8. Environmental Assessment ........................................ 10
1 9. Participatory Approach ........................................                                                                                                               10
20. Sustainability .......................................                                                                                                                         11
21. Critical Risks .......................................                                                                                                                         11
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................................                                                                                                         11
Block 4:  Main  Loan  Conditions ........................................................................................................................ 12
23. Conditions .............................                                                                                                                                       12
24. Agreements and Assurances .............................                                                                                                                        12
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies .............................                                                                                                               12
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .............................                                                                                                                      13
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .............................                                                                                                               14
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .............................                                                                                                                    22
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .............................                                                                                                              23
Annex  5: Financial Summary ........................................31.............................................................................................. 31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                                                                                        32
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................                                                                                            36
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .......................................                                                                                                    37
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................                                                                                                              38
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .............................                                                                                                                       40
Morocco MAP - Project Provinces



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Project Appraisal Document
Morocco
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Date: October 31, 1997                                                       []  Draft       [x] Final
Task Team: Messrs. T. Sinha and P. Koenig                Country Manager: Mr. Christian Delvoie
Project ID: 40566                                        Sector: Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS)
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan    PTI:   [X] Yes             [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   [x] Loan       []  Credit       [   Guarantee    []   Other [Specifyj
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 10.0 million   - Retroactive Financing: US$ 0.5 million
Proposed Terms:              .]                     IMulticurrency  j[x   Single currency
Grace period (years): 5            []   Standard Variable    []  Fixed             [x]   LIBOR/PIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: N/A.
Financing plan (32 % foreign exchange) *
(Costs in US$ million)                             Project                                         Program
Source:                                                                    (as appraised by
Phase I (years I to 3 yrs)                    Phase II (years 4 to 6)  Bank)
Local        Foreign          Total                Toal               IQoal
Local Govt. and Beneficiaries     12.0           -               12.0                 14.0              26.0
:IBRD                              6.0          4.0             10.0                  20.0              30.0
Other Proposed Financiers:
KfW (Germnan)                      6.0          4.0              10.0                 6.0                16.0
CFD (France)                       9.0          6.0              15.0                 3.0                18.0
OECF (Japan)                       6I0 40                        10.                  20.               3
Total                             39.0         18.0             57.0                  63.0              120.0
* This financing plan, especially for Phase II, is only indicativ.
Actual amounts will depend on Govemmnet's negotiations with
the different financiers.
Note: Phase 11 financing by the World Bank to be committed
after satisfactory evaluation of Phase I
Bor ower: Kingdo m oforo M orocco.--..---------.--
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Direction Gendrale de Hydraulique (DGH) - Ministere des Travaux Publics, ONEP
Estimated disbursements of World Bank funds  1998        1999        2000        2001
(Bank FY/US$m):
Annual 2.0          4.0          3.0         1.0
Cumulative 2.0          6.0          9.0        10.0
For Guarantees: N/A                                 []    Partial Credit     [I Partial risk
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?: N/A                    Yes                     No
Expected effectiveness date: March 1998                                              Closing date: December 31,2001



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                                                     2
Country: MOROCCO                                                     Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators)
The project seeks to improve the access of rural populations to safe potable water and to support the implementation of Government of
Morocco's master plan program for the supply of water to rural populations (PAGER). About 75% of the poor in Morocco live in rural
areas and it is estimated that only 20% to 30 % of the rural population currently have good access to safe water. By improving rural
water supply, the project aims to improve the health and productivity of rural populations, and to reduce the burden of rural girls who
are traditionally involved in fetching water over long distances which lowers their attendance in primary schools. The proposed
project will complement investments in primary education being made through Morocco Basic Education Project (Loan 4024).
and for this purpose it will include most of the provinces that are also included in the Basic Education Project.
The strategies for achieving these objectives are:
(a) Participation: The project will use a participative rural appraisal process involving beneficiaries, including women, to assure that
the project is demand oriented and is properly dimensioned and located. Training for this purpose has already been provided using a
grant from FAO.
(b) Cost-effectiveness: To assure that the largest possible number of population are reached, the project will give preference to
reconstruction, expansion and rehabilitation of existing sources of water where feasible. Also, to give incentives for cost-effectiveness
the project will place an initial grant ceiling of DH 1,200 per beneficiary.
(c) Local Institutions: To assure sustainability full operation and maintenance cost will be recovered through water charges, which
will be collected by water users associations, or other acceptable management mechanisms, and local individuals selected by them.
This has already been tried in pilot projects and found to be successful. The project will provide training for strengthening the capacity
of local institutions.
2. Project components * (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Project                       Proerag
Component                      Phase I          Phase II      Cost Incl. Contingencies   % of Total
(US$ m)                     (US$m)
Rural Water Supply                               46.7              51.7                98.4               82
Rural Sanitation                                  5.1               5.9                11.0                9
Local Institutional Strengthening                 4.6               4.8                 9.4                8
Central and Provincial Support (DGH/ DPTP)        0.6               0.6                 1.2                1
Total                     .57.0                                    63.0               120.0              100
* The allocation of funds, especially for Phase 11, is only indicative. Final amounts depend on actual negotiations between the
Governmnent and the different financing agencies.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target yovulation: The project will focus on the country's poorest provinces with the highest concentration of rural population.
Within the provinces covered by the proposed project, the project assistance will be targeted to rural areas with greatest need. The
original Goverunent proposed project, based on an FAOQCP Preparation Report was for about USS 248 million. Due to limited
implementation capacity, it was reduced to and appraised by the Bank and CFD, KfW, OECF as a US$ 120 million Program. It will
target 27 Priority Provinces of a total of 58 rural provinces country wide. (Annex 2 (a) - List of Priority Provinces). The Program will
be part of PAGER.
During negotiations, the Moroccan delegation expressed the Government's commitment to the proposed Program for rural water
supply and sanitation, but requested that it be divided into two Phases. Phase I - the proposed Project - could be completed in two to
three years, at the end of which a second Phase (about 3 years implementation) can be started, incorpoating the lessons learned from
Phase 1. As a con..equence, the proposed Loan is reduced from US$ 30 million to US$ 10 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       3
Country: MOROCCO                                                       Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Blnefits :The project is expected to benefit about 1.3 million rural inhabitants (Phase I - 600,000 people), who generally have poor
quality water often far from their homes. A recent Bank study ( Morocco - Enhancing the Participation of Women in Development,
Report No. 14153, 1995) found based on Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) that the lack of adequate potable water figured as
women's highest ranking problem in many of the villages covered in the study. Fetching water is a women's task and young girls often
as young as five years old are expected to help out. This keeps them out of schools. While investments in basic education is being made
under Loan 4024 MOR, it needs to be complimented with supportive investment in rural water to free girls to attend school. The
proposed project would ensure that safe potable water is provided from public taps which would be less than one kilometer from the
homes of the beneficiary population, thereby considerably reducing the work load for children, who can then attend school. The quality
of water will also be improved and beneficiaries, especially small children, will receive significant health benefits particularly in
terms of reduced diarrhea incidence and morbidity. Based on experience elsewhere in the world, diarrheal diseases in children up to 5
years of age can be reduced by about 50% in the villages covered by the project, one year after project completion. These results will
gradually improve over time, as health education messages and changes in behavior take hold.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
- Implementation period: Project (Phase 1): 3 years; Phase II: 3 years
- Executing agencies: (i) Directorate General of Hydraulics (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW); and
(ii) Office Nationale de I' Eau Potable (ONEP)
- Project coordination:
- National level: Ministries of Public Works and of Interior
- Provincial level: Provincial Commissions, presided by Governor or Wali and comprising representatives from MPW, Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Public Health
Financial Intermediary: Ministry of Finance
- Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: DGH and ONEP will maintain project accounts and will submit to the
Bank annually, within six months of the end of Government's financial year, audit reports prepared by independent financial auditors on
project accounts, statements of expenditures and special accounts.
- Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: DGH and ONEP monitoring and evaluation units will submit quarterly reports on physical
and financial progress of the project. These units will submit a mid-term evaluation report by December 31, 1999, and a final
evaluation report prior to loan closing.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project
The project objective is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (Report # 16219-MOR, January 8, 1997) which was discussed
by the Board on January 13, 1997. The project supports one of the three key objectives of CAS, which is to strengthen rural and social
development including poverty alleviation focusing on basic education, health care, water supply and rural infrastructure. Because of
its importance for the country's development strategy, satisfactory performance on rural water supply is included as a key CAS
objective and is one of the triggers for high case lending assistance to Morocco.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
i) Urban vs. Rural - Access to Safe Water Supply: While Morocco has been remarkably successful in providing virtually all urban
inhabitants with potable water, only about 20% to 30 % of the rural population were estimated in 1996 to have access to potable water.
However, estimates vary from one region to another and could be as low as 10 % in some southern provinces. This urban bias is due to
several reasons. First, urban areas are economically more advanced (75% of the poor live in rural areas) and therefore cost recovery has
been easier. Accordingly organizations such as ONEP, which have to maintain financial viability, have given a preference to
investments in urban areas. Second, urban areas have been politically better organized, and therefore their needs have been recognized
earlier. Third, with local budgetary constraints of 1980s and early 1990s, the Government tended to postpone investments in rural
potable water, which was not seen as a productive investment. This situation is changing and a master plan program for improving
access to safe drinking water in rural areas (PAGER) has been prepared by the Government.



Project Appraisal Docutment                                                                                         4
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Title: Rural WaterSzupplyandSanitation
ii) Sanitatiown Statistics on rural access to sanitary disposal of excreta and wastewater vary, and adequate rural sanitation coverage
nation wide is estimated at about 35 %. This figure masks, however, a much grimmer reality in the poorer southern and mid-Atlas
provinces, wherc; less than 10 % of the rural people have latrines or any other form of safe human waste disposal. This contributes to
health problems, specially in denser rural communities. Provision of sanitation is therefore necessary, but both DGH and ONEP do not
have much experience in rural sanitation and therefore have not been keen to invest in sanitation. H4owever, a start needs to be made to
get full benefit of safe drinking water supply and build local capacity. Therefore, a pilot component would be included in the project.
iii) halth Aspects: The dismal rural water and sanitation situation is the primary cause for the poor health of the rural population. In
1995, the Ministry of Public Health (MPH) registered nationwide 1,064,000 cases of diarrhea in children of less than 5 years of age.
Unofficial estimates are much higher, perhaps double. These water and hygiene-related diseases are more prevalent in poor provinces
which are also suffering from water shortages. Consequently, registered diarrheal diseases in 1995 affected 37,300 children in
Ouarzazate (plus about 40% who received private care or no care ), 10,000 children in Tata (plus about 15 % to 20 %), 30,000 children
in Errachidia (plus about 20 %), and 37,500 children (plus about 20 %) in Taroudant. In 1989, the MPH reported about I ,000 deaths
linked to diarrheal diseases among children, representing close to 30 % of all deaths in this age group. In reality and due to large
number of unreported cases, this figure is much higher. According to MPH, about 40 % of all diseases are water / hygiene related.
Although no precise data exists for more recent years, the MPH estimated that the overall situation has improved during the past two
years, largely as a result of the special program "Lutte contre les maladies Diarrh6iques" (Fight Against Diarrheal Diseases), the
nationwide draught recovery efforts and other programs that have started to focus on improving quality of life in rural Morocco (Annex
4 - Attachment). In addition, the MPH registered in 1994 nationwide 4,138 cases of Typhoid and 362 cases of cholera. It is recognized
that the only long-term sustainable impact on water-related diarrheal diseases can be achieved through preventive measures, such as
safe drinking water and sanitary facilities and health education.
iv) Gender Issuest  Rural water supply is essentially a women's issue. The Bank's Enhancing the Participation of Women in
Development (WID) Sector Study ( Report No. 14153 of 1995) has shown that because of a lack of availability, drinking water has to
be hauled over long distances (often up to 5 kin) in rural areas and that it is mainly the role of women and girls. This adversely affects
women's education. Because it is mainly men that consult and are consulted in the provision of rural infrastructure, often rural roads
and electricity are given higher priority than rural water. A reflection of this bias is that while the Bank has a free standing rural
electricity and a secondary (rural) roads project, rural water has been neglected. Following the recommendations of the WID Study,
which showed that in most rural areas, the highest priority infrastructure investment need was to improve access to drinking water, it
has been agreed that a rural potable water supply project deserves a very high priority in Bank's assistance strategy.
GOVERNMENT POLICY:
i) Rural Water Supply Master Plan:  The government has increasingly become aware of the growing rural - urban gap and the
consequential rural exodus. This has been specially emphasized during the droughts of early 1 990s, when the lack of reliable drinking
water supply in rural areas has been one of the factors leading to an exodus of rural populations to urban areas. In 1994 the Government
submitted to the National High Council for Water and Climate a Master Plan for the Development of Rural Water Supply. The Council
approved the plan, which provides for near universal coverage (80 %) of rural populations in ten years. To implement the Master Plan,
the Government designed in October 1995 a country-wide rural water supply program (PAGER).
ii) Implementation and Management Responsibilities: According to a government decree ("La Charte Communale") of 1976, the local
communities and communes (urban and rural centers) are responsible for building and managing rural water supply under the auspices
of the Ministry of Interior and the assistance of the technical departments of the Ministry of Public Works. ONEP assists in this
function in larger villages through a management agreement with the communes, and where there is an existing regional water
conveyance pipeline (meant primarily for urban areas but traversing rural areas and managed by ONEP) from which branches for rural
population can be constructed.
iii) Financine and Cost Recovery: The Govemment's policy for water supply from public stand pipes has been to recover full cost of
operation and maintenance from beneficiary, but to cover investment costs from the budget. Because of budget difriculties, and the
need to provide benefits to a larger number of beneficiaries, the Government is now expecting local Govemments and beneficiaries to
participate in the financing of up to 20% of investment costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         5
Country: MOROCCO                                                        Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(Reference documents: World Bank: Kingdom of Morocco Water Sector Review, June 1995 (Report No. 14750 - MOR); Morocco
Enhancing the Participation of Women in Development Study, June 1995 (i;.port No. 14153 MOR); Morocco Country Assistance
Strategy, January 8, 1997 (Report No. 16219 MOR); The Contribution of People's Participation - Evidence from 121 Rural Water
.Supply Projects (ESD Occasional Paper Series No. 1).
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address both rural water supply and sanitation issues in line with local implementation capacities. The participation of
local populations in the project is essential. The project provides assistance to build local capacity for this. Sanitation and health
education aspects are crucial to get full benefits of the new investments. The project will emphasize these aspects. Gender sensitivity is
another important factor, given the role of women in transportation and use of rural drinking water. Therefore, the project will assure
that the Mobile Participation Teams - MPT (discussed in Section 15 below, and in Annex 2 (b)), have, to the extent possible, at least
one female agent for consulting women and for providing training in sanitation aspects
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Technical asects:
i) Rehabilitation versus new systems: Rehabilitation of existing system allows lower cost expansion of quality service. Therefore,
rehabilitation will be -iven preference. Only in areas, where rehabilitation possibilities are limited, will the project consider construction
of new system.
ii) Water supply pumped with renewable power (solar or wind energy) vs. thernal: Cost benefits of solar, wind, and thermal powered
water pumps were examined. Generally thermal powered pumps had the highest Net Present Value - NPV - (about 60 % of investment
costs) and these would be favored in most cases. However, there are a few cases where winds are specially favorable and in these
locations wind powered pumps would be provided, if considered the preferred option by local communities. Solar energy would be
used in locations where supply of fuel is particularly difficult. In both cases, the communities would have the option to use the power
source also for simple electrification, if this proves to be cost-effective.
iii) Hand pNmps: Another option under consideration was to concentrate the project on building mostly water supply installations based
on manual pumping methods. Surveys and past experience in Morocco indicate that the people in general prefer motorized pumping,
because motor pumps produce more water. However the project is demand-driven and, therefore, will be open to all technically and
financially viable options, including hand pumps. There may be some small villages, where local populations may prefer such options
because of lower operating costs. In those cases this option will be offered.
Financial aspects:
iv) Beneficiarv contribution: In view of budgetary constraints, and also to establish a firmer basis to asses demand, contributions by
beneficiaries is essential. However, considering that about 75 % of Morocco's poor reside in rural areas, their ability to pay full cost is
a problem. Therefore, cost sharing between the Govemment and the rural poor is needed. Experience shows that Govermnent budget
cannot be relied upon to cover O&M costs, therefore full coverage of O&M costs by beneficiaries would be expected. This amounts on
average to 60% of initial investment costs in discounted present value terms. The investment costs would be fnanced mainly by
Government and donors. Several levels of beneficiary participation in initial investment costs was examined. Full financing of
investment costs by the Govemment was rejected because it does not allow a firm detemination of demand and reduces felt ownership
of the project by the beneficiaries. Local contributions from beneficiaries and communes combined would be expected at a rate of
20% of project costs, with beneficiaries contributing at least 5%.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Bank:   Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Loan 3935-MOR)
Fifth Water Supply Project (Loan 3664/3665-MOR)
Social Priorities Program - BAJ - Basic Health Project (Loan 4025-MOR)
Secondary Roads Project (Loan 3901 -MOR)
Second Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3262-MOR)
Rural Infrastructure Project (under preparation)
A number of other projects in the water sector address mainly urban water supply and sewerage management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         6
Country: MOROCCO                                                         ProjectTittle: RuralWaterSupplyandSanitation
LU:    Grants to ONEP during the last 4 years for water supply and sanitation in small urban centers of about ECU 50 million; A
new grant of ECU 40 million will have a rural water component of about ECU 24 million.
KfW:    Several grants and soft loans to ONEP in support of water supply and sanitation in small urban centers of about DM 400
million over last 20 years;                                             !
CMD      Several soft loans to ONEP and DGH in support of water supply in small urban centers and rural communities of about .200
million FF.
JlCA/0ECF: Grants and credits to ONEP and DGH for TA and the supply of equipment (e.g. water pumps, trucks) equivalent of about
USS 50 milion.
UNDP: Grants to DGH for TA and equipment for about USS I million.
10. Lessons learned and incorporated in the project design.
The Lessons Learned through the above operations are four-fold:
(i) Past sector support has predominantly focused on improving urban systems. The results have been positive, to the point where
Moroccan cities have almost universal public water supply coverage, and about 70 % of urban dwellers are connected to wastewater
collection systems, most of which are, however, not linked to wastewater treatment. At the same time, rural areas have nWLreceived the
necessary investments to keep up with a basic infrastructure which is the prerequisite for economic development. In the past years, the
priorities have clearly shifted from urban to rural areas. the proposed project would help cement that shift in development emphasis.
(ii) Due to the absence of community participation, rural water and sanitation projects, or components of projects, were supply-driven.
Per capita investments have been too high and in some cases investments were too sophisticated (and expensive) for the rural
communities to maintain and operate. Likewise, a recent Bank publication - "Contribution of People's Participation" (July '95) -
reviews 121 water projects with rural water components. It concludes that especially in rural areas, the failure rate in terms of
sustainability is large. The main reason is attributed to a lack of popular participation in choosing the supply system that matches
peoples' demand and willingness to pay. The proposed project uses state-of-the-art participatory approaches (Section 15 and Annex 2,
Attachment (b), below).
(iii) The first Bank project for rural water supply in Morocco, executed through ONEP in the Ziz-Tafilalet region demonstrated that
community participation (social surveys, including a willingness-to-pay [WTP] assessments) are necessary to come up with the project
design that responds to demand. The project designed water supply systems from public fountains (PF) to provide 30 liters per capita
per day (lcd). Actual consumption was between 10 lcd and 14 lcd, depending on the season, which is the result of supply-driven project
implementation. In addition, the project did not foresee any measures for the disposal of (increased) wastewater. This is a particular
problem in the walled-in villages. The proposed project would determine demand through participative design, and where needed will
provide for disposal of waste water.
iv) In recent years, several international agencies, notably UNICEF and NGOs, have carried out small-scale, pilot-type, rural water and
sanitation projects with full use of participatory methods. The NGO CRS has worked particularly in southem provinces, including in
Tata which is a priority project of the proposed project. CRS has shared their experience with the Bank and, as they are planning to
expand their activities, they may enter into an agreement with the government to closely cooperate with the partners of the proposed
project.
I1. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment is currently mixed. A Government budget allocation of at least DH 100 million (USS10.5 million) for
disbursements during the 1997/98 FY, plus another DH 100 million in commitments, also to be made in FY 1997/98, has been
approved by the Governmnent. The following indicators are favorable:
(i) H.M. The King's declaration of priority for developing rural areas, notably sectors that contribute to social and economic well-
being, i.e. rural infrastructure (water, sanitation, health, education,roads);
(ii) Government's agreement with the new CAS which gives explicit priority to rural water supply; and
(iii) Government's adoption of the master plan for rural water supply.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        7
Country: MOROCCO                                                        Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
12. Value added of Bank support:
(i) Introduction of participatory approach and PRA methodology, which are needed to assure that investments are cost-effective and
are well maintained;
(ii) Introducing concepts of cost-effectiveness to reduce program costs
(iii) Acting as a catalyst for mobilizing external financing; and
(iv) Partnership Agreement between the Ministries of Interior and TP (Joint Memorandum of the two Ministers signed Nov. 7, 1995).
13. Economic Assessment  [x]                     []       Cost Effectiveness Analysis:   I ]
(see Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: Project (Phase 1): NPV=US$ 15.5 million
Phase I:     NPV=US$ 12.5 million
Total Program: NPV=US$ 28.0 million
NP of US$ 15.5 million and ERR of 15% are based on a 30 years average life expectancy of the systems and on the project targeting
the 25 % of the 'worst-off populations in each province. This excludes most health benefits, which could substantially increase the
return.
Sensitivity Analysis: If the project were to be expanded to address an additional 15% of the populations, the ERR would decline to
10%, without including health benefits.
The SCF is 0.9; the opportunity cost of capital is 10%.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
14. Financial Assessment:
(i)  Budget: Given the severe budget constraints and the limited absorptive capacity of the sector, the appraisal mission found that the
originally proposed project size of DH 2.2 billion (about US$ 245 million) was over-ambitious. Accordingly, the Govemment agreed to
reduce the original proposal to about DH 1.1 billion (about US$ 120 million), the Program which was jointly appraised by the Bank,
CFD, KfW and OECF. During negotiations, the Government requested that the Program be broken up into two Phases. Phase I (the
proposed Project) would cover the first three years of the Program. If the evaluation of the first Phase was satisfactory, a second three-
year Phase would be launched, incorporating the lessons from the first Phase. The Government assured the Bank that it would implement
the Program as fast as possible, so as to increase access to potable water by the rural population from a currently estimated country-wide
average of 30 % to 80 % in the next ten years.
(ii) Cost Effectiveness: Analysis of sub-projects during appraisal showed that some past investments had high per capita investment
costs, of up to US$ 800. Under the project, typical costs per beneficiary will be reduced drastically. Accordingly, it is proposed that for
the first phase, per capita investments would have a ceiling of DH 1,200 (about US$ 126) for new systems, including the building of a
well or borehole, and DH 900 (US$ 95) for systems, where water in acceptable quantity and quality is already available. Investments with
higher unit costs may be allowed in some cases, if justified by higher benefits. But these would be approved only if the beneficiaries
agreed to finance 100 % of the excess cost.
(iii) Beneficiary Assessment: Discussions in the field with beneficiaries, volunteer groups and local officials, revealed that the
convenience factor of investments in potable water and sanitation was more prized than the health benefits. The willingness to pay
(WTP) for water for house connections is almost twice that from public fountains. The project would give emphasis to actual demand
through beneficiary assessments. Incremental costs would be met by beneficiaries.
(iv) Cost for Water Supply: The least cost water supply system built by DGH is the hand pump (about US$ 28/capita); the most



Project Appraisal Doctument                                                                                    8
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
expensive ones are systems based on solar or wind energy (US$ 150 and higher, depending on water head, length and elevation of the
pipeline, the size of the reservoir and the number of people to be served). However, solar pumps require expensive replacement parts, i.e.
the pump after 5 - 7 years and the panels after about 12-15 years. In some cases, existing wells can be equipped or upgraded to minimize
new investments. The project would limit per capita investment costs. (see Section 14 (ii), above). For more details on unit costs, see
Annex 4, Section G.
(v) Cost for Sanitation: In the original project proposal (FAO/CP Project Preparation Report, June II, 1996), the sanitation component
was limited to health education. However, the sanitation component needs to be strengthened by physical work, so as to maximize health
benefits, one of the project's key objectives. The cost of a simple ventilated latrine is estimated at DH 1,000 (US$ 105), or about USS 13
per capita. This low cost option is included to keep the financial burden low. It will cover 75% of the cost of the sanitation component
(Annex 2 - Project Description and Annex 4, Section G - Cost Effectiveness).
The cost for household latrines would be borne by individual families. The existence of a latrine or other sanitary wastewater disposal
system will be a pre-condition for the installation of water supply house connections, regardless of who pays for the house connection.
The cost for public sanitation installations, such as latrine blocks for schools, small sewer collection systems, communal septic tanks and
perhaps simple wastewater treatment stations, would be borne by the Government.
(vi) Willingness to P_y (WTP):
- Water: Socio-economic studies and surveys carried out by ONEP and DGH define the main parameters to be considered for the
development of water supply services. Limited incomes in rural households are the major limiting factor to effective cost recovery.
Nevertheless, studies show that in the case of water supplied through ONEP, a majority of rural dwellers is willing to pay between DH 1 0
and DH 15/m3 (US$ 1.05 - US$ 1.58) for water in small quantities from a public fountain (PF). Based on experience and actual cases
(purchases from tank trucks, water vendors), the mission estimates that the 25 % "worst-case" populations (distance to water point more
than I km, poor water quality and water security) are willing to pay on average DH 40 to DH 50/m3; for the 50 % "worst-case"
populations, WTP is estimated at DH 30 to DH 40/m3. Of course, quantities consumed from Pfs, tank trucks and far-away sources are
small, in most cases not exceeding 15 U/c/d. Such water is generally used only for cooking and drinking purposes. Even in rural areas,
people generally prefer house connection to PFs, and they are willing to pay up to double the price of water from a PF. The figures for
house connections indicates that where the convenience factor is a given (i.e. house connections were preceded by PFs), WTP declines, as
compared to the worst-cases. According to the ONEP studies, average rural incomes are about DH 25,000 per household per year (US$
2,600). However, this indicator masks rural disparities and mnay not be applicable for the target populations of this project. If the worst-
case population (project's target group) has a family income of about DH 13,000 per year (US$ 1,370), the annual water bill for this
family may be as high as 12 % of the family income.
- Sanitation: WTP for sanitation services is less evident. This is mostly due to (a) the lack of hygiene awareness (especially among
men) and knowledge of the relation between hygiene, health and water; and (b) the traditional household budget control by men, who
perceive less of a need to have a private latrine than do women and children. But WTP for sanitation has not yet been systematically
tested. It is likely that with intensive health education, the need for individual hygiene and excreta disposal facilities will increase, -and
with it, the willingness to financially contribute to the cost.
(vii) Accounting and Audits: DGH and ONEP will maintain separate project accounts, which will be audited annually, along with the
special account and statements of expenditures (SOEs).
- A special account equivalent to four months of disbursements (up to $ 1.2 million) will be maintained
15. Technical Assessment:
The Government has agreed to implement PAGER through participatory methodologies, with least cost technologies, adapted to the
demands and WTP of the communities. This requires extensive, decentralized preparation, in terms of training, selecting and sensitizing
the communities, and mobilizing the physical and financial resources to implement the project. Under this project, DGH will work in 20
southern, mid-Atlas and northern provinces. They were preliminarily allocated to the co-financiers as follows: El Jadida, Ouarzazate, Safi,
Sidi Kacem, Tata (World Bank); Taroudant (KfW); Al Hoceima, Jerada, Oujda-Angad, Taourirt, Berkane, Boulemane, Ifrane, Sefrou, El
Hajeb, Khemiset (CFD); Azilal, Khenifra, Beni Mellal, Khourigba (OECF). Twelve of these provinces are also included in the BAJ or the
Social Priorities Projects (Lns. 4024/25/26). ONEP will work in 15 provinces, eight of which are overlapping with those of DGH (Annex
2 - Attachment (a) - List of Priority Provinces).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         9
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Tiitle: Rural Water Szpply and Sanitation
The participatory process includes a demand assessment, mobilization and commitment of communities. In the case of DGH, these tasks
tasks will be the responsibility of Mobile Participation Teams (MPT), under the direct supervision of the Provincial Departments of Public
Works (DPTP). Each province would initially have one MPT which would consist of 3 members. It is foreseen to introduce a second
team per province, starting with the third project year. At least one member per MPT should be a water and sanitation technician. The
other members would be a health technician and a public communicator ('animateur' or 'animatrice'). Of the latter two positions, to the
extent possible, at least one member should be a woman, for whom the role of 'animatrice' would be ideal, as this expert will have to
communicate especially with women. Appropriate assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations. Women are in charge of water
as part of their household chores. Ideally, the MPTs should be chosen from the respective province. Utilizing local expertise, languages
and being familiar with particular cultural backgrounds is essential for the success of the project.
The first group of 14 MPT members, constituting five MPTs, was selected from the staff of the Ministry of TP and has been trained in
September / October 1996. However, no woman was among the first group of trainees. A second group, constituting 10 MPTs, was
trained from mid-April to end May 1997. However, only 5 women participated. A third group of another 7 teams will be trained in
September 1997. A significant portion of the training consists of field work, 'applied learning' in a rural environment. Trainees will also
be taught basic knowledge in financial matters and health education. The first year work program is being prepared in close consultation
with the beneficiaries. As a Condition for Negotiations, a work program for the first six months was presented to the Bank. Assuranc
were also obtained that a tentative annual operational plan will be presented to the Bank by March 31 of each year which will be finalized
by September 30 of the same year. In collaboration with the beneficiaries, this program will be up-dated every 6 months. It will be
reviewed by the Bank in the course of field visits (supervision missions) to assure technical, social, financial and economic soundness
(Annex 2 (b) - Participation Approach).
ONEP has recently started - in the context of KfW-funded projects - implementing rural water projects with participatory methods.
Similarly, as envisaged under the DGH component, the first phase of this approach consists of a sensibilization campaign. It is initiated
by specialized teams of ONEP's regional offices (including a woman sociologist) and addresses local authorities, politicians and potential
beneficiaries. Once the latter have declared water as a priority, chosen the location for their water point and are willing to participate in
the investment cost with a financial contribution of at least 5 percent, construction of the PF will begin. Before the PF becomes, however,
operational, the village has to select and nominate a local manager of the water point ("gardien gerant"), who, if accepted by ONEP, will
be responsible vis-a-vis ONEP for the payment of the water bill and for the sanitary maintenance of the PF and its immediate vicinity.
Technologies:
Principal Water Supply Systems: Supply modes will largely depend on water availability, beneficiary demand and WTP, investment and
maintenance costs. DGH has preliminarily classified the possible supply systems according to the number of people to be served:
- less than 300 pop. - simple well or rainwater collection systems equipped with hand pumps;
- 300 to 900 pop. - well or borehole with electric / diesel / solar pump, storage tank and pipeline to one or more PFs;
- 900 to 3,500 pop. - same as above, but including small distribution system, allowing for several PFs.
Water supply systems implemented by ONEP will include:
- 'piquages' (connections from public long-distance main carriers) for nearby villages, with one or more PFs per village;
- local water supply systems (boreholes supplying public water stand-pipes), notably for groups of villages with an aggregate population
of more than 2,000.
Operation andMaintenance: Sustainability and year-round service delivery are key objectives of the Project. This will be assured by
beneficiaries organized in water users associations (WUA), or similar viable management structures (MS) at the village level. The
availability of technical know-how, especially for pumps, as well as spare parts is, therefore, essential. Appropriate training will be
provided by DGH and ONEP. Assurance were obtained that a WUA or MS is in place in a village prior to the start of works, and that
agreement on O&M has been reached with the WUA/ MS. The implementing agency will involve the WUA/MS during construction
phase and will provide appropriate training to designated WUA/MS representatives prior to hand-over of the investment.
Sanitation: The following types of sanitary installations will be included in the Project
- 250 to 500 pop. - simple ventilated pit latrines for individual households;
- block latrines for schools (with water supply facilities 'br hygienic purposes);
- larger villages with more concentrated populations may qualify for a small-diameter wastewater collection systems with a communal
septic tank;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    10
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
NGOs are already successfully working in several provinces, and it would be useful to involve them in implementation of the proposed
Project. In case of an NGO participation in the project implementation, DGH and ONEP will inform the Bank of the contracts signed
with the respective NGO(s).
16. Institutional Assessment
a. Executing agencies:
DGH and ONEP are the main Project implementing agencies. DCH and ONEP will utilize their decentralized regional offices in close co-
operation with the Ministry of Interior to facilitate closer consultations with the affected populations. While ONEP staff is adequate to
implement the project, DPTP technical staff will need training in beneficiary assessment and participation. The training has already
begun and the initial results are good. This will be continued under the project (see Section 15, above).
b. Project management:
Overall project coordination is the responsibility of DGH. Specific management designations are as follows:
i) DPTP and rural commune: For a village or small community to be considered in PAGER, the establishment of a community-based
WUA/MS is a prerequisite. The WUA/MS would be in charge of managing the water system on a day-to-day basis, including cost
recovery, operation, maintenance and repair. The WUA/MS would also be responsible for coordinating health education activities with
the Ministry of Health or the designated local health center. Once implementation is completed, fully in line with participatory
methodologies (Section 15 - Technical Assessment and Annex 2, Attachment (b)), the new or rehabilitated water systems will be turned
over to the WUA/MS. DGH already has good experience with WUAs and some have been operating successfully for more than five
years near Ouarzazate.
ii) ONEP (a) Water Supply: For house connection services, ONEP would retain management responsibility; for PFs, ONEP will
contract a 'gardien gerant' (a local manager), who will be billed by ONEP for the water used at the metered fountain (about DH 5.6/m3)
and, in turn, he will charge his clients about DH 10/m3. The difference would be his remuneration for operating and maintaining the
water point. This is the traditional approach followed by ONEP for all their public fountain programs; (b) Sanitation: while latrine
construction would be the responsibility of individual households, ONEP would manage the construction of block latrines and small-bore
sewer systems, ifjustified by the quantity of water used.
17. Social Assessment:
The project will focus on poor rural areas, notably those identified according to poverty criteria established for BAJ Provinces (i.e.
covered by the Social Priority Projects, Ln. 4024/25/26- MOR), where living conditions are severely constraint due to a lack of social
and physical infrastructure. The absence of a safe water supply and sanitary environment is a key factor for poor public health. It affects
schooling, labor productivity and overall economic output of Morocco's rural areas. The field work done in the context of Morocco -
WID Study (Report #14153 ) highlighted the high priority attached by women to the provision of potable water close to their houses, and
its significant impact on attendance of girls in elementary schools.
The project would expand PRA methodologies already introduced in the course of WID Study and during project preparation in 1996.
This would help ensure sustainability. Accordingly, project design and implementation would assure flexibility, to adjust to demand
expressed by beneficiaries.
18. Environmental Assessment:      Environmental [ ]   A          [x ]  B       []    C
Category
The project's major environmental impact would be to improve rural hygiene through an organized supply of safe drinking water and the
construction of basic sanitary facilities. The supply of water in most cases will replace existing sources of polluted water and therefore
would not increase overall waste water generation. In most cases the daily consumption is small (less than 20 liters per capita per day)
and human settlements are small (less than 1000 person per village) and therefore waste water disposal is not a major issue. Still, in
some cases villagers may choose to pay full incremental costs for house connections, which could increase water consumption and pose-a
wastewater disposal problem. To avoid this problem a sanitation component is included in the project and construction of latrines would
be a pre-condition for house connection. To avoid contamination, wells for water supply will be constructed sufficiently away from
latrines to avoid contamination. Where water is provided through pipes,the project would n=t allow the use of asbestos-cement pipes.



Project Appraisal Dociument                                                                                                  11
Country: MOROCCO                                                               Project itle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
19. Participatory Approach:          Identification/Preparation             Implementation                  Opertion
Beneficiaries/community groups      Consultation by DGH                    Participation                   lead role
and NGOs
Participation where agreed in    provide training when
Intermediary NGOs       consultation                           consultation with local         requested by
communities and DGH             community groups.
Academic institutions    N/A                                    N/A                              N/A
Local government      consultation                           Consultation and participation.  through WUA
Other donors
KfW (Germany)        consultation                          financing                        N/A
CFD (France)      consultation                           financing                       N/A
OECF (Japan)       consultation                           financing                       N/A
EU      consultation                           financing -parallel project     N/A
See Section 15, Technical Assessment, and Annex 2, Attachment (b) - Participation Approach, for detailed description on participation.
20. Sustainability:
The traditional, supply-driven approach to rural water supply and sanitation has not been very successful in terms of both, sustainability
of the systems and their utilization by beneficiaries. As a result of many post-implementation evaluations and social assessments, the need
for a more demand-based approach has become apparent. Beneficiaries' involvement in the decision-making process for design,
construction and operation and maintenance, including their WTP, has become a major element of rural projects' design in the 1990's.
The process as well as methodologies of participation have evolved over the last five to seven years, but there is no 'blue print'. Each
situation has to be examined on its own merits. However, as far as performance and sustainability assessments are possible after this
relatively short period of time, the improvements in duration and viability of the systems built with participation from the beneficiaries,
have been remarkable. This project uses state-of-the-art participatory, demand-driven methods which are expected to enhance the
likelihood of sustainable investments (Section 15, Technical Assessment, as well as Annex 2, Attachment (b), provide details on
participatory methods).
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
jz                 Risk Ratine                                Risk Mnimization Measure
lo......................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Government budget allocations  . medium    Budget allocation for the project is DH 100 million plus an additional 100 million of
are not forthcoming                           commitment authority in the first year of the project. In addition, HM The King, in his
letter to President Wolfensohn, has highlighted that implementation of PAGER is a high
priority action for the Govemment. Budget for subsequent years will be reviewed during
supervision along with the annual program which will be submitted by March 31
preceding each fiscal year (para 24). The project size was reduced in line with this.
Interest of communities to         medium    Initial evaluation done during Morocco WID Study and the project preparation have
participate in the project and                confirmed interest. In addition, the expanded participatory process will reconfirm
willingness to pay (WTP).                     interest and WTP. Sensitivity analysis shows its importance in ensuring acceptable ERR.
Adequate implementation of the   . medium    Initial TA in participatory process, including gender sensitivity training, was provided
participatory approach by the                 during the preparation phase; a grant for continuation of the training has been arranged
Government, including                         through FAO and it is already under implementation. In addition, assurances were given
consultation of women so that                 by the Government that, to the extent possible, at least one women will be included in
new water points are located in               each MPT. Adequate consultation and village level organizations (see below) are
line with the wishes and                      essential for ensuring adequate O&M, and sensitivity analysis confirms its importance
convenience of the populations                for ensuring adequate ERR.
........................................................................   .......................................................................................... ..........
The village level organizations    medium    A WUA or MS will be set up in each village prior to the start of works in the village
are able to collect sufficient                and agreement reached with the WUA/MS on O&M responsibility; and training for
funds to assure operation and. O&M will be provided to a representative of each WUA/MS prior to hand-over of the
maintenance and continued       .             investment to the WUA/MS.
water supply



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              12
County: MOROCCO                                                              Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Sanitation: insufficient           high     Interest of beneficiaries has been confirmed during appraisal and performance will be
participation from the population           evaluated during a mid term review (MTR) to be completed by December 31, 1999. The
component is relatively small (10% of project cost) and TA and sensibilization
campaigns will further raise the need for sanitation.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........................................................................      ..      ..  .........,....      .....................      .............,  ..............
Insufficient availability of water    medium    Water availability is assured before begining of works. Proposed annual work programs
*           . are based on confinned water availability.
Overall risk rating:             moderate
he overall risks that the project would fail to achieve its objectives and/or development targets are moderate, since there is a significant
popular demand for water supply (and sanitation), especially by women in rural areas, where coverage of safe water availability is
currently as low as 30%. The priority for this service has been confurmed through the Morocco - WID Study and participatory planning.
Project size has already been reduced in line with budget constraints.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. The following Conditions were met prior to Negotiations:
The Government will allow signing of about DR 200 million in contracts during the first year of the Project, with disbursements of
about DH 100 million, b) The Government has prepared a tentative operational plan for the first year of project implementation and
presented the Bank with a detailed program for the first six months, c) A project co-ordination committee was appointed with the
participation of Ministries of Public Works, Interior, Health, Agriculture, and ONEP.
24. Loan Effectiveness: Assurances were received that a Project Implementation Manual with a participatory focus, satisfactory to the
Bank is prepared, prior to Loan Effectiveness.
25. The following Assurances were received during loan negotiations:
(i) Project Monitoring and Evaluation Cells (with the participation of Direction Generale de Communautees Locales (DGCL) will be
set up in DGH and ONEP. The cells will submit to the Bank a mid-term evaluation report by June 30, 1999, and a final evaluation
report before loan closing (which is six months after Project completion); (ii) a tentative annual program will be prepared in
consultation with beneficiaries and presented to the Bank by March 31 of each year, to be finalized by September 30 of each year.; (iii)
a satisfactory plan for allocation of budgetary and non-budgetary local resources by March 31 of each year; (iv) a WUA or MS will be
set up in each village prior to the start of works in the village and agreement will be reached with the WUA/MS on O&M
responsibility; (v) appropriate training for O&M will be provided to a representative of each WUA/MS prior to hand-over of the
investment to the WUA/MS; (vi) a mobile participation team (MPT) with adequate qualifications will be set up in each project
province according to schedule agreed at appraisal, and, to the extent possible, at least one member of the team will be a woman.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: T. P. N Sinha Country Manager: Christian Delvoie
By: Marjr         ealios



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   13
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
The CAS Objective is to (a)    Implementation of key rural    Performance on this key CAS    Continued economic and
renew support for economic    and social development     objective will be monitored  political stability, and
reform; and (b) strengthen  programs such as the national   during annual country    increased priority for social
social and rural development.  rural water program (PAGER)  assistance review and    and rural development in
Accordingly, at least one-third   will be accelerated. At least    discussion and satisfactory  Government's investment
of investment program will be   250,000 additional rural  progress towards this is a  program.
for social and rural        population will be served with  trigger for high case lending to
development including poverty  safe water in 1997/98; 500,000  Morocco.
alleviation focusing on basic   in 1998/99; and 750,000
education, health care, water   thereafter.
and rural infrastructure.
Project Development         i) Reduce by 50% the diarrheal  Impact will be evaluated  Complementary investments in
Objectives:                 disease rates in young children  during mid-term and     social and rural development
i) Improve the health and   (less than 5 yrs. old) within one  implementation completion  through Bank-assisted projects
productivity of rural       year of project completion, and  reviews through independent   for basic education (Loan
population, particularly                                 sample surveys. Project     4024), health (Loan 4025), and
children, who currently have    ii) Provide complimentary  monitoring and evaluation unit  rural roads (Loan 3901, and
poor access to safe water ,and   assistance to Morocco Basic    will make annual estimates of   3951) are implemented as
ii) Reduce the burden of girls   Education Project (Loan 4024   progress towards meeting this   planned. The provision of
who currently carry water over  MOR) to achieve enrollment   goal.                    Bank financing which is
long distances in rural areas    target of 46%, and retention                        already approved and close
and which prevents them from   rate of 65% by FY2001 in 10                           supervision will help assure
attending primary schools.  rural provinces (a follow-up                             that these investments are
project will cover the                                  made.
remaining three provinces).
Program/Project Outputs:    Project Targets are achieved:   Project monitoring and   a) New water points are
The Program/Project will    i) after 3 years             evaluation unit will monitor    located in line with the wishes
provide rural populations with  - 600,000 additional people    improved access on a quarterly  and convenience of the
safe water and sanitation   will have access to safe water   basis through field reports and   populations;
through : (a) construction and   and adequate sanitation; and    visits. This will be reviewed    b) The village level
rehabilitation of about 2,000                            by Bank supervision missions.  organizations are able to
(650) public water points with  ii) after six years:                                 collect sufficient funds to
a capacity to deliver about  - 1.3 million additional people                         assure operation and
20,000 (7,000) cu. m. of safe    will have access to safe water                      maintenance and continued
potable water per day, (b)  and adequate sanitation;                                 water supply; and
construction of about 85,000                                                         c) Interest of the population in
(40,000) household latrines                                                          improving sanitation.
and 20 (20) block latrines for
schools, and  the
development of village level
institutions for efficient
operation and maintenance of
rural water points.
Project Components:         Budget allocation for the    Assurances regarding the first   a) Interest of communities to
[See Annex 2 for a detailed  project is DH 100 million plus   year allocations were obtained   participate in the project and
description.]               an additional 100 million of    prior to negotiations, and  willingness to pay,
commitment authority in the    subsequent year programs will  b) Adequate implementation
Proect input : Financial    first year of the project. Budget be submitted by the    of the participatory approach
support, TA, and training   support is maintained in the  Government by March 31     by the Government, and
DH 150 to 200 million range    preceding each fiscal year, and  c) Adequate budgetary
until project completion.   reviewed by supervision     support.
missions.



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                                   14
Couintry: MOROCCO                                                     Project Tiftle: Rzural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 2
Detailed Program / Project Description
Total estimated Program Cost: US$ 120 million *
Project Cost (Phase 1): US$ 57 million
Project Cost Summary                                       Project                Program
Phase I -      Phase 11
prop.Project
Rural Water Supply Investments (ONEP, DGH)          US$ 46.7       US$ 51.7       US$ 98.4
Sanitation Investments (DGH, ONEP, Beneficiaries)   US$  5.1       USS 5.9        US$ I 1.0
Technical Assistance:
- Local Institutional Strengthening (MPTs)          US$  4.6       US$ 4.8        US$ 9.4
- Institutional Support at National and Provincial Levels  US$  0.6  US$ 0.6      US$ 1.2
Ioal                                                 US$ 57,0      US$ 63.0       US$120.0
* Final allocation of funds, especially in Phase 11, may vary, depending on actual negotiations between the Government and the
differnet financing agencies.
Component I - Rural Water Supply - USS 98.4 million (total Program cost of component)
US$56.7 million (Phase I)
Investments:
- DGH                                       US$21.8        US$24.2        US$ 46.0
- ONEP                                      US$ 24.9       US$ 27.5       US$ 5L4
- Total                                     US$46.7        US$51.7        US$ 98.4
DGH, through its DHR-DPTPs, will implement the Project (new and rehabilitated and improved water supply facilities) in
communities, villages and groups of villages with populations from about 250 to 3,500. ONEP will focus on larger rural centers
(above 2,000 pop.) and villages that are close to existing ONEP regional and inter-city water conduits. DGH would have the overall
responsibility for project coordination. The Project will be implemented with a participatory approach, based on community demand
and WTP. Through full participation by the beneficiaries - from design through implementation and operation and maintenance - the
approach will integrate the provision of safe drinking water, sanitation services and health and hygiene education.
Rural water investments are expected to benefit about 1.3 million rural inhabitants, at an average per capita investment cost of S 95,
ranging from US$ 28 (handpumps) to US$ 125 (ONEP independent systems (Annex 4, Section G - Cost Effectiveness).
Local contributions from beneficiaries and rural communities combined will amount to 20 % of investment costs, with a minimum
cash contribution of 5 % by the beneficiaries. Beneficiaries will pay the full cost of O&M.
Component 2 - Sanitation - US$ 11.0 million (total Program cost of component)
US$ 5.1 million (Phase I)
Project        Program
Phase I    Phase 11
Investments
- household latrines (about 85,000/40,000)          US$ 4.0    US$ 4.3    US$ 8.3
- block latrines for schools (20/20)                US$ 0.2         -     US$ 0.2
- small-bore sewerage collection and communal
septic tanks (2/1)                                 USS 0.8    US$ 0.7    US$ 1.5
- lagoon-type treatment stations (1/-)                 -       US$ 0.5   US$ 0.5
- siphon trucks for emptying septic tanks (5/-)        -       US$ 0.3   USS 0.3
- contingency (block latrines)                      US& 0.1    US$ O.    UEZ.. 0.2
Total investments                                   US$ 5.1    US$59    US$11.0
To maximize public health benefits, the supply of drinking water has to be accompanied by sanitation measures, such as physical
construction of safe wastewater and excreta disposal systems, with technologies commensurate with family demand and size of the
population. This physical work would be carried out with full beneficiary participation and alongside an intense sensitization and



Project Appraisal Doctument                                                                                     15
Country: MOROCCO                                                       Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
hygiene education program. The availability of a household-based excreta and wastewater disposal system is a condition for a private
water supply connection.
While household latrines will be funded by the beneficiaries, public installations, such as block latrines for schools, small sewer
collectors and community septic tanks, as well as lagoon-type wastewater treatment, will be funded by the Government. Siphon trucks
may be funded by the Government, but run by a private enterprise. Public installations will be built as a pilot program.
Component 3 - Local Institutional Strengthening - US$ 9.4 million (total Program cost of component)
US$ 4.6 million (Phase I)
Summary of Cost Breakdown:                                                US$ (million)
- I DRG/DPTP Technical Coordinator (local) per province
(DH 103,000 / yr. / province for 5 yrs. and 20provinces *)         0.7      0.5       1.2
- 16 MPTs for 5 years **                                              -      3.8       3.8
- 30 MPTs for 3 years                                               3.9    0Q- 5       4.4
Total                                                              4.6      4.8       9.4
* DGH Provinces only
**/ work under DGHIDRG/DPTP is expected to begin in 20 priority provinces. By October 1997, at least 20 MPTs are expected to be
trained.
The cost of the participatory approach, including community mobilization and health education and carried out mostly by local
personnel, is tentatively estimated at 8 % of total Program / Project cost. It involves the creation, training and running of Mobile
Participation Teams (MPT), initially one MPT per province, for 20 priority provinces covered by DGH. As the number of villages
with new systems increases, monitoring and follow-up work in these villages will divert time for new village preparations from the
MPTs. Therefore, beginning with the third year, a second MPT per province will be introduced, so that the pace of implementation
can be maintained. The MPTs will consist of three members, a water and sanitation engineer, a health specialist and a communications
expert. As women play a key role in household water management, to the extent possible, one member of the team would be a
woman, ideally the health or communication expert. The participatory approach involves several visits (up to 10) per village between
project inception at the village level until actual implementation.
Project Component 4 - Technical Assistance: Institutional Support at Central and Provincial Levels - US$ 1.2 million (total
Program cost of component)    - US$ 0.6 million (Phase I)
The cost of this component is estimated at only I % of total project cost as project implementation is highly decentralized. This
component will help provide technical back-stopping, monitoring and evaluation for the decentralized project implementation. It will
include:
US$ million
- I L/T Technical Advisor (international) for DGH (2 yrs)               -     0.3      0.3
- short-term consultants for specific tasks, both for DGH and DRH/DPTP  0.6   -        0.6
-     10 mm international experts                                     -      0.1     0.1
-     550mm local consultants *                                       -      0.2     02
Total                                                           06    0.6      1.2
*1 a large portion of these funds will be used to prepare feasibility studies for village water supplies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       16
Country: MOROCCO                                                        Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 2
Attachment (a)
MOROCCO- PAGER
List of Priority Provinces
Provinces                     Preliminary Allocation        Responsibilitv          BAJ Provinces 1/2 *
to Donors of DGH component.
El Jadida                     WB                            DGH                            2
Ouarzazate                    WB                             DGH/ONEP                      I
Safi                          WB                            DGH                            I
Sidi Kacem                    WB                             DGH/ONEP                      I
Tata                          WB                            DGH                            I
Taroudant                     KfW                           DGH/ONEP                       I
Al Hoceima                    CFD                           DGH                            I
Jerada                        CFD                           DGH
Oujda-Angad                   CFD                           DGH
Ifrane                        CFD                           DGH
El Hajeb                      CFD                           DGH
Khemiset                      CFD                           DGH
Azilal                        OECF                          DGH/ONEP                       I
Khenifra                      OECF                          DGH                            2
Beni Mellal                   OECF                          DGH/ONEP
Khouribga                     OECF                          DGH/ONEP
Essaouira                                                   ONEP                           I
Marrakech                                                   ONEP
S.Y, Ben Ali                                                ONEP
Boulemane                     CFD                           DGH/ONEP
Fes-Jdid                                                    ONEP
Sefrou                        CFD                           DGH/ONEP
Nador                                                       ONEP                           I
Errachidia                                                  ONEP                           I
Meknes                                                      ONEP
Other Provinces in Parallel projects
Berkane**                     CFD                           DGH
Taourirt **                   CFD                           DGH
*/     I = Ist priority BAJ Province
2  2nd priority BAJ Province
**f    These provinces proposed for CFD funding are currently also included in the Bank's proposed Rural Infrastructure
Project, currently under preparation. However, none of the PAGER provinces, proposed for Bank financing, are overlapping
with the Rural Infiastructure Project.



Project Appraisal Doczment                                                                                      17 
Country: MOROCCO                                                       Project Tiitle: Rural Water Szpply and Sanitation
Annex 2
Attachment (b)
PARTICIPATION PROCESS
1.     An essential aspect of the PAGER Project is that it will involve the rural population in the selection, partial financing,
and operation and maintenance of their water supply systems. This will lead to cost effectiveness, especially in terms of
continued operation, and thus to a sustainable potable water supply.
2.     The tool to involve the rural population is the Mobile Participation Team (MPT) of each province, composed of two
water and health technicians and an animatrice/animateur to ensure contact with all water users, especially the women. The
MPT will be a part of the DPTP structure and work in the priority provinces to be covered by DGH under the proposed project.
Under an ongoing KfW-funded project, ONEP has already established similar MPTs. To the extent possible, at least one team
member should be a woman who speaks the local dialect, preferably the animatrice or health technician. The MPT will work
in approximately 12-16 villages in each of the priority provinces in the first year. In addition, the project may also address
poverty pockets in other provinces, as may be decided from case to case. The MPTs work will involve the following steps
which are also presented in tabular form in Attachment (d).
PREPARATION PHASE
Formation and Training of the Mobile Participation Teams (MPTs)
3.     Candidates are nominated by DGH/DPTP (or other participating agencies) for training, after which they are screened
by the trainer and grouped in several multi-disciplinary teams. The candidates receive a theoretical and practical field training
of 4-6 weeks.
4.     The first cycle in fall 1996 included lessons on how to consult with rather than direct local people, using special
methods designed to encourage groups of people to interact while providing useful data on different aspects of village life.
These include current population, village layout, water resources, and felt water needs. The approach was applied with teams
of 2-3 candidates, spending 2-3 days in a village, then meeting to discuss their experience; afterward the same team applied the
approach to a second village and produced a village profile as a basis for PAGER work. A serious problem was the absence of
female trainees, so women's interests were not adequately considered.
5.     Observation and interviews indicated that the trainees leamed to appreciate and use the new method well, but need
additional training components in the next training session. These include training in technical aspects of designing
appropriate water systems, model plans, cost estimates, especially for operation and maintenance, procedures on how to form a
water users' association (WUA), and on accounting, tariff design and collection, and health and sanitation. Once project
construction has begun, the MPT will need to learn training locals in operation and maintenance.
6.     Material needs: Educational materials for use with villagers were prepared, tested and refined before, during and
after the April-May 1997 training. Each MPT will need to be provided with a set of these educational materials, plus means of
transport (four wheel drive) and motivation in terms of a per diem, or a similar compensation, to be able to carry out their field
work.
Pre-selection of Villages
7.     There will be one MPT for each of the priority provinces. Other MPTs may be trained to work in poverty pockets of
other provinces. The first activity of the MPT will be to sensitize the authorities with visits to provincial and local officials,
including the rural communes, to explain their participatory work.
8.     Using the existing prioritized list of villages defined by the provincial PAGER committee, each MPT will visit about
30 of the initially selected long list of villages (1-2 per day) out of which a shorter list of about 12-16 villages will be selected
whose inhabitants express the priority need to improve or build a new water supply system. The village must also meet a first
round of selection criteria including population size (from 250 to 3,500) and water resource availability. Using MPT
information from the field, Regional Hydraulic Directorate (DRH) and Provincial Department of Public Works (DPTP) staff
will suggest up to four technical options with rough cost estimates for each site.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          18
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Confirmation of Water Resources
9.      DRH/DPTP integrate the pre-identified villages into their next reconnaissance drilling campaign, in order to confirm
adequate availability and quality of water.
Animation Phase
10.    This will take place in three main steps, to allow villagers to consider choices between visits of the MPT and to
allow the MPTs to complete office work, obtain technical assistance from the DRH and regional Public Works Department
(DPTP) and possibly from consultants. In the intervals, the MPTs would also work in other villages, according to a priority
plan that optimizes proximity of villages to minimize travel time.
a)     The important first visit will be a participatory appraisal, to establish contact and collect inforrnation on various
aspects of village life and on their water needs. The MPT will also check villagers' views on different possible water supply
systems, including their willingness to pay. Based on the information prepared during village pre-selection, discussions will
focus on investment choices and costs, operation and maintenance costs, management and the villagers' approximate
contribution and financing plans. The need for and creation of a water users' association (WUA), or similar management
structure (MS) will also be discussed, as well as the availability of land to secure the access to water.
This will take about 2 days per village, with an overnight stay for better integration with the population.
b)     A second one day visit will include villagers' selection and acceptance of a water supply system, as well as of the
financing plan. Willingness to participate with 20 % of the investment costs (between the commune and the beneficiaries, with
a minimum contribution of 5 % from the beneficiaries) is a condition for selection. Villages choosing household connections
will agree to pay the full incremental cost and fulfill the precondition to a house connection, have a technically adequate
wastewater and excreta disposal system. Any land acquisition required to secure the access to water will also be firmed up
during this visit.
After this field work, about a day of office work will be needed for the MPT, to allow it to discuss and initiate the
prefeasibility study which will then be carried out by a consultant hired through DRH/DPTP.
c)     A third one day visit will be necessary to check progress and provide support for the creation of a water users'
association, and to collect socio-economic and health indicators to use in evaluating project impact.
I.    For reasons of flexibility, the timing allows 5 days per village for the MPT visits during the animation phase.
Another two days will be added for office work, totaling about 7 days per village. This makes 7 x 16 villages (the estimated
number of retained villages, considering that of the originally visited 30 villages, about half will drop out, due to unmet
selection criteria). This represents about 1 12 working days or about 6 months, based on 200 working days per year. During the
animation phase, additional selection criteria will be collected, such as maximum investment cost per person, the commitment
to participate with 20 % of these investment costs, the existence of a legalized WUA and the commitment of the village
population to operate and maintain the system after construction.
Preparation of Construction Works
12.    The MPT will facilitate the signature of a convention between partners: the state, the WUA and the rural
commune. The association will collect at least 50% of the villagers' financial contribution and deposit it in their own bank
account. The DPTP will launch the bidding process for construction works. This will preferably be done in lots that will allow
the grouping of equipment for several villages within a province.
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
13.    Construction will begin, when 100 % of the local contribution is collected. Once physical construction is under way,
the MPTs will continue to visit the villages, supervise the work with the support of DPTP experts, help with determining the
cost of the water and train the villagers to manage their water system, to maintain the equipment, control. water quality and to
continue providing them with basic hygiene education.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        19
Countiy: MOROCCO                                                        Project Tiitle: Rzural Water Supply and Sanitation
After-Construction - Management - Phase
14.    The MPT will also provisionally (pending a one-year contractor's warranty) hand over the management of the water
system to the WUA, and ownership to the rural commune that holds jurisdiction over the village. After about 12 or 18 months
the MPT will collect impact data (see below) to measure and monitor project progress, and it will continue providing technical
support as needed, for at least another two or three years.
15.    The WUA/MS will designate the responsibility of specific tasks (financial management, tariff collection, O&M) to
selected members. The WUA/MS will also closely follow the contractors one-year warranty, after which the system will be
handed over definitely to the WUA and rural commune for management and formal ownership.
16.    Technical indicators will continue to be collected and recorded by the MPT, beginning two months after the first use
of the system for the first six months and then twice a year.
17.    Socio-economic and health impact indicators will be also be collected by the MPT once or twice a year starting 12-
18 months after the system becomes functional.
18.    Similar technical and socio-economic data will also be collected from 'traditional' villages (those that have received
water supply system without the MPT-driven participatory approach), in order to allow impact comparisons between the
different approaches.
19.    The MPT will carry out periodic refresher courses on health and hygiene in the villages they visit.
NOTES ON IMPORTANT ASPECTS OF PAGER
20.    The use of community participation to implement a water supply project through PAGER is new for the Hydraulic
Office of the Ministry of Public Works (DGH), just as popular participation is new in Morocco in general. Given the proper
support, the Hydraulic Office's PAGER project can become a model for the rest of the country. Participation has great
potential benefits for the Government and for the population. Government funds will go further when local people
contribute to project costs, and their involvement will mean a more sustainable water supply system and relieve Government of
ongoing responsibilities and costs. The population can use their newly-learned organizational skills to bring other benefits to
their community, for example working together on improving a road or the local school. This is not theoretical: the mission
visited several functioning, water users' associations and saw cases of this happening.
21.    The key to the success of PAGER is the work of the Mobile Participatory Teams or MPTs, who will implement it
at the community level. During the appraisal mission in February / March 1997, some members of the five teams trained in
the fall of 1996 were visited by the mission and the results are encouraging. These DGH/DPTP employees, mainly water
technicians, had learned and used the interpersonal skills necessary to work closely with communities. Local people they
contacted liked and respected them, and male community members and local and provincial officials understood what the
teams were doing.
22.    However, observation of and discussion with the MPTs revealed certain pressing needs which must be met for them
to carry out their work effectively.
a)     MPTs need female members. Women are the main suppliers and managers of potable water in Morocco, so it is
essential their needs be taken into consideration. Yet often they do not meet with men from outside the village or family.
While it is assumed that village men can speak for them about water needs, this is not true. Determining the priority of water
is central to PAGER; in some field visits women gave it first priority while naen did aot. Similar disagreements have been
found in other Bank research on water in Morocco (Davis et al 1993). Thus, the appraisal mission stressed that each MPT
should have at least one w.)man. To date, only few women from DGH/DPTP staff were available for training. The appraisal
mission explored the possibility of hiring women from provincial offices and rural communes, but they were not available
either. Most women working in these administrative offices are married and can not freely travel and absent themselves from
their families for field work. In other cases, a per diem added to salary might make them more accessible. If female staff can
not be seconded from other Ministries like Health or Social Affairs or Youth and Sports, or provided by NGOs or international



Project Appraisal Documiiient                                                                                     20
Countty: MOROCCO                                                        Project Tiitle: Ruiral Water Supply and Sanitation
agencies, like CRS or UNICEF, they should be hired as consultants, for example on one-year renewable contracts. Female
staff should be recruited from the province in which they will work, to ensure knowledge of the local dialect and culture.
b)     MPTs need additional topics of training: technical aspects of different water supply systems with typical models
including costs, accounting, (economic) pricing of water, operation and maintenance, forming water users' associations, and
health and hygiene.
c)     MPTs need material support in the form of office equipment, vehicles, and a food allowance. The office equipment
is necessary to keep records to evaluate the progress and impact of PAGER, and four wheel drive vehicles (with a maintenance
allowance) are necessary to reach villages in the Project Provinces which often have limited access and transportation
infrastructure. Finally, the MPTs will spend much time in villages and while Moroccan hospitality will ensure they are
provided for, MPT members do not want to stress the resources of an already poor population. Thus, each member should be
provided with a per diem of about 1,000 DH a month to purchase food. Beyond the benefit of not imposing on needy
villagers, this monetary support will provide a psychological motivation to the MPTs, a concrete demonstration of the value of
their participatory work in the summer sun and the winter rain. People who feel valued and supported will do excellent work,
while those who feel disadvantaged or exploited will not, and the impact of PAGER depends on the quality of MPT work.
d)      MPTs need more personnel.  One MPT team per province cannot carry out all the work required to reach the
project's objectives. Since support and monitoring visits to the villages after the construction phase will divert MPT time from
mobilizing new villages, a second MPT per province will be needed, at least after the second project year.
23.    None of the five MPTs trained in the fall of 1996 had begun work before the February / March 1997 appraisal mission
arrived; one began after a request to observe their work. The DRH/DPTP said this was because they did not want to raise
village expectations for a water supply system, unless funding was secured and available. The delay may also have been
exacerbated by the lack of female staff. MPT work has now started.



Project Appraisal Docrrment                                                                                        21
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Tiitle: Rural Water Suipply and Sanitation
Annex 2
Attachment (c)
PAGER-MPT PROJECT CYCLE
ustainabe
water
supply
for all
Unlimited                                                                                        V Management
I            M /onitoring and Evaluation
one year                12 months                                  Periodic checks and
follows by MPT
................... ---------------....... .... ..  Handover of project  ,*-----------
(water supply system)
6 months                                 Physical construction   IV Construction
raining
of the
committee
one year                                      __                                _
Contrast for
Construction
Signing of agreement between three partners, state,
comnune and WUA/MS
Commitment of village       III Decision
4 months            Feasibility Study
Village Animation
......--               .    .. ....... .... .Preparation of bids          -----------.
Confirmation of pre-     II Programming
selection
2 months           Commitment of the
commune
.......... .............. _,........ ,Pre-se-lection of villa.,ges ,
I day    i      Basic information by                          ,   I Information
MPT to village
Outside village                  In the villageI
Duration                           Sequence                             Phases
CR: Rural Commune                         DPTP: Provincial Department of Public Works
DGH: General Hydraulic Directorate        MPT: Mobile Participatory Team
DRH: Regional Hydraulic Directorate       WUA: Water User Association



Project Appraisal DoCIInent                                                                                       22
Cozuntry: M1OROCCO                                                      Project Tiitle: Rutral Water Suipply and Sanitation
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs *
(Phase I)
Project Components                                               Local (%)**    Foreign (%)**      Total
-----------------------US $ million---------
1. Rural Water
- ONEP: Expansion, rehabilitation and new systems                 15.9 (64)        9.0 (36)        24.9
- DGH: Village well improvement, conveyance and new systems       14.0 (64)         7.8 (36)       21.8
Subtotal                               29.9 (64)        16.8 (36)        46.7
2. Sanitation:
- household latrines                                               3.6 (90)        0.4 (10)         4.0
- block latrines (schools, public markets)                        0.3 (100)            -            0.3
- small sewer and communal septic tanks                            0.7 (85)        0.1 (15)         0 8
Subtotal                                4.6 (87)         0.5 (13)        5.1
3. Local Institutional Strengthening (MPTs)                        3.7 (80)        0.9 (20)         4.6
4. Central and Provincial Support (DGH/DRH)                        0.5 (83)         0.1 (17)        0.6
Total Project Cost                                                38.7 (68)        18.3 (32)       57.0
* Financial allocation of funds may vary, especially for Phase 11, depending on actual negotiations between the Govemment
and the different financing agencies.
* * percentages may not reflect exact amounts, due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                23
Country: MOROCCO                                                              Project Tiitle: Rural Water Stpply and Sanitatioh
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Base Year 1996)
Present Value of Flows                   Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis *        Analysis'          Taxes             Subsidies
Project Costs               ERR: 15 %
Phase 1: US$ 57 million     (based on project  N/A               $6.7 million      none for O&M.
Phase II: US$ 63 million    focus on 25% of                      (Phases I and 11)  About 90% of
"worst-off' rural                                      investment costs
pop);
10% ERR is
reached
w/project focus
on 40% worst-
off pop.
NPV =
Phase l:$M 15.5
Phasell:$M 12.5
Total: SM 28.0
(based on project
focus on 25% of
"worst-off' rural
pop.)
* the opportunity cost of
capital is estimated 10 %.    NPV = zero,
based on 40%
worst-off cases
Economic Analysis - Methodology and Results
A.      Summary
1.      The exchange rate used throughout the report is USS I = DH 9.5.
2.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 15 % is based on a target population of the 25 % worst-off cases. It was
calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of household water supply and sanitation services over a thirty-year period
(expected life of the major project components - civil works and pipes) with and without the project. The rate of 15 % is
equivalent to an NPV of US$ 15.5 million for the first Phase (the proposed Project) and US$ 12.5 million for the second Phase of
the Program (discounted at 10 % per year). The definition of these worst-off cases means that the sum of the quantified values of
(i) time spent to fetch water (distance from water point), and (ii) investmznts ryeqired - or water price paid to private vendors, to
assure water security (level of water quantity and quality), is the highest (Tables 6 and 7, below), as compared to other percentiles
of the population. An ERR of 10 % and NPV zero is reached, if the Project focuses on 40 % of the worst-off population.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flovWs is large and cannot be explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference
is warranted, e.g., 'The difference between financial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs.'



Project Appraisal Docutment                                                                                     24
Countyty: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tiilde: Rural WVater Stipply and Sanitation
3.          For the purpose of this Project, the population was apportioned into the 'worst-off' 25 %, 50 %, 75 % and one line
refers to 100 % of the villages identified per province (Table 1). The 25 % worst-off families spend on average per month, in
monetary and non-monetary terms combined, DH 188 (US$ 19.80) for an estimated 4 cubic meters (m3) of water per household
(about 8 people per household), or about 15 liters per capita per day (lcd). This amounts to a value of water of DH 471m3 (USS
4.95) which, in the absence of scientific surveys, is used as proxy for the willingness to pay (WTP) value. The value of water has
been discounted by 10 % to arrive at the economic value of water. The 25% "worst-off' population group would be the focus of
the project. To stay at or above a 10 % ERR, project coverage may not be extended beyond 40%  of worst-off population. At 10
% ERR, the NPV would be zero (Sensitivity Analysis, para 6, below).
4.     The range of Net Present Values (NPV) was calculated by accumulating net benefits, discounted at 10 % over a 30 year
period.
Table I
DH/bousehold       Minimum budget  Medium budget for  Economic value of   Population
for water           water              water           affected
................................... DHlhousehokldmonth ..............................    (millions)
ForIO0%ofcases                 50                111                 100             13,5
For75%ofworstcases             80                129                 116             10,2
For 50 % of worst cases        102               154                 139              6,8
For 25 0/oof worst cases       146               188                 169              3,4
5.     However, beyond these quantifiable benefits, the project is expected to produce a considerable amount of non
quantifiable benefits. Most of them are health related. In Morocco, there are no statistics or numerical indicators about how much
time family members, especially women, spend with a sick child; or how many children, in addition to receiving Oral
Rehydration (ORH), also receive medical treatment; or, perhaps most importantly, how to value the cost of lost education, due to
school absenteeism as a result of sick days; or, ultimately, of course, how to value the lost life of a child. The accumulated value
of these factors, plus the sheer comfort value of having good quality water in sufficient quantities close by, add a substantial
bonus to the quantifiable viability of the project.
6.     Sensitivity analyses show that to keep the project at or above a 10% ERR, the project's target population may not exceed
40% of the 'worst-off' cases. The project will be designed so as to meet these criteria. If villages outside this target group would
like to participate, the overall local contribution (beneficiaries and communes combined) will have to increase above 20 % to
keep the quantifiable economic viability at or above a 10% rate of return.
7.     Additional sensitivity was tested by varying the water use per capita and the WTP value:
(i) if water use per capita varies between 10 lcd and 17 lcd, the ERR would range from 5.9% to 17% and NPV from a negative
US$ 6.6 million toa positive US$ 15.7 million. The break-even point (zero NPV) is at 12.1 lcd water use;
(ii) if the WTP value ranges from DH 30/m3 to DH 45/m3, the ERR would range from 0.2% to 13.7% and the NPV from a
negative US$ 14.7 million to a positive US$ 6.3 million. The break-even point, NPV zero, is reached at WTP 4 1/m3 (Sensitivity
Analyses);
(iii) if quantifiable health benefits fall to zero (base assumption is 50% child diarrheal incidence reduction), or double to 100%,
the ERR and NPV would change only marginally; and
(iv) if a proiect delay of one year would occur, the ERR would drop to 14.8 % and the NPV (Phase I) to US$ 10.1 millioi .
8.     All costs and benefits used in the analysis are expressed in constant prices of March 1997. The conversion from financial
to Economic prices was calculated at the Bank's standard rate of 0.9.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         25
Cozuntry: MOROCCO                                                        Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
B.     Project Implementation
9.     Implementation approach. PAGER is a national rural water and sanitation program with a projected implementation
period of 10 to 15 years. The proposed Project is expected to be parallel-funded by the World Bank, CFD (France), KfW
(Germany), and OECF (Japan) over a three-year period. The project implementation approach used is state-of-the-art
participation. The Project would finance an investment slice (Phase I - US$ 57 million) of the USS 120 million appraised
Program, including about 8 % of total costs for technical assistance (TA) to strengthen national institutions at central and
provincial levels, as well as for promoting participation at the village level and for related health and hygiene education (Annex 2,
Attachment (b) - The Participation Approach).
10.    Target Population. The project would cover 27 priority provinces (out of a country-wide total of 58 rural provinces).
Twelve of these provinces are part of the "BAJ Provinces" (20 provinces were identified as meeting strong poverty criteria, for
the Bank-funded Social Priority Program in support of the Health and Education sectors, also called the 'BAJ Program'). DGH
would work in 20 of the identified priority provinces, ONEP in 15. Eight of the provinces would receive inputs from both, DGH
and ONEP (see Annex 2, Attachment (a) for List of Provinces). In addition, the project would also address selected poverty
pockets of other provinces, to be decided on a case by case basis.
I.    Technoloey choices. The choice of technology will be demand-driven, to the extent possible in view of water
availability and in view of the beneficiaries willingness to pay (WTP). Consequently, the beneficiaries under the DGH component
will be presented with a range of technology options, including handpumps, diesel, solar, wind and electricity driven pumps, as
well as spring-supplied gravity systems. Beneficiaries under the ONEP component have fewer choices: they will either benefit
from a "piquage" (a connection to a regional pipeline) with one or several public fountains (PF), provided the distance to the
regional carrier is within economic range; or, from an ONEP built well or borehole, water storage facility and supply pipeline to
one or several PFs. If individual households choose to have a private water connection, they will cover the entire cost of this
additional investment, plus the regular ONEP tariff that applies for private house connections. Furthermore, households with
private water connections have to be connected to an adequate wastewater (WW) disposal system, i.e. a technically acceptable
ventilated pit latrine, or a piped WW collection and disposal system. Cost and benefits of these additional installations are not
included in this economic analysis. - Though individual choices can not be predicted with the demand approach, the mission has
made assumptions for systems choices, based on local experiences and water availability. These assumptions were the basis for
calculating the costs and benefits of the project.
12.    Unit Costs vary widely between various systems (Section G - Cost Effectiveness, presents detailed unit costs per
system). Average unit costs for systems built by DGH are estimated at DH 1,000 per capita (US$ 105), and DH 835 per capita
(US$ 88) for systems build by ONEP. Overall Program average unit cost is estimated at US$ 95. The difference in cost between
ONEP and DGH is largely due to the fact that ONEP built systems are in most cases based on existing infrastructure investments
("piquage" from regional carriers), hence, a sunk cost, while most of the DGH systems will require significant up-front civil
works.
13.    Beneficiaries: The total number of Program / Project beneficiaries is estimated at about 1.3 million (600,000). About
600,000 (220,000) people are expected to benefit from the DGH component and approximately 700,000 (380,000) from the
ONEP component. Overall, about 40,000 people (included in the number of water beneficiaries) will gain from sanitary
installations, implemented as a result of this project (see para. 14, below).
14.    Sanitation services are largely absent in the rural areas covered by the project. They are practically non-existent in
dispersed villages or population clusters. This means that people defecate in the surrounding nature which is particularly
problematic for women and children (girls) in the Moslem culture. They traditionally can not leave the house during the day,
resulting often in urinary infections, in addition to a severely reduced comfort level. The project would promote the construction
of household latrines, through awareness, health and hygiene campaigns, and would make the availability of an excreta and
wastewater (WW) disposal facility at the household level a prerequisite for a water supply house connection. In addition to
household sanitation, the project would include a pilot component for the construction of block latrines in schools, small-bore
sewers and communal septic tanks for dense populations and perhaps a simple lagoon-type WW treatment, if justified by the
combined agglomeration of people from several villages and the quantity of WW discharged. For the puiy)ose of this economic
analysis, only direct health benefits have been quantified, i.e. the cost of medication saved (ORH units) for .educed incidences of
diarrheal diseases, mostly for children up to age 5. The MPH estimates the cost per medication at DH 31 (US$ 3.30) per case, not
including treatment costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       26
CtQn:ly: MOROCCO                                                       Project Title: Rtural Water Supply and Sanitation
15.    Health aspects. Health benefits of water and sanitation services, other than those described above, are difficult to
quantify. Aside from improving household hygiene, increased institutional capacity and the overall living comfort, one of the
major project objectives is the improvement of public health in rural areas. For the purpose of this economic analysis, the only
quantifiable benefit included in the ERR and NPV ranges, are those linked with the reduction of medication required to treat
diarrheal diseases in children up to age 5 (see pam 14, above). Other major, but not quantified benefits include time saved in
family care (mostly for women, who are usually looking after sick children) which translates into increased productivity;
improved education through better school attendance, due to reduced absenteeism; and the general comfort of well-being (Annex
4, Attachment - Diarrheal Diseases in the Project Area).
C.     Assessment of Project Values
16.    The justification for the proiect is based on quantifiable and non-quantifiable values. The quantifiable values include (i)
water accessibility (cost of water transport), (ii) water security (the cost of building storage space or the high cost of emergency
supplies); (iii) water quality and health (expressed in terms of health impacts), and (iv) the beneficiaries' willingness to pay
(WTP). Values of sanitation services and health impacts are to a large extent overlapping or can not be quantified. Double
counting will be avoided and only those values that are directly linked to medication are quantified.
i)     Water accessibility: The value of labor involved in providing water for households is based on three different
distances of water points from households: (a) less than 250 meters (m); (b) 250 m to 1,000 m; and (c) more than 1,000 m. In
several cases the mission found that water had to be hauled over distances of up to 7 km. The average time used for each one of
the distances is based on best-practice estimates. The cost or value associated with the time was based on three factors, the
medium annual household income in rural areas (DH 25,000 to DH 33,000), the legal minimum agricultural wage daily wage
(DH 45) and on 2,340 hours of work performed per person and per year. These figures are based on a National Household Survey
of 1991 (ENNVM). The weighted average of the value of time spent fetching water per family and per month is DH 66, or about
US$ 7.
Table 2
Distance        By medium monetary    By minimum salary         Medium
expenses             DH/month
DH/month
Oto 250 meters (m)           51                    53                   52
250 to I 000 (m)              61                    63                   62
more than I OOOm              103                   108                 106
weighted average              65                    67                   66
ii)    The value of water security (guaranteeing a regular supply) is based on the values of (i) the cost of irregular
supply and supply interruptions due to local conditions and due to periodic drought conditions; and (ii) the cost of storing water.
Assuming an average use of 4 m3 per family per month (about 15 l/c/d), the risk factor of local, irregular supplies is estimated at
a cost of DH 6.70 / family / month; in case of a drought (drought condition means less than 70 % of average annual rainfall), the
cost is estimated at DH 16.70 / family / month . Rainfall data over the past 60 years indicate that southern populations (Agadir
region) have suffered between 2 and 5 years of drought conditions; northern provinces (Tangier, Fes areas) had I to 3 years of
drought conditions, during that period. Cycles of severe drought are 15 years, but cycles of lesser droughts occur more often,
once every 3 to 5 years (for details see Annex 9 of FAO/CP Preparation Report).



Project Appraisal Docuiment                                                                                       27
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Table 3
Months of water security       2,5           6            10            25
Risk of shortfall DHtmonth      17           40            67            167
Risk of drought DHmonth         42           100          167           417
Size of storage (m3)            10           24            40            100
Cost of storage DH/month        42           62            83            166
iii)    The value of water quality and of health is estimated by the reduction of water borne diseases, i.e. (i) the cost of
medical care (including medication) to cure them, and (ii) the loss of labor due to sickness or in extreme cases, death. To
estimate these values is difficult, because of (a) unreliable health statistics, including unreported cases (see also paras. 15 and 16,
above); (b) actual cost of family care time for sick children, due to the diversion of time by family caretakers (mostly women)
during the illness, and (c) an overlap of health benefits due to health education and installations for sanitary excreta and
wastewater disposal. For the purposes of this report, only identifiable medication costs for diarrheal diseases of children (up to
age 5) will be quantified. According to the MPH, the cost per Oral Rehydration (ORH) unit is DH 10; the cost per treatment
averages DH 31 (US$ 3.30) per case. Other health benefits are described qualitatively only. No monetary value will be attached
to these quality variables.
17.    The value of sanitation services. As with water quality, the quantifiable value of sanitation installations and health
education is based on the reduced cost for health services, as a result to improved public health. For the purpose of this report, the
quantifiable sanitation values are combined with those of water quality and health, i.e. they are reflected in the saved costs from
the reduced quantities of medication needed, due to fewer cases. Statistics of diarrheal disease reduction in children as a result of
improved water, sanitation and health/hygiene education services have not been carried out in Morocco. Monitoring and
evaluation activities planned under this project, are expected to provide the MPH with solid statistics and trends on the relation
between water supply and sanitation services and health. However, as indicated by worldwide experience, much of the success of
the project will depend on the effectiveness of health and hygiene education, accompanying the implementation of water supply
and sanitation services. In Morocco these education and awareness services have been weak, and in many rural areas virtually
non-existent. Moroccan statistics also indicate that the simple provision of 'safe' water and sanitation services, has a minimal
impact on health improvement. Therefore, the mission's qualified assumptions, and based on experience elsewhere in the world
(notably a similar rural water and sanitation project in Bolivia), are that one year after project implementation, diarrheal diseases
in children (below 5 yrs.) will be reduced by 50%. This rate is expected to increase in time, as health and hygiene behaviors
change, when education and awareness take hold.
18.    Institutional strengthening has a direct cost (TA component) but a non-quantifiable long-term benefit. At the central and
provincial levela, TA would support DGH and DRH/DPTP in strengthening their capacity to assess, implement and monitor rural
water supply and sanitation programs. It would help improve communications - notably closing the feedback-loop - between
DGH and its regional and provincial branches, the offices of DRH. At the local level, TA would notably support the different
DRH/DPTP involved in the project, by building and sustaining Mobil Participatory Teams (MPT) at the provincial levels. These
teams would be in charge of mobilizing the villages through campaigns and awareness seminars to 'participate' in the project.
This component would include assistance and advice in the selection of water and sanitation service levels / systems, training of
maintenance workers, health / hygiene education and the formation of Water User Associations (WUA), or another acceptable
Management Structure (MS). After project implementation, the MPTs would monitor the project results on behalf of DRH/DPTP,
in view of modifying project designs and approaches in the future, if necessary. The long term impact of the MPTs is expected to
be highly beneficial, in as much as they would contribute significantly to the sustainability of the individual systems, hence, of
the project. Local level TA may, in some cases, also help improve project preparation and management capacities of the WUAs
and rural communes, the ultimate owners of the village water supply systems (a rural commune has typically the administrative
responsibility for a number of small villages).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       28
Country: MOROCCO                                                        Project Tiitle. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
D.     Project Costs
19.    Water Supply Investments. The proposed financing for the project is structured like a line of credit, whereby the annual
investment program for the following year (July 1 to June 30) has to be agreed between the government and the Bank by March
31 of each project year. The project is demand-driven and the potential beneficiaries determine the water supply mode in
accordance with their needs and WTP. The project foresees about ten different water supply systems, ranging from simple wells
equipped with handpumps to deep boreholes with diesel pumps . The investment costs vary from one system to another.
Therefore, costs for each type of system that may be used in the project can only be estimated. Sanitation Investments consist
mostly of local inputs (civil works and local materials). Equipment, in general, will be imported, while civil works is a local cost.
Pipes may also be supplied locally. Technical Assistance is a mixed (foreign / local) expenditure, with the bulk being a local item:
the support for the MPTs (Annex 2 - Project Costs).
20.    Operation and Maintenance costs vary in accordance with water supply systems. Estimates range from 3 percent of
investment costs (handpumps) per year to 8 percent for diesel pumps. While at the outset, the handpump would appear to be the
most attractive choice from a cost point of view, the mission found that in most places in Morocco it is not the preferred option.
The reasons differ, but mainly because water yields are limited, and the water is usually at depths which are stretching the
handpumps capacity and require considerable pumping efforts. At the other extreme is the solar pump which appears to be quite
popular, especially with the southern populations. While investment costs are only slightly higher than those for diesel pumps,
O&M tends to be sporadic and expensive, when high cost items, such as the electric-pump and the solar panels need to be
replaced, about every 5 or 12 years respectively.
E.     Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
21.    The Economic Rate of Return was calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of household water supply and
sanitation services over a thirty-year period (expected life of the major project components - civil works and pipes) with and
without the project. Costs and benefits were discounted at the Bank's standard rate of 10 %. The ERR ranges between 10 % and
15 %. The higher rate is applicable if the project meets its objective of reaching only the 25 % of the worst-off population. If the
target population extends, however, to the 40 % worst-case population, the ERR declines to about 10 %.
22.    The Net Present Values (NPV) was calculated by accumulating net benefits, discounted at 10 %  over a 30 year period.
The NPV for the proposed Project (Phase I) ranges between US$ 15.5 million (25 % of worst-off populations) and zero with 40
% of worst-off populations targeted.
23.    Working papers provide details of the economic calculations.
F.     Cost Recovery
24.    At present, water supply in rural areas is for the most part not organized. The concept of cost recovery is largely
unknown. There is no formal tariff system, except in those cases where either ONEP has taken over the supply through a
"piquage" with public fountain(s) and a 'gardien gerant' (local manager), or where, at the initiative of DRH, an NGO or other
organization, village or water user associations (WUA) have been formed around a public water supply system and where water
services are actually 'managed'. These cases, according to mission estimates, cover about 20 % over all rural water supply
services. They usually recover O&M, but no replacement costs.
25.    ONEP charges the local manager a subsidized rate of DH 5.6/m3, while water is resold for DH 10 to DH 15 per m3. The
difference is the manager's income. He is also responsible for minimal maintenance work and cleaning of the fountain. ONEP
intervenes with more extensive repairs. ONEP's country-wide average production cost is about 50%  higher than its preferred
tariff for the PFs. The subsidy is covered by a nationwide solidarity tax (taxe de solidarite) of DH 0.2/m3 which is levied on all
urban water supply. Hence, ONEP 'recovers' its full cost.
26.    Existing Village WUAs, or similar organizations, charge on average between DH 3 and DH 5 per m3 which aim at
covering O&M costs, but do not allow to create a fund for major repairs or renewal of the system. In cases of major repairs, the
WUA organizes a special collection among the villagers to get tUie system fixed. This is a further indication that in case of need
the WTP is relatively high. But the concept of 'planning' or 'prevention' by paying more when water is readily available to build
up a reserve, does basically not exist under current traditions. Within the project, at an initial stage, the full cost for O&M would
be recovered. At a later stage, it is expected that the awareness and education campaigns of the MPTs will bring about a
behavioral change that will eventually lead to full - or close to full - cost recovery through user charges.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    29
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
G.     Cost-effectiveness
27.    Per capita investment costs depend on the type of system built and on the number of people it will serve. Examining past
investment, the appraisal mission found costs as high as USS 800 per capita for rural water supply systems. Per capita investment
costs under the proposed project would be substantially lower. Following are typical average per capita unit costs:
i)     Water Supply:
- handpumps:                  US$ 28
- rehab. of existing systems  US$ 40
- well or borehole equipped
with electric / diesel pumps  US$ 110
- renewable energy sources
(solar- wind driven)        US$ 150*
- 'piquages' - ONEP owned
public fountains            US$ 120
- independent ONEP system     US$ 160*
*/     Under the project, these costs will have to be reduced to a maximum of US$ 125 per person..
&M costs are estimated to range from 3 % (handpump) to 8 % (deep borehole with diesel pump) per year of initial
investment costs, resulting in an average NPV of 60 % of initial investment costs (discounted at 10%).
ii)    Sanitation:
- simple ventilated latrines  US$  13
- small diameter WW collection
system w/communal septic
tank                        US$ 250
- simple lagoon-type WW
treatment system (not incl.
WW collection)              US$  77
- block latrine for schools
w/ septic tank & water supply
per unit US$ 10,000         US$  50
O&M costs are estimated at 3 % to 5 % per year of initial investment costs.
28.    Overall average per capita investment costs for the water supply component are US$ 95; and US$ 92 for the sanitation
component.
H.     Fiscal Impact
29.    The project's direct fiscal impact are the gains from duties and taxes. They are estimated at US$ 6.7 million, calculated
over the life of Phases I and 11 as the accumulated difference between the financial and the economic costs, discounted at the
Bank's standard rate of 10 %. In the short run the impact may be minimal or even negative, as the cost of project expenditures
may outweigh immediate government revenues (Attachment 6 - Fiscal Impact).
30.    To minimize the impact on the government budget, all O&M costs will be borne by the beneficiaries. Appraisal has been
carried out jointly by the World Bank, KfW, CFD and OECF. The government and the four financing partners agreed that 80 %
of project costs would be funded by external grants and loans, and 20 % by local contributions, of which a minimum of 5 % from
the beneficiaries.
31.    In the long-run, improved health and pr.ductivity of rural populations would add to national income growth, which in
turn would also have a positive fiscal impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    30
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tittle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 4
Attachment
MOROCCO - PAGER
Sample List of Provinces
on
MPH Statistics on Diarrheal Diseases in Children
up to Age of 5 in 1995
Provinces             Responsibility        Diarrh.                ORH Units             Total
DGH / ONEP            Cases 1/              used                   Cost 2/
DH ('000)
El Jadida             DGH                    30,527                91,082                910,820
Ouarzazate            DGH/ONEP               37,277                83,824                838,240
Safi                  DGH                    31,069                96,477                964,770
Sidi Kacem            DGH/ONEP               30,133                95,891                958,910
Tata                  DGH                    9,091                 31,206                312,060
Taroudant             DGH/ONEP               37698                 100,003             1,000,030
Al Hoceima            DGH                    18,175                53,469                534,690
Jerada                DGH                    -                      -                      -
Oujda-Angad           DGH                     6,366                19,407                194,070
Azilal                DGH/ONEP               19,563                62,194                 621,940
Khenifra              DGH                    22,828                72,242                722,420
Beni Mellal           DGH/ONEP               32,627               101,523               1,015,230
Kihouribga            DGH/ONEP               17,095                48,665                486,650
Essaouira             ONEP                   26,636                81,553                 815,530
Marrakech             ONEP                    3,813                13,465                134,650
S.Y, Ben Ali          ONEP                   15,614                55,278                552,780
Boulemane             ONEP                   13,072                38,237                382,370
Fes-Jdid              ONEP                    6,728                30,252                302,520
Sefrou                ONEP                   14,511                47,474                474,740
Nador                 ONEP                   20,600                86,765                 867,650
Errachidia            ONEP                   29,787                99,474                 994,740
Meknes                ONEP                  36.426                148.788               1.487,880
Total                                      421.938              1.357 266              13.572-660
I/ reported cases; cases which have received private care are not reported, but estimated at 40 %; cases which have received no
treatment at all are not reported either, but estimated at 25 % to 35 %.
2/ Unit cost per Oral Rehydration(ORH) unit is DH 10 (1995 price); the cost of one treatment is estimated at about DH 31, not
including the cost for medical and family care.
-      Total cost for medication (ORH) for registered cases in 1995 in Project area:  DH 13,572,660
-      plus 40 % for est. private care (ORH only)                         Dl 5.429.064
Total                                                              DH 20.394.458
(USS 2.1 million)
The proposed project aims at a 50 % reduction of diarrheal diseases to be reflected on the population covered by the project This
results in an average of DH 1.24/person! year savings for all project beneficiaries&



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            31
Country: MOROCCO                                                           Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 5
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Financial Summary
Phase I
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
Total                              Total
ProjetCoss(in million US$)
Investment Costs                               57
Recurrent Costs                                                                    34
Total                                       57                                  34
Financing Sources (% of total
,roject costs)
IBRD/IDA                                       18
Co-financiers                                  62
Government
Central                                     15
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries                        5                                   100
Total                                       100                                 100
1/ Recurrent costs are in present value terms, discounted at 10% to the first year of operation, equal to an average of about 60 %
investment costs.



Project Appraisal Docuznent                                                                                   32
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tuitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 6
Morocco - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EPocuremin
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the project will be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, using standard bidding documents and contract forms agreed with the Bank. Contract
thresholds, modalities, and Bank financing ratios are indicated in Tables A, B, and C of this Annex. Consultants will be
selected in accordance with Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, January 1997, using standard contract forms
agreed with the Bank. Most of project implementation is highly decentralized with small works contracts scattered in
rural areas. These would not be of interest to foreign bidders and would be procured following NCB procedures that are
satisfactory to the Bank.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements against works contracts exceeding $750,000 equivalent, goods contract exceeding S400,000, and
consultants' contracts exceeding $100,000 for firms and S50,000 for individual will be fully documented. For all other
expenditures, disbursements could be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs
will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by project implementing agencies (DGHI and ONEP) and made
available to the Bank staff during supervision.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount up to US$ 500,000 has been agreed, for expenditures incurred after July 1,
1997 and before the date of the Loan Agreement.
Special account:
To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account in Dirham will be established in the Borrower's General
Treasury. The authorized allocation of S 1,200,000 will be limited to $750,000 until the aggregate withdrawals from the
loan account reach $3,000,000. The SA will be replenished on a monthly basis or when at least one third of the
balance has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first. Documentation requirement for replenishment applications will
follow the procedures outlined in above paragraph. In addition, monthly bank statements of the SA reconciled will
accompany all replenishment requests.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    33
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Phase 1)
(in USS million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB               NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Works
Village drinking water works                     10.5                    35.2            45.7
(8.4)                                   (8.4)
Household latrines                                                        4.0             4.0
Block latrines                                   0.3                                      0.3
(0.2)                                  (0.2)
Lagoon-type treatment plant,                     0.5                      0.3             0.8
small-bore sewerage collection                  (0.4)                                   (0.4)
and communal septic tanks
2. QGodz
Vehicles and equipment        0.6                                          0.2            0.8
(0.5)                                                      (0.5)
3. Services / TA
Foreign consultancies                                         0.1         0.1             0.2
(0.1)                      (0.1)
Local consultants                                             0.4         0.2             0.6
(0.4)                      (0.4)
Training (MTPs)                                                           4.6             4.6
4. Miscellaneous
ITtal                      0.6                11.3          0.5        44.6           57.0
(0.5)             (9.0)        (0.5)          0           (10.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Amounts may not add up due to rounding



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 34
Couentry: MOROCCO                                                   Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value         Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)             Method                 Prior Review
1. Works
up to 3,000,000        NCB                    First two if less than
$400,000, all those above
and including $750,000.
greater than 3,000,000    ICB                 All
2. Goods
up to 50,000           LS                     None
50,001 to 400,000      NCB                    None
400,001 to 500,000     IS                     None
above 500,000          ICB                    All
3. Services
Individual consultants    up to 50,000        Local                  None
Consultant firm        up to 200,000          Local                  None
Individual consultants    greater than 50,000  International         All
Consultant firn        greater than 200,000   International          All
4. Miscellaneous



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    35
Country: MOROCCO                                                      Project Tiitle: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                           Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
Civil works                                    7.2                    80% of eligible
expenditures
Goods                                           1.5                   100% of foreign
expenditures, 100 %
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs), and 80%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally.
TA and Training                                0.3                    100%
Unallocated                                    1.0
Total 1 0.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        36
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Annex 7
Morocco - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ 1,000)                          Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
(excludes FAO assistance to GOM)                         300                    292.7
B. Project Schedule                                     Plnned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                12                     12
(from concept review - up to appraisal)
First Bank mission                                       2/96                    2/96
Appraisal mission departure                           2/17/1997               2/17/1997
Negotiations                                            6/1997                  7/10/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          10/1997                  3/1998
Prepared by: DGH, ONEP, Sanitation Division, Ministry of Interior
Preparation assistance: World Bank - FAO / CP
Bank staff who worked on the project: Messrs. Sinha Tm, Koenig, Bichara, Gress, Stier and Ms.Gad.
Peer reviewers:                   Ms. Jennifer Sara, Mr. Robert Roche
Useful inputs were received from:    Messrs. Calegari, Ezzine, and Vaurs
C. Supervision Plan:
Since the initial stages of the project implementation are crucial for the success of the project, the Bank will
follow the Project very closely, with three supervision missions in the frst year, and at least two
supervisions per year in the second, third and fourth year.
Resource requirements are as follows:       Staff weeks      USS (1.000)
Year 1                                       22                88
Year 2                                       18                72
Year 3                                       15                60
Year 4                                       12                48



Project Appraisal Docimzent                                                                                       37
Country: MOROCCO                                                         Project Title: Rural Water Stupply and Sanitation
Annex 8
Morocco - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Documents in the Project File
A.      Project Implementation Plan
Programme d'Approvisionnement Groupe en Eau Potable des Populations Rurales, Rapport de Preparation.
Texte Principal
Document de travail 1.   Ressources en eau
Document de travail 2.   Demande en eau Potable
Document de travail 3.   Description Technique
Document de travail 4.   Aspects Sanitaire
Document de travail 5.   Approche participative
Document de travail 6.   Organisation
Document de travail 7.   Circuits Financiers
Document de travail 8.   Analyse financiere et couts
Document de travail 9.   Analyse economique
Document de travail 10.  Environment
Document de travail 11.  Plan d'actions
B.     Bank Staff Assessments
i  Pre-appraisal BTO Report and Aide-Memoire
i  Appraisal BTO Report and Aide -memoire
i   Working paper on technical Aspects of Water
e   Working Paper on technical Aspects of Sanitation
e  Working Paper on Participation
i  Working Paper on Economic aspects



Statuis of Bank Grouip Operations in Morocco
IBRD  Loanis and IDA  Credits in thc Operatioius Portfolio
As of 30-Selp-97
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID    Credit      Year              Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                           IORD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number ot Closed Loans/credits, 123
Activy Loana
MA-PB-5523   IBRD42310   1998   FOC                                MUNICIPAL PFNANCE II           35.00       0.00            0.00        35.00
MA-PE-5523    IBRD42311   1998  FPC                                MUNICIPAL FINANCE II           35.00       0.00            0.00        34.74
MA-PE-38978   IBRD40910   1997   GOVER14RNT OF MOROCCO             PSI III-VOC TRO,               11.50       0.00            0.00        11.50
MA-PE-38976  IBgD40911   1997   GOVERNMEN' OF MOROCCO              PSD III-VOC TRG.               11.50       0.00            0.00        10.22
MA-PE-43725  IBRD41280   1997   ONCP                               RAILWAY RBSTR & PRIV           42.50       0.00            0.00        42.50
MA-PE-43725   IBRD41281   1997   ONCP                              RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV           42.50       0.00            0.00        36.68
MA-PE-41303   IBRD39351   1996   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO             EMERa. DROUGIHT RECOV          50.00       0.00            0.00         6.65
MA-PE-42414   180O40260   ISS6   GOVT OF HOPOCCo                   COOR/W  SOC1iA  PRO            28.00        0.00           0.00        27.50
MA-PE-42415   18RD40250   1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   SPI - HEALTH                   68.00       0.00            0.00        65.50
MA-PE-5501    IBRD40240   1996   GO. OF MOROCCO                    SPI - EDCATION                 54.00       0.00            0.00        54.00
MA-PE-5503   IBRD40100   1996   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                 SEN.& WATER REUSE 11           40.00       0.00            0.00        39.81
MA-PE-5489   1IRD39010''  1995   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SECONDARY ROADS                57.60       0.00            0.00        57.60
MA-PE-5435    IBRD36640   1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP           WATER SUPPLY V                128.00        0.00           0.00       110.07
MA-PE-5435    I8RD36650   1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONeP           WATER SUPPLY V                 32.00        0.00           0.00        27.56
MA-PE-5486   IBRD36620   1994   CNCA                               NATIONAL RURAL FINAN          100.00        0.00          50.00        28.99
MA-PE-5493    IBRD376SO   1994   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   ASIL II                       121.00        0.00          61.00        14.21
MA-PE-5499    IBRD36880   1994   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   IRR. AREAS AGR. SERVICES       25.00        0.00           5.00        16.51
MA-PE-5504    I3RD36470   1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                ENVIRONMENr MANAGEMENT          6.00        0.00           0.00         4.86
MA-PE-5438    IBRD35570   1993   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                TELECOM.RESTRUCTURIN          100.00        0.00          11.00        31.70
MA-PE-5462   IBRD35870   1993   GOVERNMENT                         SECOND LSI IMPROVEMENT        215.00        0.00          52.00       110.78
MA-PE-5514    IBRD36100   1993   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   LAND DEVELOFMENT               66.00        0.00           0.00        51.81
MA-PE-5517   IBRD36170   1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC                 MUNICIPAL FINANCE I           100.00        0.00           0.00        18.84                4
MA-PE-5433    IBRD32830   1991   GOVT. OF MOROCCO                  PORT  SECTOR                   33.00        0.00           5.00         8.09
KA-PE-5433    IBRD32840   1991   GOVT. OF MOROCCO                  PORT  SECTOR                   99.00       0.00            0.00         9.79
MA-PE-5460    IBRD32950   1991   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO             BASIC EDUCATION               145.00        0.00                       40.18                5
MA-PE-5495   IBRD33660   1991   MOROCCAN BANKS                     FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV           29.50       0.00            0.00        16.49
MA-PE-5495    IhRD33710   1991   MOROCCAN BANKS                    PINANCIAI. SBCTOR DBV           9.50       0.00            2.62          .05
MA-PE-5495    IBRD33670   1991   MOROCCAN BANKS                    FINANCIAL SECrOR DEV           19.50        0.00           0.00         1.18
MA-PF-5437    IHRD31560   1990   GOVERNMKWr                        FORAST-RY 11                   49.00        0.00           0.00        10.59
MA-PE-5440    19RD31710   1990   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                HUEA1:Il 6ECIUR INVESr        104.00        0.00           0.00        16.06
Total                                                                                          1,857.10        0.00         246.62       939.46
pt ivse LQoan,      LndLoan,               TAt-I
Total Disbursed (IORD and IDA)t               659.42           5,426.14           6,087.56
of which has been repaid:                25.88          2,669.89           2,695.77
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             1,584.59           2,603.00           4,387.59
Amount sold                    I                0.00              20.11              20.11
Of which repaid             a                0.00              20.11              20.11
Total Undisbureed              a              939.46              37.41             976.87
Gt(icrated by lbte Operations lilforlnation SystcM (OIS)



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                                               39
County: MOROCCO                                                    Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Saitation
ANNEX 9
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1980                  SOMIFER                 0.00    2.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.35    0.00    0.00
1987/90               CIH                    28.28    0.00    0.00    2.17   28.28    0.00    0.00    2.17
1987/93               SETAFIL                 3.01    1.20    0.00    0.00    3.01    1.20    0.00    0.00
1990                  ENNASR                  .99    0.00    0.00    0.00    .99    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/94               Ciments du Maroc        5.38    0.00    0.00    2.24    5.38    0.00    0.00    2.24
1993                  INTERFINA               0.00    3.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.23    0.00    0.00
1994/96               Mediafinance            0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00
1995                  Attijari                0.00     .49    0.00    0.00    0.00    .26    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  37.66    8.43    0.00    4.41   37.66    8.20    0.00    4.41
Approvals Pending Commitment
lQRn  E=        OQusi  EPrts
Total Pending Commitmnent:         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
t  t .. : '.H: :-: - :: : :::: -  -: ---.......................                                 .............................                                                       ..........................'.o.o.O..... o 
i   .........................      ...... ................                                     .......
~~~~............                                                                                                                    ....................... .        . . .
. . . . . . .   .. . . ...........    .,, ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ..
t                                       .   {.    |   4   t  g Fs * tg ~~~~~~~~................................................. .... .... .. .                                                                       ............. .........
o    C               ,.,,.,.   .,,,..,..             ~~~~       ~~~~~...|......  ,..............                                                                                ......t'    ''' '''    X 1  .                   ......
tg~~~~~~~~~ .                                . . . . . . . .......$..o...  .                                 ... .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 coW-a0



f'rojectAppraisal Document                                                                                                                          41
Country: MOROCCO                                                                               Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
ANNEX 10
Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(X change)                                                                         a
Consumer prices                               7.9      7.7        6.1      3.0                                  0
Implicit GOP deflator                         1.S      8.4        7.2      2.4
n eOf      t     e 
(X6 oGOP7                                                                          e       ,                            I 
Curmnt revenue                                  .     20.7       23.9     22.0            I      n    1    00    0      0
Current budget balance                                .2.4        1.4      1.9              -GCP o    e. ---CPI
Overall surplus/deflcit                         .     -9.6       -5.7     -3.2
TRADE
(m,urc-,s US)176                                     136        136       1ow        xport ad Import levels (mhl. US$)
Tomal exports (fbc)                                  2,283     6,676     6,944      1er0e
Cther agricuture                              .      603      1,457    1,468
X Phosphorus                                         479       291       313
Manufactures                                  .      478      1,600    1.690       O      *m
Total imports (cif)                                   3921  9,936  9,707  4ieull.
Food                                                 507      1,332      916
Fuel and energy                               .    1,074      1,184    1,203       2A.0
Capttal goods                                        649      1,854     1,904
ExportpriceiIndex (1987=100)                   ..       89       137       139            90  91  12  s2  04  0s  09
Import price index (1987e100)                          104       131       131                  sUxPoma    aimpows
Terms ot trade (1987=100J                      .        a 8      104       106i
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     136       133       133
(millions US.V                                                                      Current aeceunt baesisc to GOP rto (%
Exports of goods and services               1,997    3.278     8,892    9.433
Imports of goods and services               2.939    4,402    11339    10,991                         *    I
Resource balance                            .942   -1,124    -2,447    -1,559                                    * 
Net inoomne                                   -8     -766    -1.318    -1,211 1
Net currantt ransfers                        482    1,064      2260      2.352
Current account baelnc,e                                                             4.
before official capital trarnfers         -548      -826    -1,505      J418     .6
Financing items (net                         519      845      2468        485
Changes in net reslves                        28       .19      983        -48     4
Memso:__                                                                                                 __
Reserves including gold (mill USS)           438      345      3,872    4,050
Conversion rate (JocaslW.SS                   4.1     10.1        8.5      8.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1376  130    136   13
(miIIils US.l                                                                       Ceomposeln of total debt. 1936 (mill US$)
Total debt outstanding and dsbursed         2,353   15,753    22445    20,747
IBRD                                       244    1,288      3.966     3,732                      G     A
IDA                                         31       43        33        32                            3732 2
Total debt service                           172    1,429      3,542    3,094            5119                     3
IIRD                                        33      167       630       599
IDA                                          0        1          2        2
Composition of net resource flows                        1
Cfficial grants                             26      416        100                                           3207
Ofical ceditors                            253      412       .284
Private creditors                          591      196        132     -625
Foreign direct investment                    0       20       290       226                        E
Portfolio equty                              0        0        150      118                        cs
World Dank prgrmm
Comrnritrfts                                33      379        433      213       A-IDRO                     E.- alin
Oisbunnemnts                               111      307        426      380       8-IDA    D^r Oe..mulde0and  p. prtva
Pnncrpal rmpayments                         18       87        350      342       C.IMP                      G - Sheorim
Net fows                                    93      220         76       38
Interest payment                            1S       81       282       258
Net transfers                               78      139       -206     -221
Developrent Economics                                                                                              8=22l97



IBED 28733
f~~~~~~~none  gin)'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RCRT PROELJECT--                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.                    n0: i:~ oruclsLoi \        N
''1~~~~~~~~~ . B, .... , (,                                                     A8c  S 
'VJ   1997
I>'                Stoghen        >~~~~64'~"4"> >-pNiqrodT6Wdr~                                ITRAIONLBUORE
TAN-TAN                                                                                                                  INTERNATbA  IONLBUDRE
-'  roekeck                           -r,- -                                        (APRXIMTE)28
ttOUJ4   ~~sckoooo    T h4au              K\',          '  i>\
NW">''                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY19



