Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19874-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.9 MILLION (US$13.65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Albanian LEK
LEK1= US$ 0.00769
US$ 1 =LEK 130
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
FISCAL YEAR: WORLD BANK
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy
CQ    -       Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications
DC      -     Direct Contracting
GoA     -     Government of Albania
EBRD  -       European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EIB     -     European Investment Bank
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Return
ERRP  -       Emergency Road Repair Project
EU     -      European Union
EUR   -       Euro
GPN   -       General Procurement Notice
GRD   -       General Roads Directorate
HGV   -       Heavy Goods Vehicles
IBRD   -      International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA    -      International Development Association
IS     -      International Shopping
LCS   -       Least-Cost Selection
MoT   -       Ministry of Transport
NBF   -       Not-Bank-Financed
NCB   -       National Competitive Bidding
NPV   -       Net Present Value
NS     -      National Shopping
PIP    -      Project Implernentation Plan
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
SA     -      Special Account
SOE   -       Statement of Expenses
SPN    -      Specific Procurement Notice
TOR   -       Terms of Reference
UNDP  -       United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director/Manager:    Ricardo A. Halperin/Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leaders:    Cesar Queiroz/Elena Kastlerova, ECSIN



ALBANIA
EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       5
3. Benefits and target population                                                      5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            9
2. Financial                                                                          10
3. Technical                                                                          10
4. Institutional                                                                      11
5. Social                                                                             I1
6. Environmental assessment                                                           11
7. Participatory approach                                                             11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     12
2. Critical risks                                                                     13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     13



G. Main Credit conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           13
2. Other                                                                              14
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          14
I. Compliance with Bank P'olicies                                                        14
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          15
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    17
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         18
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   19
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               20
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       24
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     33
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       34
Annex 9: Statement of Loains and Credits                                                 35
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            37
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy on Road Maintenance Strategy                      39
Annex 12: Assessment of the Capacity of the GRD to Conduct Procurement under the Project  43
MAP(S)
IBRD 30535



ALBANIA
Emergency Road Repair Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: November 10, 1999                            Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartrnann       Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P068853  .                             Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)   Theme(s): TRANSPORT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan          Z Credit        O Grant        ED Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 13.65
Proposed Terms: O To be defined   D2 Multicurrency O Single currency
Standard Variable O Fixed          a] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:                40
Commitment fee:                   0.50% on undisbursed credit balances beginning 60 days after signing less any
waiver
Government                                                       0.81           0.00           0.81
IBRD
IDA                                                              4.10           9.55          13.65
Total:                                                           4.91           9.55          14.46
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
Other Agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
F~Y          2O      -_            T    3:
Annual      2.0          6.3          3.3         2.0
Cumulative     2.0           8.3         11.6        13.6
Project implementation period: February 2000 - August 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/2000  Expected closing date:  02/28/2003
OCS PAD F-m O,b. 9, 199



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project is an emergency operation aimed at restoring the serviceability of the main
route connecting the Adriatic Sea (Port of Durres) to Kosovo, and of the Berat-Corovode
national road. Both of these roads were damaged by heavy refugee convoys, humanitarian aid
and NATO vehicles during the Kosovo crisis.
The single objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Albania in restoring
the serviceability of these two roads.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicator will be the number of km of roads repaired compared to the
project plan.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annox 1)
Document number: 18161                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/98
Albania is a country of 29,000 square km and a population of 3.4 million inhabitants with per
capita income of about US$800. Agriculture generates 56 percent of GDP, and most of the
population live in rural areas. Since 1993, the Government has been carrying out a program of
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms with IMF and World Bank support.
The project is not listed in the CAS as a priority operation as it responds to a regional emergency
that occurred after the last CAS discussion. However, the project supports the CAS goal of
poverty reduction as it benefits the poorest region of the country by improving access to markets.
While the poverty impact of this project may not be directly measurable, it will minimize th,,
adverse effect on the rural poor living in these areas, whose mobility has been affected by t:le bad
condition of the roads. It will also provide employment for them in the areas where the roa ds are
to be repaired. Further, it supports the environmental and social objectives of the CAS by
repairing environmental infrastructure damage caused by the heavy traffic relating to the K,isovo
crisis, and supports the CAS goal of limiting the deterioration of the existing assets. Morec ver,
the CAS goal of sustainable private sector growth is supported by engaging local contracto:s and
technical service providers in the project implementation process.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Albania's road infrastructure is in very poor condition from years of neglect, in spite of three IDA
projects in this sector. The Rural Roads Project, aimed at the improvement of Albania's 12,000
km of rural roads, is still under implementation, as is the National Roads Project, intended to
construct additions to the 3,221 km main road network. The need for this emergency project
became apparent after the Kosovo conflict, during which a large number of refugees,
humanitarian aid and NATO convoys put an enormous strain on the Durres (main port) - Morin
(border with Kosovo) road and the Berat - Corovode road. Nearly 500,000 refugees entered
Albania through the Morin border crossing, continuing through Kukes to the southern parts of
Albania (Shkoder, Tirana, Durres, Berat, and Corovode), and to the Berat-Corovode area where
two refugee camps were located. Simultaneously, humanitarian aid and NATO heavy vehicles
brought through Durres port and Tirana airport were transported to the refugee camps, and later,
to Kosovo as the refugees returned to their homes, increasing the daily traffic from 500 to as
much as 15,000 vehicles. The intensive heavy traffic during the refugee crisis has caused these
roads, designed for bearing capacity of 2 tons and built using poor standards and technology in
the early seventies, to deteriorate to a critical condition. There are road sections on these routes
that have lost all or most of the asphalt surfacing, decreasing the average speed to 25-30 kmn/hour,
and even lower for the obsolete vehicle fleet during bad weather conditions. The present traffic
composition remains heavy, including a number of five-axle trailers and semi-trailers. By the time
that the need for improvement of these two roads became apparent, IDA resources made available
for the Rural Roads (750.0 km of rural roads rehabilitated) and National Roads (33.0 km
constructed and 13.0 km rehabilitated) projects were already fully committed.
The Bank strategy for addressing this need, discussed and agreed with the Government, involves a
two-tier approach that focuses in the short term (no more than three years) on urgent road repairs
for a limited number of roads damaged as the result of the Kosovo crisis, and continues in parallel
with the preparation of a regular road investment operation that will support sector reforms and
provide for major road rehabilitation affecting the entire network. Specifically, the two tier
approach would include:
Short-term priority investment program
- urgent repair works aimed at restoring serviceability of two critical roads; and
- technical support for project implementation, works supervision and preparation of a
regular investment operation.
Medium- to long-term investment program
- rehabilitation of existing road infrastructure; and
- imprdved policy framework and institutional restructuring for better asset management,
including gradual privatization of road maintenance services.
The need for a Medium- and Long-term Investment Program, including institutional restructuring,
has been discussed and agreed with the Government. An agreement on the basic outline of the
restructuring, presented in the Government's policy letter, was received by the Bank on
November 3, 1999 (attached as Annex 11).
- 3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project is focused on repairing the parts of the road network most damaged by the Kosovo
crisis, with emphasis on the emergency need to restore access to markets for the rural poor in
these areas. It will also support the longer range issue of restructuring the road maintenance
organizations by providing funds for preparation of a follow-on project. These longer terrrm issues
would be addressed through:
- a policy letter from the Government to demonstrate its commitment to the medium-term
strategy and reforms for the sector (attached as Annex 11); and
- implementation, procurement and financial management arrangements aimed at rapid and
effective execution while ensuring due diligence, transparency, and corruption
prevention.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Emergency Road Repair Works to    Highways          11.53       79.7      10.72      78.5
restore 221 km of the national road
network to serviceable condition
2. Goods: Laboratory, Office, and  Highways             0.34        2.4       0.34       2.5
Environmental Mitigation Equipment,
Software and Vehicle
3. Training and Consultants Services:
- Project Related Training, including  Highways         0.11        0.8       0.11       0.8
fimancial and environmental
management, procurement, and relevant
technical issues in road and bridge
design, construction, and maintenance
- Consultant Services for Supervision    Highways        1.03       7.1       1.03       7.5
of Road Works
- Consultant Services for the Operation  Highways       0.16         1.1      0.16        1.2
of the PIU
- Project Audits                   Highways             0.03        0.2       0.03       0.2
- Preparation of design and bidding  Highways           0.12        0.8       0.12       0.9
documents for the second-year program
of works
- Preparation of Durres-Morin Road  Highways            0.57        3.9       0.57       4.2
Feasibility Study
4.



- Preparation of Feasibility Study and   Highways     0.57        3.9      0.57       4.2
First-year design and bidding
documents for a follow-on project
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project)
Total Project Costs                  14.46      100.0     13.65     100.0
Total Financing Required                   14.46      100.0     13.65     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As this project is of an emergency nature, it does not attempt to address long-term economic,
sectoral, or institutional issues and does not include any conditionality linked to macro-economic
or sectoral policies other than the Policy Letter mentioned below. The project would provide
institutional support focused primarily on operations of the PIU and the counterpart staff in the
road maintenance department to perform their tasks during the life of the project.
In order to ensure that the reform process of the sector continues through Government actions as
well as preparation and implementation of the future Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project, the GoA sent to the Bank a Road Maintenance Policy Letter outlining in general terms its
intention to restructure the GRD in a manner consistent with the operation of a market economy.
The program itself includes measures to address four important areas: (i) creating an effective
organizational structure, (ii) establishing a system that assures an adequate level of financing, (iii)
putting in place sound operational procedures, and (iv) adopting good personnel policies.
3. Benefits and target population:
Immediate benefits are the repair of the main road network serving the rural population in the
poorest part of the country. In addition to its impact on the local population, it will improve the
transit transport route from the Adriatic port of Durres through Albania to Kosovo, which is one
of the shortest connections from Kosovo to the Mediterranean sea.
Major benefits expected from the project are as follows:
- restoration of the serviceability of the main link connecting Albania with the northern part of the
Balkans and Northern Europe;
- provision of employment in the construction industry;
- preparation of a regular investment operation that will include restructuring of the road
maintenance sector.
-5 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Bank experience acquired during implementation of one already completed and three ongoing
projects shows that the MoT/GRD absorptive capacity remains rather low. For that reason, and
despite the existence of two PIUs presently working with GRD, the Bank proposed and the
Government agreed to appoint an independent PlU to implement the Project. The Director
General of the GRD will appoint a PIU Director with appropriate qualifications. The PIU
director will hire the PIIJ staff as follows: one engineer to support procurement activities, one
accountant/budget officer, one bilingual secretary, and one driver. The speed of implementation
required to bring the expected benefits of the Project requires expertise in coordination,
supervision, and quality control of road works contracts. To provide the additional management
capability needed to organize, supervise and control implementation of the project, the PI will
be assisted by experienced professionals from a full service consulting firm, including supervising
engineers and a procurement expert.
The PIU will be responsible for overall project management, coordination, and planning including
the preparation of an Action Plan, procurement of design, goods, civil works and consultants
services, financial management and reporting. The PIU will report to and coordinate with the
GRD. Also, the PIU will coordinate, on aspects directly related to the Project, with the
international donor comtnunity participating in the. road sector in Albania in order to assure that
there are no overlaps wilth the activities of other clonors.
Disbursements are expected to be completed within 36 months from the date of effectiveness. To
facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain, and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a project accoumt and a Special Account in US dollars in the
National Bank of Albania, to be managed by the PIU. Establishment of the project account (for
counterpart funds) would be a condition of effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative: Not carrying out an Emergency Road Repair Project and focusing on the
preparation of the Road M\aintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
Reasons for rejection: The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project will not be read' for
implementation before autumn 2000. The main North-South road axis is in dire condition anid is
deteriorating at a rapid rate. Without any immediate support from the international commUii r.y,
the risk to road safety, further deterioration, and eventual impassability of the project roads is
extremely high. This would not only be a major inconvenience for the local and internationaIl
transport of passengers and goods, it would also be a severe road safety risk. The economni v costs
including gradual cut off for a portion of the large population, decline in trade, increase in road
and vehicle operating costs, additional cost of an alternative route, and medical treatment c uld be
substantial. As already discussed in section B.3. cf this PAD, the Emergency Road Repair 'roject
is regarded to be of utmost importance to bridge the gap until the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project can be implemented.
-6 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest SUerIsion
Sedor Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank41nanod projets only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Transportation needs             US$27.0 million,                 S            S
Transport/Infrastructure
Project; cofmancing: US$6.4
million from Kuwait Fund;
completed
Rural Road Network needs         US$33.6 million,                 S            S
Rural Roads Project;
cofmancing: US$16.24 million
from Italy, and US$3.6 million
from GoA; ongoing
National Road Network needs      US$66.0 million, National        S            S
Roads Project; cofmancing:
US$9.0 million from Italy,
US$8.0 million from Kuwait
Fund, US$12.0 million from
EBRD, US$7.0 million from
PHARE, and US$5.0 million
from GoA; ongoing
Durres Port needs                US$23.0 million, Durres Port     S            S
Project; cofmancing: US$5.0
million from OPEC, and
US$1.0 million from GoA;
ongoing
Transport and Trade Facilitation needs US$6.5 million - Albanian
Component of the Regional
Transport and Trade
Facilitation Program in
Southeast Europe; cofmancing
from EU to be determined, and
US$0.4 million from GoA;
planned
Other development agencies
-7 -



National road network: North-South    EIB: EUR22.0 million;
Corridor needs                    Sukth-Durres Project
EU/PHARE: EUR57.8 million;
Vora-Sukth,,
Rrogodzina*.Lushnja,
Tepelena-G,jirokastra-Kavaja
Projects
National road network: East-West   EU/PHARE: EUR20.0 million;
Corridor needs                    Durres-Rrogodzine Project;
EIB: EUR24.0 million;
Rrogodzine-Elbasan Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project desiign:
Bank-wide experience shows that successful implementation of projects of an emergency nature
require: (i) a technically and operationally sound rapid assessment of needs with a well-defined
priority strategy and objectives; (ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (iii)
simplicity in the procurement and disbursement procedures for efficient and rapid component
imnplementation; (iv) clear operational procedures to guide project targeting and component
selection; (v) the need for strong supervision and financial controls at the PIU level; and (vi)
institutional autonomy and freedom from political interference to allow selection and
implementation of components quickly and transparently. Implementation experience in civil
works in Albania has also shown that there should be major emphasis on construction quality
control. It takes into account the lessons learnt form the previous transport projects, but also aims
at more progressive set of reforms.
This experience is reflected in the design of this Project. The project has a simple design,
provision for foreign consultant services to assist in project supervision, including procurer lent,
and emphasis placed on the selection of qualified staff for the newly appointed PIU. Use of one of
the two existing PIUs has also been considered. However, as both PIUs are in charge of pr o jects
still under implementation and the absorptive capacity of GRD is rather limited (Section GC"), the
Bank proposed and GoA agreed to create a new PIU that could dedicate all its time to imp:lement
the project. Also, IDA's experience in working with GRD (and its PIUs) during the three pr evious
projects has been constructive and cooperative and bodes well for the success of this Projei,t.
-8 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GoA has requested that this emergency project be implemented as quickly as possible in view
of the growing danger of isolation of parts of rural Albania. GoA is also aware that to achieve
sustainable sector development, reforms to facilitate efficient service delivery need to be
introduced. Consequently, the GoA has agreed with the Bank on the elements of reform
mentioned in the Policy Letter to be implemented under a follow-on Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Section C2). Another indication of borrower commitment and ownership
was the timely preparation by GRD of the project preparation document, including economic
analysis (using HDM 3 model) of the proposed road works, using its own resources.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has had an active and significant portfolio in Albania, with over US$300 million of ongoing
or planned investments, and has been the primary donor in supporting the reform efforts of the
Government. IDA's leadership role in the donor community was further reinforced by its
management of the crisis that followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes in March 1997. In
response to the Kosovo conflict, IDA has recently approved a US$45 rnillion Structural
Adjustment Credit and a US$30 million Public Expenditure Support Credit.
In the transport sector (amounting to about one third of the Bank/IDA total portfolio in Albania),
the first transport project has been completed, and two roads projects and one port project are
currently under implementation. Through these projects, IDA is supporting a long-term reform of
the transport sector, in agreement with the goals stated in the CAS. While implementing the
above projects, the MoT staff continue to receive training in management (i) to make investment
decisions on the basis of economic criteria, (ii) to further privatize the road construction industry
(including engineering and construction), (iii) to reorganize the MoT, and (iv) to adopt
market-based regulations, taxes, and user charges.
Project preparation has required intensive IDA involvement. Implementation will be monitored
through intensive supervision and will require a high degree of flexibility to be able to adapt to
rapidly changing circumstances. Implementation progress will be formally evaluated
approximately six months after effectiveness, when project implementation should be well
advanced. The Bank's Resident Mission in Tirana is closely involved with project preparation and
will continue this involvement during implementation. The Resident Mission will be available to
speed all decisions and mitigate any delays.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$17.48 million; ERR = 49 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis was carried out be GRD, utilizing the World Bank HDM-III computer
program. Net Present Value was calculated on a cost of capital of 12 percent.
-9-



2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
There are no revenue-earning project entities.
Assessment of Financial Management Systems: See Annex 5
A fully operational PIU consisting of a director, civil engineer, accountant/financial specialist,
office assistant/secretary, and driver will be established within the GRD. As the PIU has not yet
been formed, its financial management capacity could not be assessed, and thus the projec-r has,
for the time being, a 4-C rating fof LACI purposes. The financial management capacity o:Ythe
PIU will be re-assessed by credit effectiveness, as the establishment and staffing of the PIU is
condition of credit effectiveness. In addition, an international supervision consultant/procurement
advisor will be hired for supervising civil works. Legal, procurement, and technical advisers will
be hired on part time basis, as required. The GRD has the overall responsibility for project
management and maintenance of the national road network. Assessment of financial management
systems, including accounting systern, project accounting, internal control, financial reporting,
budgeting and budgetary controls, staffing and auditing arrangements was carried out during
appraisal. A time-bound Action Plan outlining actions to be taken to remedy the situation, anid
financial management reporting format and arrangements for engagement of the auditors were
agreed with the borrower during negotiations. T.he action plan and fornats for project financial
statements are attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Flow of Funds
The proposed IDA Credit of US$13.65 million will be channeled in large part through the Special
Account to be held at the National Bank of Albania. The PIU will be responsible for the
administration of the Special Account, including ;preparation of withdrawal applications and
supporting documentation. Concurrently, a Project Account would be opened at a commercial
Bank acceptable to IDA and managed by the PIU. According to Treasury regulations, funds of
the credit account pass through the Albanian Treasury account in the National Bank of All ania
(acting as fiscal agent). This procedure is similar to that currently followed for the ongoing
projects. Counterpart contribution will be financed from the State budget.
Fiscal Impact:
Credit proceeds are provided to GRD, a governmLent entity, by the Ministry of Finance wil i :no
obligation to repay since GRD does not have any independent sources of revenues from its
operations. Therefore, there will be no direct fiscal irnpact as a result of the Credit except the
increased resources available for road maintenance during the disburesement period.
3. Technical:
GRD is an experienced r oad organization that has carried out extensive road maintenance
activities, including three previously approved IDA-supported projects. In addition, local
consulting and construction companies, developed and strengthened during implementatior of
IDA projects, have now sufficient capacity to undlertake the road repair contracts. There s] ould,
- 1 0) -



therefore, be no major technical issues other than to ensure that quality control is adequately
administered, for which foreign consultants will be engaged.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The executing agency will be GRD, which is responsible for the national road network.
b. Project management:
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be set up within GRD, consisting of five persons with
skills in civil works, contract management, procurement, accounting and financial management.
Civil works will be let on the basis of competitively bid contracts following the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
5. Social:
The project will (i) increase the populations' ability to reach other parts of the country, to have
access to markets and social services; (ii) improve the transit transport route from the Adriatic
port of Durres through Albania to Kosovo, which is the shortest connection from Kosovo to the
Mediterranean; and (iii) provide for employment in the construction industry.
6. Environmental assessment:          Environment Category: B
In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Enviromnental Assessment) this project has been assigned to
"Category B" and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared. Since the
project is an emergency loan, OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance) is also applicable. The
EMP includes, inter alia, results of consultations with affected groups, stakeholders, and
appropriate NGOs. No major environmental issues are anticipated. Since the project objective is
to improve serviceability for about 221 km of existing roads by patching potholes, replacement of
war damaged asphalt portions, improving drainage etc. the main issues are in connection with the
impacts associated with the movement of workers, materials, and equipment to and from the
construction sites (e.g. dust, noise, imnpact on agricultural land etc.). Environmental performance
of asphalt plants and quarrying activities supplying materials to the project will be evaluated as
well as issues of worker safety and health for each of these aspects. In addition to a policy of
doing no harm, opportunities for environmental improvements will also be sought. All these
aspects have been considered in the EMP. The EMP is being cleared with the National
Environmental Agency of Albania. Subsequently, it will be made available for the public review,
and sent to the Bank by November 15, 1999, for clearance.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Because of the emergency nature of the project and the need to process it as quickly as possible,
there was only limited consultation with the rural beneficiary population.
- 1 1 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Road users in general vvill benefit from the project, including farmers and other rural people living
in the vicinity of the roads that will be improved; the population in the Kukes and Corovode
regions will have their access to the country's main centers restored.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project itself is designed to meet an immediate need rather than addressing longer term
issues. Also at the civil works level, the road repairs are designed for rapid implementation rather
than long term sustainability of the roads being repaired. However, sustainability will be
addressed by the assurances that will be required from the Government regarding the follow-on
project that is under preparation, which will include major restructuring of the road maintenance
organizations and introduce improved technology and management techniques that will put future
road maintenance operations on a more sustainable basis than it was in the past.
- 12-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratinh        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Roads selected for repair might not be    N         Road selection was based on the criteria
optimal for improving market access                that improved roads shuld give access to
most people
Poor choices might be made in the         M         Selection of consultants and PIU
selection of consultants, PIU personnel,            personnel (following Bank Procurement
and inefficient utilization of laboratory           Guidelines), and use of laboratory
equipment                                           equipment, will be given close scrutiny
during supervision
From Components to Outputs
Quality of road repairs may be poor       M         Project design includes qualified foreign
consultants to do the supervision
Improved laboratory equipment may not     N         Use of foreign consultants will assure
be utilized to control quality of road              utilization of the laboratory equipment
repairs
Follow-on project may not be              M         A policy Letter from the Government
accompanied by necessary policy and                 supporting sector reforms was received
organizational changes                              by the Bank on November 3, 1999.
Wrong selection of persons for training   N         IDA staff will be involved in selection
could reduce its value                              of persons for training
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Government might delay in selecting PIU director. However, the Government agreed during
negotiations, to appoint the PIU director by November 30, 1999, well before planned Board
presentation.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.    The Borrower will open a Project Account with an initial deposit in local currency of
at least US$50,000 equivalent.
2.    The Borrower will establish and staff a PIU with qualified personnel acceptable to IDA.
3.    The Borrower will establish a financial management system satisfactory to IDA.
- 13 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Conditions:
1.     Satisfactory preparation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as per
requirement of OD 4.01 (January 1999).
2.     Completion of the first year work program design and bidding documents.
3.     Finalization of restructuring of the three transport PIUs (Durres Port, National RoaLds and
Rural Roads Prcjects).
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraLised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The GRD has managed and implemented three other Bank transport projects in Albania. Due to
emergency nature of the project, project preparation and implementation will require IDA
involvement and support. Arrangements to institute basic internal controls and accounting
systems at the PIU will ensure the project satisfies minimum financial management requirements.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
r~~~~~~ .                                                                 7     _
Cesar Queiroz                      Ricarao A. Halpef i n             -Arntraud Hartana (i
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager[Direclor
- 14-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction through  Reduction in travel time along Supervision missions;  Access to markets improves
improving access of rural    two improved roads       Quarterly progress reports   lives of low income Albanians
population to markets
Arrest the rapid deterioration  Deterioration of 220 km of    Supervision missions;  Road deterioration has been.
of the existing road assets    project roads is stopped and   Surveys; Quarterly progress   stopped and roads remain
caused by the Kosovo crisis   average roughness is lowered  reports               passable for at least two next
from above 10 to 6 m/km                               years
Private sector development   Number and size of contracts  Supervision missions;  Use of local contractors for
through use of local contactors awarded to local contractors   Quarterly progress reports    project implementation results
and service providers                                                             in private sector development
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Restore serviceability of two   Reduction of the vehicle  Quarterly progress reports,   Improved access to markets
roads                      operating costs by 10%     supervision missions        will improve living standards
(midterm); 20% (end).                                 of the population in the region
served by the roads
Traffic volume increased by
5% (midterm); 10% (end).
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Roads improved             km of roads repaired: 80   Review of the quarterly     Repair of roads will lead to
(midterm); 220 (end)       progress reports; Supervision  improved market access
missions at appropriate
intervals; Audits
GRD's implementation ability Completed road repairs are of Review of the quarterly  Provision of technical
strengthened and follow-on   good quality and follow-on    progress reports; Supervision  services, lab equipment, and
project prepared           project preparation is adequate missions at appropriate  PIU personnel will result in
intervals; Audits          good quality road repairs
Studies and training       Studies carried out        Review of the quarterly
(staff-weeks): lOsw (midterm), progress reports; Supervision
20sw (end)                 missions at appropriate
intervals; Audits
Training delivered         Review of the quarterly
(staffe-weeks): lOsw       progress reports; Supervision
(midterm), 20sw (end)      missions at appropriate
intervals; Audits
- 15 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Road repairs completed    US$7.35 million            Quarterly reports, supervision Repair of roads will lead to
missions                  improved serviceability
Supervision of road works   IJS$0.75 million        Road supervisors reports,  Good quality control will
effectively carried out                              supervision reports        assure good road repairs
Laboratory and office     IJS$0. 15 million           Quarterly reports and     Improved laboratory
equipment installed                                  supervision missions       equipment will be utilized lo
improve quality control
Project preparation completed UJS$0.50 million       Board approval             Follow-on project will lead to
for follow-on project                                                           long term improvement in
road serviceability
Training completed        US$0. 10 million           Quarterly reports and      Training will lead to improved
supervision missions      road maintenance operatio=s
- 16 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$11.53 million
Road Repair Works: This component will include the emergency repairs to the following road
sections of the national road network, as indicated on the attached map:
- Berat-Corovode Section (US$1.60 million)- Work on this 48 km section will include
patching of potholes, improving drainage, and replacing portions of the asphalt paving, to be let in
two contracts (Berat to Polican- 22 km, and Polican-Corovada- 26 kmn).
- Fushe Kruje- Mamurras-Milot Section (US$1.90 million)- Work on this 30 km
section will include patching of potholes, strengthening of shoulders, improving drainage, and
overlays for some portions of the road, to be let in two contracts (Fushe Kruje-Mamurras- 16 km,
and Mamurras-Milot- 14 kmn).
- Q. Qele-Fushe Arrez Section (US$1.43 million)- Work on this 49 km section will
include leveling of the wearing course, repairing selected concrete works for overpasses, and
waterproofing of structures, to be let in a single contract.
- Fushe Arez-Kukes Section (US$5.40 million)- Work on this 70 km section will include
leveling with crushed material, the application of two layers of Penetration Macadam, and earth
works, ditches and slopes to improve drainage in very mountainous area, to be let in 4 contracts.
- Kukes-Morine Section (US$1.20 million)- Work on this 24 km section will include
leveling of the wearing course and repairing of landslide damage, to be let in one contract.
Project Component 2 - US$0.34 million
Institutional Support - Goods:
Laboratory equipment needed for improved quality control, office and environmental mitigation
equipment, software (including financial management), and vehicle for the PIU.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.59 million
Institutional Support - Consultant Services:
This component will include (i) technical support to GRD for necessary training in project
management, including financial, environmental, procurement, accounting practices, and relevant
technical issues in road and bridge design and construction; (ii) foreign consultants to assist in the
supervision of the civil works component; (iii) consultants for the operation of the PIU, and
preparation of project audits; (iv) consultants for preparation of design and bidding documents for
the second year program of works; (v) foreign consultants to assist in preparing a Durres-Morin
Feasibility Study; and (vi) consultants for the preparation of Feasibility Study and first-year design
and bidding documents for a follow-on project (Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project).
- 17 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Works: Civil Works Corntracts for Repair of the Roads        3.05          7 06         10.11
Durres-Morin and Berat-Corovode
Goods: Laboratory, Office, and Environmental Mitigation      0.05          0 25          0.30
Equipment, Soflware and Vehicle
Project Related Training, including financial and environmental  0.05      0.05          0.10
management, procurement, and relevant technical issues in road
and bridge design and construction
Consultant Services for Supervision of Road Works            0.30          0.60          0.90
Consultant Services for the Operation of the PIU             0.10          0.04    I     0.14
Project Audits                                               0.00          0.03          0.03
Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second year  0.05      0.05          0.10
program of works
Preparation of Durres-M:orin Road Feasibility Study          0.10          0.40          0.50
Preparation of Feasibility Study and First-year design and   0.10          0.40          0.50
bidding documents for a follow-on project (Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project)
Total Baseline Cost                                          3.80          8.88         12.68
Physicai Contingencies                                      0.38          0.88          1.26
Price Contingencies                                         0.15          0.37          0.52
Total Project Costs                4.33         10.13         14.46
irotal Financing Required               4.33         10.13         14.46
Goods                                                        0006            0.28          0.34
Works                                                        3347            8.06         11.53
Services                                                      0.80           1.79          2. 59
_0.1't13
Total Project Costs      4 33          10.13         14.46
Total Financing Required       4.33          10.13         14.<r
All costs are net of taxes
-1 8-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Total Cost of the Road Component (before Contingencies)  US$10.11 million
Net Present Value (based on cost of capital of 12 percent)  US$17.48 million
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)                 49 percent
Main Assumptions:
The economic analysis was carried out by GRD using the World Bank HDM-II computer mode.
Below results showed returns as follows for each road section:
Results
NPV (US$ m) EIRR(%)
Berat-Corovoda                              5.13  83
Fushe Kruje-Mamurras-Milot                  6.37  76
Q. Qele-Fushe Arrez                         0.71  32
Fushe Arrez-Kukes                           4.48  30
Kukes-Morine                                0.79  24
The combined results for all road sections taken together were an overall NPV of US$17.48 and
an EIRR of 49 percent.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
No sensitivity analysis as such was carried out, but in view of the very high returns even when
reduced values are used for savings in vehicle operating costs, it is obvious that an increased cost
of 20 percent and/or reduced benefits of 20 percent would still result in a project with very
favorable economic returns.
-19 -



Annex 6: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Years Endingl December 31
(US$rnillion)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required - Project
Costs
Investment Costs    4.2      7.3       3.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs    4.2      7.3      3.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Financing      4.2      7.3       3.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IDA           4.0       6.3      3.3       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Government        0.3       0.4      0.2
Total Project       4.2      7.3       3.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Financing
Main Assumptions:
IDA will finance US$13.65 million of the proposed Project's estimated total cost of US$14.46
million.
Financial Management Assessment
Assessment of Financial Management System
A Project Implementation Unit will be set up as an autonomous entity, working on behaL f of
the General Directorate of Roads (GRD). l[t will be endowed with full managerial,
-20 -



administrative and financial autonomy in: (a) project and contract management; (b)
procurement and contract implementation; and (c) project accounting and administration of
the Special Account; and overall project coordination. Establishment of a fully operational
PIU is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Staffing. Key staff of the PIU will include the PIU director, engineer, accountant/budget
officer and office assistant/secretary, and driver. In addition, an international supervision
consultant/procurement advisor will be hired for supervising civil works. Legal, procurement,
and technical advisers will be hired on part time basis, as required. Terms of Reference for
establishment of the PIU and job descriptions of the key members of the PIU have been
prepared. The Association will review resumes of the proposed staff. The PIU will be fully
operational and staffed with qualified and experienced staff by end-December 1999.
The proposed project will finance an off-the shelf project accounting software and computers
for the PIU. An Action Plan has been agreed with GRD which outlines critical steps and
actions which need to be addressed for establishment of a satisfactory financial management
system, including: (a) procurement and installation of the accounting software; (b) designing
chart of accounts and project management reports; (c) preparation of Project financial
management and operational manual; (d) training of the PIU staff on applications of the new
software; and (e) training on accounting and financial reporting and standards and procedures,
and Credit disbursement procedures. The computerized system will ensure better
classification, compilation, analysis of accounting data, improve controls over data integrity,
and ensure timeliness and quality of accounting and financial reporting.
Internal Control Systems. The new PIU will follow the internal control procedures in place
for the two PIUs implementing the two ongoing transport projects. The control mechanisms
in place include: (a) operation of budgeting system and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budget and targets; (b) control over assets; and (c) internal and external
audit mechanism. However, no written operational procedures and policies are documented.
This weakness in the system will be addressed under the proposed Project. Internal control
mechanisms for the project are expected to include: (a) segregation of financial and
procurement functions; (b) regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets
and targets, monitoring of physical and financial progress; (c) timely feedback on operation of
the financial management system; and auditing arrangements.
Financial Reporting. Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be generated
from the computerized financial management system, and submitted to IDA and the
Borrower. The format of such reports has been agreed with the Borrower and will comprise
of financial reports, progress reports, and procurement management reports. The Project
Financial Statements would be prepared annually to provide financial management information
including all that required under Project Management Reports. Sample PMRs are available in
the Project Files.
Auditing Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for engaging external
private auditors before commencement of Project activities to ensure that the audit will be
- 21 -



completed in a timely manner. It was confirned during negotiations that the Ministry of
Finance would keep in place the same audit arrangements as in the three ongoing credits for
Durres Port, National Roads and Rural Roads projects. The Ministry will sign a three year
contract with private independent auditors to audit all IDA projects in Albania, including the
Emergency Road Repair Project. The audit will include the auditing of the Project Financial
Statements, Special Account, withdrawals made on basis of Statements of Expenditurm
(SOEs) and assessment of adequacy of accoumting and internal control systems, in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing.
Flow of Funds
Existing procedures on budgeting and budgetary controls and on channeling budgetary funds
to the Project will be followed. Every year the GRD prepares annual budget based on the
PIUs input on investment and operational needs. The GRD compiles the budget and transmits
it to the Ministry of Finance through the Ministry of Transport. The budget goes through
parliamentary proceedings and when approved, a law is enacted. Counterpart funding for
project expenditures will be generated from the State budget.
The IDA Credit of US$13.65 million equivalent will be disbursed on basis of traditional
disbursement procedures. To facilitate Credit disbursement process, the Special Account and
Project Account will be opened and maintained at the national level (National Bank of
Albania). The Project Account will be maintained by the PIU.
Readiness for Imniementation
(a)    A financial imanagement system for the project will be developed and a Project
Financial Management and Operational Manual prepared for the PIU. Equipment for
the PIU including an off-the-shelf accounting software and consultancy services for
the installation will be financed through the Credit. An adequate financial
management system will provide accurate and timely information on the status of the
project to both the Association and the Borrower. Training of the PIU staff orL the
software application and additional training on accounting, financial reporting and
disbursement procedures will be provided. The installation of the software anm
training is anticipated to be completecl by April 30 and the first quarterly repor~
submitted to the Bank by May 30, 2000.
(b)    A fully operational PIU will be in place by December 31, 1999.
(c)    Private independent auditors will be appointed by the Ministry of Finance to au Ii; all
Bank projects in Albania.
Risks
Several steps are being taken to ensure that a fully operational PIU is established and
satisfactory financial management system is installed and operational before the start of l he
- 22 -



project. There is risk of delays in the selection process for qualified accountant/budget officer
for the PIU. The appraisal mission assisted in drafting terms of reference for the PIU
accountant. Also, training will be provided to the staff of the new PIU in accounting, financial
reporting and disbursement procedures. To mitigate any risks, a short term consultant will be
recruited to assist the PIU during the initial stages of the project implementation.
- 23 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Procurement
Civil works and goods under IBRD financed components shall be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants' services shall be procured
in accordance with the 'Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Barik
Borrowers", January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The World Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposal will be used.
Advertisement:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published October 16, 1999 in the issue No. 520
of Development Business announcing works, goods and consultants services to be procured and
inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request
any complementary information from the GRD. The Specific Procurement Notice for hiri.ig of
the Supervision Consultants was published at the same issue No. 520 of October 16, 1999.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods:
1. International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for goods and
equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 where the cost of ICB will clearly outw'eigh
possible price advantages. International shopping procedures will be based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995,
amended in September 1997 and January 1999).
2. National Shoppinig (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per contra.vt may
be purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing price quotations obtiined
from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Civil Works.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The road repair works are of emergency nature, and
required to be contracted at the earliest (the detailed description of each contract is specified in
Annex 2). Therefore, NCB procedures will be used for contracts for civil works estimated to
cost up to US$2,000,000 each. Due to the relatively small size of the contracts, the advan ages of
ICB are clearly outweighed by the administrative or financial burden involved. The total
procurement under NCB, consisting of about 9 separate contracts, is estimated at US$11,'; 30,000
ECA standard NCB bidding documents dated August 1999 shall be followed. Bids will te
advertised in the national press and/or official gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Foreign firms will be allowed to participate.
- 24 -



Consulting Services.
Consultant services would be procured to prepare feasibility studies, to provide technical
support and supervision of the civil works project support. The PIU will use Bank standard
contracts for all consultant services contracts. The following procurement procedures will be
used:
1. Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting firms for
supervision of civil works, feasibility studies, and preparation of a follow-up project. All
consulting assignments above the value of US$200,000 will be advertised in the
Development Business. The estimated total value is US$2,380,000.
3. Individual Consultancies would be used for assignments related to project management as
well as assignments requiring specialized expertise. The PIU technical staff will comprise
of private individuals hired from outside of the GoA under consultant guidelines. There
are no project management firms as such in Albania with experience in carrying out the
project management functions for World Bank-fianced projects. Expenses for
PCU/PMU staff training would be disbursed with prior approval of the Bank. The
estimated total value is US$190,000, and each separate contract will cost less than
US$50,000.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expo   ture vat.,ro
1. Works                           0.00          11.53          0.00          0.00           11.53
(0.00)        (10.72)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (10.72)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.00          0.34           0.00          0.34
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.34)        (0.00)        (0.34)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          2.48           0.00          2.48
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.48)         (0.00)        (2.48)
4. Miscellaneous   31              0.00           0.00          0.11           0.00          0.11
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0. I 1)      (0.00)         (0.11)
Total                           0.00           11.53         2.93           0.00          14.46
_    (0.00)        (10.72)        (2.93)        (0.00)        (13.65)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international, national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local government units.
3/ Training: Estimated cost, period of training, place of training, etc. will be cleared with the Bank.
- 25 -



Tiable Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            2.38      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.38
(2.38)    (0.00)    (0.0()    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.38)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.19       0.00      0. 19
(.9,00)    (0.00)    (0.0()    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 19)    (0.00)     0.19)
Total   2.38      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.19      0.00      2. 57
(:2.38)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.19)    (0.00)    (2.57)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based 'Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Buciget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Sealection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guideli les),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 26 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Bank review shall apply to the following:
*   bidding documents and contracts for the first three NCB civil works contracts, as well as all
contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 each
*   bidding documents and contracts for goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent each, and
above
*   consultant contracts with firms estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent each and above,
including TORs, shortlists and the request for proposals
*   consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent each and above,
including TORs, shortlists and the request for proposals
Training, Information, and Development on Procurement; Staffing
Estimated Date of
Procurement Launch Workshop: 02/15/00
Estimated Date of                                Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory
publication of General Procurement Notice: 10/16/99   SPN in Development Business: Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods: No                Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: No
Retroactive Financing: No                        Advance procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:   Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement
Supervision missions, as well as the infrastructure staff arrangements under co-financing: NA
of the Tirana Resident Mission, will periodically
monitor vis a vis the Procurement Implementation Plan
Indicate Name of Procurement Staff or Bank's part of   Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in
Task Team responsible for the procurement in the  procurement:
Project:                                         The infrastructure staff of the Tirana Resident Mission
Cesar Queiroz, ext. 38053                        will periodically monitor vis a vis the Procurement
Implementation Plan
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
=';~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
1. Works                           >=500                      NCB                         11.53
2. Goods                            <100                        Is                        0.14
<50                        NS                         0.20
3. Services                        >=100                      QCBS                        2.38
50                       IND                         0.19
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
- 27 -



16. Miscellaneous      |                        I2
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   About US$14.44
million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Assessment of the capacity of the General Roads Directorate (GRD) to conduct procurement untier the
Emergency Road Repair Project is attached (see Annex 12).
-28 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The disbursement
profile of the Project has been based on experience gained during the previous four Bank-funded
projects within the transport sector in Albania. The Project has been designed within the capacity
of the Ministry of Transport to execute over a two year period and credit funds are expected to be
fully disbursed within three years of effectiveness.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works                              9.40                        93%
Goods                                    0.30            100% of foreign and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for other items
produced locally
Consultants Services                     2.27                       100%
Unallocated                              1.68
Total Project Costs                      13.65
Total                                    13.65
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements need to be fully documented except for the expenditures below which may be
claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs):
Civil works:                    contracts for less than US$ 500,000 equivalent
Goods:                          contract for less than US$  50,000 equivalent
Consulting services - firms:    contracts for less than US$ 100,000 equivalent
Consulting services - individuals:   contracts for less than US$ 50,000 equivalent
Disbursements and monitoring of allocations of the Credit proceeds and'counterpart funding will
be managed by the PIU. Documentation on disbursements made on basis of SOEs will be
retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made, and made available to IDA supervision mission and the
auditors.
Special account:
While adequate financial management system to support PMR-based disbursements is not in
place, disbursement will take place using the traditional disbursement mechanism. To facilitate
timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US Dollars. The
- 29 -



authorized allocation will be for US$1.0 million. Upon effectiveness, the borrower may withdraw
US$500,000 representing 50% of the authorized allocation from the Credit account. When the
aggregate total of funds withdrawn from the Credit account together with outstanding Special
Commitments amount to SDR2.5 million the borrower may withdraw the remaining US$500,000.
Nuniber of                      PrequaUS                Bid
Descrip-    Type    subslices/ Estimated    Proc.       L      (BD/RFP)       1.     Contract  Contract
tion              itemrs/sub-   Cost     Method       1.         1.    Invitation  Signa1ure  Comr pie-
packages                       Invitation  Prepara- GPN/SPN/                 tion
GPN/SPN/    tion       Local
Local              2. Opening
2. Opening            3. Eval.&
3. Eval.&             Recom.
____ _____    Recom.
Consultant
Contract     CS         1       40,000       SS        NA         NA         NA       11/05/99   11/20,/99
for first                      (finance
year's                          under
contract                        ongoing
design                          Credit
(Berat -                      2732-ALB)
Corovode,
and
F.Arrez-
Kukes)
Supervision
of road     CS          1      1,026,000    QCBS       NA        RFP:     1. GPN:   02/15/00   12/15,02
works                                                          10/16/99   10/16/99
contracts                                 _______
Consultant
Contract     CS         1       114,000    QCBS        NA         RFP:     1. GPN:   02/15/00   06/25/00
for second                                                       11/30/99   10/16/99
year's                                                                  2.01131/00
contract                                                                 3. 02/10100
design (F.
Kruje -
Milot,
Q. Qele-F.
Arrez, and
Kukes
-Morin)
Berat -                                                                   1. GPN:
Corovode     CW         2       1,600,000    NCB        NA        BD:      10/16/99   02/15/03   05/31/C l
road                                               (postqual)  11/15/99    Local:
section                                                                   11/15/99
(48 km)                                                                  2. 01/31/00
3.
_________  __________  __________  _______  _____________  02/28/00  _
- 30 -



1. GPN:
F. Arrez -    CW        4      5,400,000    NCB        NA        BD:      10/16/99   02/15/00   05/31/01
Kukes road                                           (postqual)  11/15/99    Local:
section                                                                  11/15/99
(70 km)                                                                 2.01/31/00
3.
02/28/00
Fushe Kuje                                                                 1. GPN:
- Milot    CW          2      1,900,000    NCB        NA        BD:      10/16/99   09/30/00   12/31/01
road                                              (postqual)  06/15/00    Local:
section                                                                  07/10/00
(30 km)                                                                 2. 08/25/00
3.
09/25/00
Q. Quele-                                                                 1. GPN:
F. Arrez    CW          1      1,430,000    NCB       NA         BD:     10/16/99   09/30/00   12/31/01
road                                              (postqual)  06/15/00    Local:
section                                                                  07/10/00
(49 kin)                                                                2. 08/25/00
3.
09/25/00
Kukes-                                                                   1. GPN:
Morine     CW          1      1,200,000    NCB        NA        BD:      10/16/99   09/30/00   12/31/01
road                                              (postqual)  06/15/00    Local:
section                                                                  07/10/00
(24 km)                                                                 2. 08/25/00
3.
09/25/00
PIU Office                                                                1. GPN:
Equipment    G           4       100,000     NS        NA    Request for  10/16/99
and                                                             3        NA       02/20/00   03/01/00
Vehicle                                                      Quotations: 2.02/15/00
02/01/00     3.
02/16/00
Noise and                                                                 1. GPN:
Dust       G          1        11,000      IS        NA    Request for  10/16/99
Monitoring                                                         3         NA      02/20/00   03/15/00
Equipment                                                      Quotations: 2. 02/15/00
02/01/00     3.
02/16/00
Financial                                                                 1. GPN:
Manage-      G          1       50,000       IS        NA    Request for  10/16/99
ment                                                             3        NA       03/15/00   03/30/00
Reporting                                                     Quotations: 2. 03/15/00
Sustem/                                                        03/01/00     3.
Software                                                                  03/15/00
Laboratory                                                     Request for  1. GPN:
and other    G          2       180,000      IS        NA         3       10/16/99
Equipment                                                      Quotations:    NA     05/15/00   06/30/00
05/01/00 2. 05/15/00
3.
05/15/00
-31 -



Preparation
of Durres-   CS          1       570,000    QCBS         NA        RFP:      1. GPN:   06/30/00   1)0'30/00
Morin                                                           11/30/99   10/16/99
Feasibility
Study              _                                                                              _
Preparation
of the     CS          2       670,000    QCBS         NA        RFP:      1. GPN:   10/01/00   04,'15/01
Feasibility                                                      05/15/00   10/16/99
Study and
first year's
design and
Bidding
Documents
for a
follow-on
project                                                                                         __ _
PIU                                                             Draft
technical    CS          5       159,600    Other       NA        Contr.      NA      1]2/115/99   12/.31/02
staff                                   _l_(ivid.)             11/15/99            __         _      _
Other                                                            Draft
Individuals    CS         1       30,400     Other       NA        Contr.      NA       05/15/00   a8/31/00
(Individ.)            05/15/00           _    _        _
- 32 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3                       3
First Bank mission (identification)      09/01/99                   08/30/99
Appraisal mission departure             110/25/99                   10/25/99
Negotiations                            11/04/99                   11/04/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            02/28/2000                 02/28/2000
Prepared by:
Elena Kastlerova
Preparation assistance:
Robert Nooter
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Cesar Queiroz, Elena Kastlerova   Team Leaders
Artan Guxho                       Project Officer, Tirana Resident Mission
Robert Nooter                     ST Consultant
Njeri Muhoho                      Financial Analyst
Bernard Baratz                    Principal Environmental Specialist
Ahmed Jehani                      Sr. Counsel
Junko Funahashi                   Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Jose L. Irigoyen                  Peer Reviewer
Mark Zitzka                       Consultant
Harold McKittrick                 Consultant
- 33 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Prepared during the appraisal missionand agreed during Negotiations.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification/Preparation Mission Back-to Office Report dated September 17, 1999.
C. Other
Draft Project Document with economic analysis prepared by GRD
*Including electronic files
- 34 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Arnount in USS Millions        disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 13
AL-PE-43178    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA       IRRIG. & DRAINAGE II                     0.00       24.00       0.00       23.69     0.00      0.00
AL-PE-51309    1999 GOVT. OF ALBANIA             COMMUNITYWORKS                          0.00       14.00       0.00       13.65     0.50       0.00
AL-PE-51310    1999 GOVT. OF ALBANIA             MICROCREDIT                             0.00       12.00       0.00       11.91     0.00       0.00
AL-PE-55160    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        SAC                                     0.00       45.00       0.00       44.43      0.00      0.00
AL-PE-40818    1998 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        DURRES PORT                             0.00       17.00       0.00       15.73     6.34       0.00
AL-PE-40975    1998 MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION    LAND DEVELOPMENT                         0.00       10.00       0.00        9.55      0.34      0.00
AL-PE-45312    1998 GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA        HEALTH RECOVERY                         0.00       17.00       0.00       16.47     4.01      0.00
AL-PE-51602    1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE          PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC                    0.00       10.25       0.00        8.05     8.21       0.00
AL-PE-54384    1998 ALBANIA                      RECOVERY PROG. TA                       000         8.00       0.00        3.12     0.99       0.00
AL-PE-34491    1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          POWER TRANSM. & DIST                    0.00       29.50       0.00       18.98     16.86      0.00
AL-PE-35787    1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                    000         6.00       0.00        1.91      2.23      0.00
AL-PE-36060    1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          NATIONAL ROADS                          0.00       25.00       0.00       17.87     9.37       0.00
AL-PE-8271     1996 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          FORESTRY                                0.00        8.00       0.00        5.07      1.65      0.00
AL-PE-8253     1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          HEALTH SERVICES REHA                    0.00       12.40       0.00        6.49     6.26       0.00
AL-PE-8267     1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          RURALROADS                              0.00       15.00       0.00        1.56     2.67       0.00
AL-PE-8270     1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA         IRRIGATION REHABILIT                     0.00       10.00       0.00        0.06     -1.66      0.00
AL-PE-8273     1995 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          RURAL DEVELOPMENT                       000         6.00       0.00        0.42     0.48       0.00
AL-PE-8260     1994 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          DURRES WATER SUPPLY                     0.00       11.60       0.00        3.60      1.92      0.00
AL-PE-8266     1994 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA          HOUSING                                 000        18.00       0.00        0.72     0.14       0.13
Total:     000       292.75        0.00     203.28     60.31      0.13
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):         90.17         176.67          266.84
of which has been repaid:         0.00           0.00            0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:        302.35         179.37          481.72
Amount sold:          0.00           0.00            0.00
of which repaid:        0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:       203.28            4.32         207.60
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 35 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disb utsed
IFC                              IFC  _ -
FY Approval        Compafy                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equit._  Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                              0.00     0.00    28.50    0.00     0.00    0.0c     6.38     D-00
1999               FEFAD Bank                       (.00     0.00     1.04    0.00     0.00    0.0(     0.00     1.00
Total Portfolio:          0.00    0.00    29.54     0.00    0.00    1.00     6.38     ).00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
- 36 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Emergency Road Repair Project
Eurooc &                                                   9/17/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low.
Albanta      Asia   Income        Development diamond'
1998
Pooula ion. mid-vear (milaions)                           3 4       473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP oer caofta (Atlas method. USSJ                       810      2.190      1,710
a/NP (Atlas method. USS billions)                         , 7     1 n3s       1.5S7
Averao annual arowth. 1992-95
Poaulation /%)                                            0.8        01        1.1
Labor force (%3G 1.2                                                0.6        1.5      GNP                               Gros
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                   capita                         Pnrmilm-nt
PovertV J% of DoDulation below nationa/ oovertv line)
Urban noDulation (% of total oooulationl                  38         68         58
Life eXDectancv at birth (vears)                          72         69         68
Infant mortalitv ('et 1.000 i/ve births)                  26         23         38
Child malnuitrition (f6 of children under 51                                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (16 of DoDulation,                   76          .-        75
Illiteracv (% of oooulatiorn aoe 15+)                      ..         4         14
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-aae DoDulation/    107        t00        103                   Albania
Male                                                   106        101        105            _Low-income group
Female                                                 108         99        100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratiose
GOP fUSS bi/laons)                                .       2.2        2.3       3.0
Gross domestic investment/GOP                    ..    28.4        16.0       16.0                      Trd
Fynorts of nonds and servicers/GOP                       1 5        1nis       9.t                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                        ..    28.3       -9.1       -6.7
Gross national savinoslGOP                        ..       ..       4.0        99
C.irrent aconuint halanr.e/GlnP                           0.9      -12.1      -6 1
Interest osavmentsaGDP                           ..       0.0        0.9       0.2      Domestic                      Investment
Total debtlGDP                                    .        ..      30.9       26.9      Savings          \vte
Totat debt service/exDortt                       ..        .         7.2       2.2
Present value of debt/GDP                         .        ..      21.0
Present value of debt/essorts                                       72.0
Indebtedness
1977J47  1988-98      1997      199S   1999-03
(averace annual era wthl
GOP                                    1.9     -0.       -7.0        8.0         .                    Aloania
GNP oer caDita                          ..      6.1      -91         6.1                              Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services           ..    13.8    -29.5        17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1957       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(16 of GDP)
Auriculture                                      ..    33.2         56.0      54.4      300
Industrv                                         ..    45.8        23.6       24.5      200
Manufacturino                                   ..       ..         ..         ..    100
Services                                         ..  21.0   20.4   21.0                    _
Private consumotion                               ..    62.0        97.7      96.5    .100       3    94   95   so   97 
General aovernment consumotion                    ..      9.6       11.4      10.2                      GDI        t  GOP
lmoorts of ooods and services                    ..    15.6    . 35.7        32.2
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(averaae annual arowth)I
Aariculture                                     2.4       5.5        1.0       5.0      300
Industrv                                        2.2      -8.4       -5.9      12.2    200-
Manufacturina
Services                                        0.6       0.4      -24.4      11.3    1to
Private consumotion                                       6.1       -9.3      10.t1      o -    , _
General aovernment consumotion                           .3.9      -16.5      -0.6              93 54   vs   96    9          s
Gross domestic investment                      -0.6      19.9       -4.1      21.0    -'oo
ImDorts of ooods and services                            16.7      .20.2      16.1                    Exoports    -   Imports
Gross national Droduct                           ..       6.5       -8.1       7.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds shnw fonur kev indicators in the countrv (in holdW comnnred with its incomr-romLn averane. If data are misssinn the diamond will
he incomniete.
- 37



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domes tic prices  1977  1987  1997  1998  Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   .                 33.2      219      1 
Implicil GDP deflator                                               30.8      24.8     so
Government finance                                                                      40
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      a
Current revenue                                          49.2       16.8      20.3        3      94      95     9S      97 
Current budget balance                            .      237        -8.6      -5 3                -GDP deflator      '  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -1.7      -12.6     -10.4
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millionsl
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      311        167        205     1.aoo
Minerals and fuels                                                  46        57
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                         is        22       750
Manufactures                                             ..         99       122
Total imports (fob)                                      316        685       826
Food                                                               164       197       2.,
Fuel and energy                                                     71        86
Capital goods                                                       go       120        o       __                        _
Exoort orice index f1993.100i
lmoort orice Index (1993- 100)                    ..       ..          .         .                 Exports       Imports
Terms of trade (1993-1001
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1f77uS9S7           1997 1l9n            Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                            334        239       289
Imports of goods and services                            336        816       980
Resource balance                                   .       -2      -577       -691                    ",_
~20'
Net income                                         .        0        Si        65       2   
Net current transfers                                               250       440      -30
Current account balance                                     5       -276      -186    -40
Financing items (net)                                      7        303       257      -s0
Changes In net reserves                                   -12       -27        -71     -so
Memo:
Reserves includino cold fUSS millions)                              342       401
Conversion rate fDEC. loca/USS)                           8.0      149.6     151.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998                                           __
fUSs miJlions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ m8 loris)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                706       820
IBRD                                                                0         0                       G:35
IDA                                                               148       220
Total debt service                                                   39         37                                    B 220
IBRD                                                                0         0
IDA                                             ..       ..         1          1       
IDA                                           I         I        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F. 271
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    77        89
Official creditors                                                 46        79                          _            c
Private creditors                                                  -1         0
Foreign direct investment                                          42        45                                    0:21
Portfolio equity                               ..        .2 0                 0
E: 209
World Bank program
Commitments                                                        34        54      A- IBRD                       E - Bilate if
Disbursements                                                     s1         64     B IDA    D -Other multilateral   F - Privat,
Principal repayments                                                0         0      C, IMF                        G - Short ernr
Net flows                                       .                  19        64
Interest payments                                                   1          1
Net transfers                                                      18        63
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/- 7/99
-38 -



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                      ANNEX 11
MIYISTRY OF FINANCE
AND
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Road Maintenance Strategy
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
By all accounts, the general condition of the roads in Albania, both national and
rural,. is very poor. The country has received commitments for large amounts of
assistance for road improvements during the past six years, estimated at USS250 million,
but only a small portion of this amount has been disbursed to date. Also, the level of
Albanian Government financing available for general road maintenance, at about US$7-S
million per year, is totally inadequate to maintain the road network, and the effective
maintenance resulting from the expenditure of even these funds is minimal.
2.   IDA has financed three projects that provide financing for road improvements,
two of which are still under implementation. However, none of these adequately address
the need for improving Albania's capacity to carry out effective road maintenance.
Objective
3.    There is a clear and urgent need to take action to improve Albania's ability to
maintain its road network. Large amounts are being spent to rehabilitate portions of the
road network, buT these, along with those roads that are not included in these
rehabilitation plans, will soon deteriorate unless an effective and efficient program of
road maintenance can be established. None of the existing donor-supported projects as
now constituted will do this.
4.    The three studies mentioned above, while not constituting a strategy, provide
sufficient information to form the basis for creating one. Our Strategy to achieve an
effective road maintenance capability is given below.
Road Maintenance Strategy
.    The strateorv that we envision is based on the principle of maintaining an
appropriate service level for each portion of the road network. At present that means
more timely and adequate maintenance for virtually all roads in Albania, but over the
longer run it also means not over-maintaining roads beyond what is justified for their
traffic level and usage. This principle results in the lowest possible cost for maintaining



roads, as timely maintenance reduces the need for costly reconstruction, and avoiding
excessive maintenance has obvious benefits in lowering the frequency and cost of repairs.
To carry out this principle correctly requires techniques that provide guidance on how to
achieve just the right amount of maintenance for each road section at the right time.
6.    The strategy includes measures to address four important areas at once: (i)
creating an effective organizational structure, (ii) establishing a system that assures an
adequate level of financing, (iii) putting in place sound operational procedures, and (iv)
adopting good personnel policies.
7.    Organizational Structure: There are two guiding principles to assist Albania in
the choice of organizational structures. First, it has become obvious that private sector
operations., especially under competitive conditions, are invariably more efficient than
public sector operations. Therefore, as many functions as possible should be carried out
on contract, arranged on a competitive bidding basis
8     The second principle is that t:he "client" should be separated organizationally from
the "producer", since this results in clear cut responsibilities and obligations. If the Road
Directorate is carrying out road maintenance work with its own forces, there is no client
to determrine that the work has been properly executed. Contracting out can achieve the
desired separation of client and producer, in which the producer must produce
satisfactory work if he wants to be paid.
9.    Financing for Road Maintenance: The road users have both an obligation to pay
for the use of the roads (through fuel and/or other taxes related to the use of the roads),
and a benefit which they receive in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs when the
roads are well maintained. Other important principles are that (i) an adequate level of
financing that permits timely maintenance will result in lower overall costs for the
operation of the road network, and (ii) the amounts of financing for road maintenance
should be relatively level each year so that the contractors will be able to develop their
staffs and purchase equipment with the knowledge that they will be able to compete for
work every year.
10.   The obvious conclusion is that sufficient road maintenance budget withir. the
Ministry of Transport (for maintenance of national road network), and the Minis :rv of
Local Government (for maintenance of rural and urban road networks) is to be a..located
on an annual basis. The country's present tax structure is close to optimal, and could be
made so with fairly minor adjustments. What is seriously needed is vastly imprc ved tax
collections, and a mechanism that assures that the collected funds are then turned: over to
the road maintenance authorities. Therefore, an establishment of a Road Fund, 2!s
outlined in the SweRoad report, will be considered in the future.
11.   Operations: The strategy will be implemented through the application of proper
operational procedures and practices, including the use of economic evaluation t:
determine how best to use limited resources and how to avoid over-spending for
maintenance. It will also include good procurement practices to assure competitive
bidding, adequate quality control, and the application of new technologies throu.. h
contact with what is going on in road maintenance practices in other countries. T'here is



no practical way to become up to date on the best operational practices without the help
of knowledgeable technical advisers that have these skills.
12.   Personnel Practices: Implementation of the strategy also depends on having
competent staff producing at high levels. The personnel issues are reduced to the extent
that contracting is used, since most personnel are employed by the contractors. However,
there will still be a critical core of persons on the public payrolls Mranaging the
maintenance system. Selection should be on the basis of qualifications, dismissal should
be an option for non-performers, and salaries should be at levels that can attract and hold
qualified staff. Trainine is another important element in bringing the staff up to standard
in areas that they have not been exposed to before, including transparency in contract
management, budgeting, and planning based on economic analysis. Training already
received should be used as a basis for the future technical assistance and training
program.
Actions to Implement the Program
I3.   Critical steps in the implementation of this strategy include:
(a)   Roads should be the responsibility of the appropriate Government Body.
On this basis, roads providing access between major centers will be under
General Roads Directorate (GRD; about 3,221 kmn), roads serving two or
more Districts will be under the District Councils (or their successor
Regions; about 4,200), and roads serving only municipalities/Districts will
be under the municipality/District served (about 1,000 kin).
(b)   Rural road maintenance organizations will be established after the
Regions replace the District Councils to avoid the need to reorganize the
new maintenance units shortly after their establishment.
(c)   In the future, all road and bridge maintenance work would be carried out
by contract, both for routine and periodic maintenance and for both GRD
and the Regional maintenance activities. With this in mind, the existing
field organizations should all be privatized. GRD (operating under the
Ministry of Transport) and the Regional road organizations (under the
Ministry of Local Government) will be responsible for planning and
budgeting, contracting for design, civil works and maintenance, and
ensuring quality control of the contracted works. The works will be
carried out by private contractors under contracts secured from GRD and
the Regional road organizations on a competitive bid basis. Procurement
of equipment would be the responsibility of the contractors.
(d)   Train GRD personnel in economic analysis, modern budgeting and
accounting practices, new road technologies, contract management,
quality control, and road safety; salaries should be set at rates able to
compete for qualified staff with the private sector; donor support should
be sought for establishing GRD on the new basis, with appropriate
training, office equipment, and contacts with road maintenance practices



in other countries. The Regional road administrations would be created on
the same basis at such time as the new Regional governmental
org,anizations are established.
(e)   Provide training for the private road construction industry in competitive
bidding practices, cost accounting, modem road construction techniques,
and good management practices.
14.   We are convinced that support for the above set of measures will allow us to
tackle the country's road deterioration problem. We appreciate your support.
Sincerely ours
.4,n   A                                         inarid sW4,    X
M i n it,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Mi j)r
Tivnni oeme        9Minister of T.                              rt       V 
Tirana November 1, 1999.



ANNEX 12
ASSESSMENT OF THE CAPACITY
OF THE
(MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT - GRD DEPARTMENT)
TO CONDUCT PROCUREMENT UNDER THE
EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
October 7, 1999
ECSSD
Europe and Central Asia Region



-i1-
ALBANIA
PROPOSED EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
ASSESSMENT OF THE CAPACITY OF THE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT - GRD AND
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS
WHO WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PROJECT
1.   General Information and Summary
1. 1. Date of Report: October 4, 1999
1.2. Basis of Report. This report has been prepared in line with the requirements set
forth in the OCSPR memorandum dated August 11, 1998, and concerns the assessmert of
the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport - GRD and Maintenance
Departments (GRD) who will be responsible for project. The above comments were
based on the procurement capacity assessment discussions with the Project Operation:
Officer, RM Tirana and the General Director of GRD, the Director of the Maintenance:
Department, the Lawyer responsible for the review of procurement documents, and the
International Procurement Advisor for the Naltional Road Project. Attachment 1
summarizes the findings and actions necessary to improve the procurement system in t.he
country.
1.3. Scope of the Review. This review covers the assessment of the GRD's capacity
to conduct the different phases of the procurement cycle under the proposed project for
consulting services and necessary civil works.. It addresses the legal aspect; procurement
cycle management; organization and functions; support and control systems; record
keeping; staffing; general procurement environment; and general risk assessment.
1.4. Project Description. The Emergency Road Repair Project consists of the
following components: (1) Civil Works - This component will include the emergency
repairs to the following road sections of the national road network as follows::
- Berat-Corovode Section (US$0.96 million)- Work on this 48 km section will inclucde
patching of potholes, improving drainage, ancl replacing portions of the asphalt paving t)
be let in two contracts (Berat to Polican- 22 kin, and Polican-Corovada- 26 km).
- Fushe Kruje- Mamurras-Milot Section (US$1.01 million)- Work on this 30 km
section will include patching of potholes, strengthening of shoulders, improving draina ge,
and overlays for some portions of the road, to be let in two contracts (Fushe Kiruje-
Mamurras- 16 km, and Mamurras-Milot- 1.4 km).
- Q. Qele-Fushe Arrez Section (US$0.59 million)- Work on this 49 km section will
include leveling of the wearing course, repairing selected concrete works for overpasse 3,
and waterproofing of structures, to be let in a single contract.
- Fushe Arez-Kukes Section (US$3.95 million)- Work on this 70 km section will
include leveling with crushed material, the application of two layers of Penetration
Macadam, and earth works, ditches and slopes to improve drainage in very mountainot s
area, to be let in 2 contracts.



-11-
- Kukes-Morine Section (US$0.53 million)- Work on this 24 km section will include
leveling of the wearing course and repairing of landslide damage, to be let in one
contract.
(2) Institutional Support to the GRD: This component will include technical support to
GRD for necessary training in project management, including procurement and
accounting practices (US$0. 10 million), for foreign consultants to assist in the
supervision of the civil works component (US$0.75 million), for laboratory equipment
needed for improved quality control, and office equipment and vehicles for the PIU
(US$0.15 million), for consultants for the operation of the PIU (US$0.30 million), and
for foreign consultants to assist in preparing a follow-on highway project (US$0.50
million).
The project includes works, goods and services (US$10 million) to be procured in
accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.
2.  Procurement Implementation
2.1. Existing Procurement Capacity. Within the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport exists two separate PIU's, one for the National Roads Project and one for the
Rural Roads Project, each of which have employed and heavily relied on international
consultants to coordinate procurement activities required for both projects. GRD also has
a procurement department consisting of two procurement officers and a part time lawyer
who procures goods, works and services in accordance with the Albanian Law. In
addition, all procurement documents for local, WB, PHARE, and otLer donor funded
activities are reviewed by the Legal Department who is well versed in WB and
international procurement procedures.
To implement the Emergency Road Repair Project, an independent PIU will be
established. The PIU will be responsible for overall project management,- coordination
and planning, including the preparation of the action plan, procurement of design, goods,
civil works and supervision, financial management and reporting. However, the PIU has
yet to be staffed. GRD has tentatively selected a PIU Director who is awaiting WB
clearance, is familiar with WB procurement procedures, but has little or no practical
experience. The remaining staff, including a financial specialist/accountant, an engineer,
a bilingual secretary and a driver have yet to be considered. As with the National Roads
and Rural Roads Projects, the PIU, when established, will be strengthened with
experienced full time professionals from a full service international consulting firm. The
PIU will report to and coordinate with GRD. Included in the team of full time
professionals will be an international procurement specialist who will assist the PIU in all
aspects of the procurement process. Additional support will be provided by the PAS
located in the World Bank's Office in Tirana. In addition, included in the TOR for the
full time professionals will be a financial specialist who is will assist the PIU in the
procurement and installation of a financial management system and Procurement
Monitoring System which is LACI compliant.
2.2 GRD and the PIUs of the National Road and Rural Road Projects have maintained
up-to-date project and procurement records. WB Standard bidding documents for goods,
works and services or documents acceptable to the WB will be used for all procurement.



-111-
3.  Recommendation for Prior Review Thresholds
3.1  With the assistance of the procuremenit specialist included Management
Consulting contract, the PIU, when establish,ed, will have the capacity to conduct
procurement under the proposed Emergency Road Repair Project. At the national level,
the country has a transparent public procurement system with an independent public
procurement agency. Under the second IDF grant for the procurement institutional
development, the Bank assisted the Government in preparing standard bidding
documents, and in providing initial procurement training to about 500 public officials
throughout the country. Nevertheless, the national environment in which the PIU wil.
operate is not conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes. But because the
PIU will employ a full time full service consualting firm to assist with all procurement and
financial activities and to supervise the quality of the civil works, it is recommended that
despite the environmental constraints, the prior review thresholds indicated above be
applied.
Goods:
All ICB Contracts: US $ 1 00,000 or more
IS Contracts: less than US $ 100,000 - First 3
NS Contracts: less than US $ 50!000 - First 3
Works:
-   All NCE, contracts: less than US $ 2,000,000 per contract
First 3 under US$ 500,000 and All over US $ 500,000
Minor Works: less than US $ 100,000 - First 3
-Consulting Services
QCBS - All Contracts
Individual Consultancies - less than US $ 50,000 - All TOR - First 3
At project mid-term review, a review of the procurement thresholds should also be
conducted with a view to determining whether an adjustment in these thresholds wouk.
be necessary.
3.2  It is further recommended that during the project launch workshop adequate tim
be devoted to procurement under the project not only to discuss the procurement
arrangements under the new project but also to make them aware of the changes in the
Bank's procurement and consultant guidelines.
3.3. Updating of the Albania CPAR. The Albania CPAR dated March 10, 1997, is
scheduled to be updated in January 2000. This will enable the Bank to learn about the
actual working of the procurement system during the last three years and to make
recommendations to the Government to improve the system.
Attachments
I .  Summary of Fiiiding and Actions



Attachment 1
Page I of 7
ALBANIA
THE EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR PROJECT
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY ASSSESSMENT
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND ACTIONS
Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Item Assessed
Null   Poor  Fair  Satis-        Major Weakness                                  Actions        Proposed
Factory                        Low    Ave.   High         Proposed       Completion
Date
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws &                            X                                             X
Regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures                    X                                             X
(iii) Internal Codes and        X                    Manuals do not exist in                 X
Manuals                                           all departments of
GRD
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                                   PIU not yet established         X            Project includes
TA to monitor
project cycle.
(i) General handling                  X
(ii) Proc. Planning                    X             GRD plans                              X    GOA should              6/00
procurements for each                        prepare and
fiscal year.                                implement a
training program
(iii) Preparation of             X                   PIU not established             X            To be completed by
Documents                                         Procurement Officer                          Intl consulting firm
not appointed
(iv) Mgmt. Of Process                  X             Same as above                   X             Same as above         06/00
(v) Bid Evaluation                     X                                             X
(vi) Contract Award                    X                                             X
(vii) Preparation and                    X                                              X
signing of contracts
(viii) Contract                         X             General lack of                 X             Intl TA will          06/00
Management            __                          experience                                   Provide training   I



Attachment I
Page 2 of 7
Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Item Assessed
Null    Poor  Fair  Satis-       Major Weakness                                 Actions         Proposed
Factory                        Low    Ave.   High         Proposed       Completion
Date
(c) Organization and
Functions
(i) Organization of Unit                X              PIIJ Not established yet               X    tre International       1/0
and Functions                                                                                   consuling firm to
support PIU
(ii) Internal manuals           X                    Not for all GRD                 X
and Instructions                                  departments
(d) Support and Control
System                                                                                               .
(i) Auditing                          X                                     _        X
(ii) Legal Assistance                  x                                             x
(iii) Technical and              X                   Lack of experience in                   X    Intl TA to provide     06,/00
Admin. Controls                                   technical controls                           OJT
(iv) Code of Ethics      X                           Does not exist                          X    Anti-corruption        12/00
measures are to be
included in WB
Public Admin
Reform Project
(v) Anticorruption              X                    Plans have been                        X    anti-corruption         12/00
Initiatives                                       underway but no                              initiatives are to be
concrete actions yet                         included in WB
Public Admin
Reform Project    l
._~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ __ _ _ _ _ __ _                                     _  _  _
(e) Record Keeping                                                                   l  X   l       l_l
(i) Public Notices                     X                                             X            Intl Procurement       12/99
Specialist will be
hired to assist-t P!T



Attachment I
Page 3 of 7
Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Null    Poor  Fair  Satis-       Major Weakness                                 Actions        Proposed
Factory                        Low    Ave.   High         Proposed      Completion
Date
(ii) Bidding Documents                 X             PIU not established            X            Intl TA firm to
Support Project
Procurement
(iii) Bid Opening                      X                                             X              Same as (e) (i)
Information
(iv) Bid Evaluation                    X                                             X              Same as (e) (i)
Report
(v) Formal Appeals and                 X                                             X
outcomes
(vi) Signed Contract                   X                                             X
Document
(vii) Claims and dispute                X
Resolution Records
(viii) Comprehensive              X                   No accounting system            X            LACI FM software
Disbursement Data                                in place                                       to be in project
(0 Staffing                                             PItU not established to                      Make PIU effective   12/99
date - no staff in place                     and hire staff and
Intl TA
(g) General Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a                       X             Procurement officer                    X    Same as (e) (i)
Culture of                                      has not been appointed
Accountability
(ii) Reputation of             X                    Overall Procurement                    X    Systemic problem.       12/00
Procurement Corps                                Corps does not enjoy a                      Need of
good image in Albania                       improvement in
general economic
environment



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 7
Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Null    Poor  Fair  Satis-       Major Weakness                                 Actions        Proposed
Factory                        Low    Ave.   High        Proposed       Completion
Date
(iii) Salary Structure  X                           Salaries of PIU staff                  X    Recognize              012/00
are 30% - 40% lower                         procurement corps
than private enterprise                     as a dist.nct career
salaries                                    and provide
necessary
incentive, such as
better salaries
(iv) Freedom From       X                           Systemic problem                       X    Introduce conflict      12/00
Political                                                                                    of interest laws (see
Interference           ._ .        _            _                                            (d) (v)
(v) Existence of        X                           No Staff in Place                      X    Make PIU effective     12/00
Experienced and                                                                              ct
And Capable Staff
(vi) Clear Written                    X             Only in certain Depts           X            Include in
Standards and                                   of GRD - PIU not                             operations manual
Delegation of                                   established
Authority
(vii) Sound                      X                   Although government                    X    GOA need to
Budget/Financial                                 has been taking                             continue its efforts
Systems                                          measures to introduce                       in this regard -
sound budget and                            Project to employ
financial systems, there                    full time financial
remains room for                            specialist and
improvement - No PIU                        include intl FMS in
yet                                         MC contract



Attachment I
Page 5 of 7
Assessment                                     Risk Assessment
Null    Poor  Fair  Satis-       Major Weakness                                   Actions        Proposed
Factory                        Low    Ave.   High          Proposed       Completion
Date
(h) Private Sector
Assessment
(i) General Efficiency                 X                                              X
and
Predictability
(ii) Transparency                      X                                              X
(iii) Quality of Contract        X                    General Lack of                  X            Intl TA is included
Management                                        Experience                                   in Project to
improve Contract
Management
(iv) General                           X                                              X
Reputation         _         .                                                                           .



Attachment I
Page 6 of 7
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                            Overall Risk Assessment
Goods:                                                                         High       3
IS Contracts: less than US $ 100,000 First 3                            Average    v
NS Contracts: less than US $ 50,000 First 3
Low
Works:                                                                      The  "Hlgh" Risk Assessment is based GRD'S existing
- All NCB contracts: < than US $ 2,000,000 per                          capacity. However due to the fact that the entire
contract                                                              procurement process (including preparing technical
First 3 under US $ 500,000 - All over US$ 500,000                     specifications, biding documents, supervision of civil
-Consulting Services                                                        works, etc.) will be coordinated by an full service
QCBS: All Consultant Contracts                                        professional consulting firm, the Overall risk assessment
Individual Contract: less than US $ 50,000 First 3                   can be rated as "Average"
Post Review Ratio: One in 5 contracts
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed:                     Form Prepared By: Ronald P. Isaacson
One every 4 months (includes special procurement                           I (Implementation Advisor /Procurement Accredited Staff
supervision for post-review/audits)                                         Assigned to the Project)
Signature: Sd/-
Date: 10/07/99
Comments:.. The PIU to manage the Emergency Road Repair project has not been established to date, but will consist of a Director (tentatively
selected) who is familiar with WB procurement guidelines), a financial specialist, procurement officer, an engineer, and a bilingual secretary.
The PIU when established will be strengthened by an international full time professional consulting who will assist the PIU in managing the
entire procurement cycle and therefore will have the capacity to procure goods, works and services under the Emergency Road Repair Project.
With the procurement support from the international procurement specialist, the PIU can be placed in "average" risk category. However
without international procurement assistance the risk factor is "high". Additionally, although the country does have the procurement legislation
necessary for fair and transparent procurement processes, there is much room for improvement in the effective implementation of this
legislation. Furthermore, the procurement system in Albania is currently operating in an environment which does not appear to be conducive to
fair and transparent procurement processes. Therefore, the procurement system in the country has been rated high risk, but the overall risk
assessment will be lessened because the PiU will employ a full time full service consulting firm to assist with all procurement and financial
activities and to s_mnei thA  n!i^? Af t  c-e    '  pr review thresholds recommen(ied above are those applicable to an average risk
country.



MAP SECTION






7~XL _ \,  lEv30'   j   9 X'  19"30'    yS             2000'                     2013                        210'
= '*---~ (:CwA   !                                                         j  j    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
CkOATDI~-
(SERBIA/MO+TENEGRO)
42030'              'RQO_         .                                                                                                                                  42'30'3
Kq t---  '.  4                           z  MA'ESI  ,.  t             _          bPrushi      gxrMAL#S1 
To Podgeri.o    r  HaRt               Bajra      mCCrt
/ '  SHKODER    ' -                 1,r-,.    Rotten 
42'WO                                                                                                                                                                42'
A  L B A  N  I A  SigiAt IDE Si,-
E M E R G E N C Y R O A D                                              Leeh Roes RLuin js
REPAIR  PROJECT                                  Fush'                      Mi Kuge i rk 
PROJECT ROADS                                                   T                                         Elloth    MACEDONIA
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                      MACEDONIA
41'30'                     DIRECTORATE CENTERS                              OUTT                               BolTl' '   DIo,d
o   SELECTED CITIES
e   BORDER CROSSINGS                                                       T H A P4 iF
PORTS                                     Du,
+    AIRPORTS                                                 J
3  DISTRICT CENTERS
   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                       K-jb
NATIONAL ROADS \.
RAILROADS                                           KA   JE
RIVERS                                                                            Elba         Q.k.      T
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                 ELBASAN       P.".
41 00                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  41'00'
hLtOwwlETEFtS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o -o                                    n  ieo      -
G GRAMSC
0     10    20    30    40    50                         _P dne                                                                             j
RILDMETERS
a  GEt^^NY 1 tv - i <wa 9 G~~~~.~pteo                                    LLOAKA5ER                                        orE5
40SH0'                                                                                                                  oo /D                                        4000
IATTA1' .A'RUSSIAN
DENMARK                   --'I /dFD
,2;i       Te=:3 . -pelen  3 ~                                          2
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BEA.AUS ~
POLAND                                                                                      JRK TE
GERM,ANY   '
100  fCZECH"-E       )    ~~~UKRAINE
U',    REP                                                                                                                                 GREECE
ASR~ HUNGARY /         N'
ROMANIA
A-    I                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THU, -tp 000Pnd-od by th~
t0OC00~~~~~~~   t                                  Colt           'i3~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ loUnojon ~~~~~~Mop DeUBi So if .1Th. W-nld BoA.
VOtP                                                                                                               The 6-od-,ieo, -oonde- iotio
IIALY            ~~~BULGARIA                                                                     RAN    -4      1                1 -oywhloo W-on,OotHoo-
100                                               N     e                    Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; -oP d0 coO opfy, eo HA Per[ of
A,-c,fe .                                                                                                                              The W-lddo-oRG-op, -cy Iedg-e
400-                       /                                                                                                                   0doccoooeope~  f             t
GREE   TURKEY                                                                                                                            t
0  IS                   70                                                  103                                                    20'30'                      2100 '



