Report No. PID8779
Project Name                     Albania-Emergency Road Repair Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       ALPE68853
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND TRANSPORT
Address: General Roads Directorate,
Rruga Sami Frasheri, Tirana
Contact Person:
Tel: 355-42-236 00
Fax: 355-42-236 00
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 18, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 7, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Albania's road infrastructure is in very poor condition from years of
neglect, in spite of three IDA projects in this sector. The Rural Roads
Project, aimed at the improvement of Albania's 12,000 km of rural roads,
is still under implementation, as is the National Roads Project, intended
to construct additions to the 3,221 km main road network. The need for
this emergency project became apparent after the Kosovo conflict, during
which a large number of refugees, humanitarian aid and NATO convoys put an
enormous strain on the Durres (main port) - Morin (border with Kosovo)
road and the Berat - Corovode road. Nearly 500,000 refugees entered
Albania through the Morin border crossing, continuing through Kukes to the
southern parts of Albania (Shkoder, Tirana, Durres, Berat, and Corovode),
and to the Berat-Corovode area where two refugee camps were located.
Simultaneously, humanitarian aid and NATO heavy vehicles brought through
Durres port and Tirana airport were transported to the refugee camps, and
later, to Kosovo as the refugees returned to their homes, increasing the
daily traffic from 500 to as much as 15,000 vehicles. The intensive heavy
traffic during the refugee crisis has caused these roads, designed for
bearing capacity of 2 tons and built using poor standards and technology
in the early seventies, to deteriorate to a critical condition. There are
road sections on these routes that have lost all or most of the asphalt
surfacing, decreasing the average speed to 25-30 km/hour, and even lower
for the obsolete vehicle fleet during bad weather conditions. The present
traffic composition remains heavy, including a number of five-axle
trailers and semi-trailers. By the time that the need for improvement of
these two roads became apparent, IDA resources made available for the
Rural Roads (750.0 km of rural roads rehabilitated) and National Roads
(33.0 km constructed and 13.0 km rehabilitated) projects were already
fully committed.The Bank strategy for addressing this need, discussed and
agreed with the Government, involves a two-tier approach that focuses in



the short term (no more than three years) on urgent road repairs for a
limited number of roads damaged as the result of the Kosovo crisis, and
continues in parallel with the preparation of a regular road investment
operation that will support sector reforms and provide for major road
rehabilitation affecting the entire network. Specifically, the two tier
approach would include: Short-term priority investment program - urgent
repair works aimed at restoring serviceability of two critical roads; and
- technical support for project implementation, works supervision and
preparation of a     regular investment operation. Medium- to long-term
investment program - rehabilitation of existing road infrastructure; and -
improved policy framework and institutional restructuring for better asset
management,     including gradual privatization of road maintenance
services.The need for a Medium- and Long-term Investment Program,
including institutional restructuring, has been discussed and agreed with
the Government. An agreement on the basic outline of the restructuring,
presented in the Government's policy letter, was received by the Bank on
November 3, 1999 (attached as Annex 11).
2. Objectives
The proposed project is an emergency operation aimed at restoring the
serviceability of the main route connecting the Adriatic Sea (Port of
Durres) to Kosovo, and of the Berat-Corovode national road. Both of these
roads were damaged by heavy refugee convoys, humanitarian aid and NATO
vehicles during the Kosovo crisis.The single objective of the proposed
project is to assist the Government of Albania in restoring the
serviceability of these two roads.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA has had an active and significant portfolio in Albania, with over
US$300 million of ongoing or planned investments, and has been the primary
donor in supporting the reform efforts of the Government. IDA's
leadership role in the donor community was further reinforced by its
management of the crisis that followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes
in March 1997. In response to the Kosovo conflict, IDA has recently
approved a US$45 million Structural Adjustment Credit and a US$30 million
Public Expenditure Support Credit.In the transport sector (amounting to
about one third of the Bank/IDA total portfolio in Albania), the first
transport project has been completed, and two roads projects and one port
project are currently under implementation. Through these projects, IDA is
supporting a long-term reform of the transport sector, in agreement with
the goals stated in the CAS. While implementing the above projects, the
MoT staff continue to receive training in management (i) to make
investment decisions on the basis of economic criteria, (ii) to further
privatize the road construction industry (including engineering and
construction), (iii) to reorganize the MoT, and (iv) to adopt market-based
regulations, taxes, and user charges. Project preparation has required
intensive IDA involvement. Implementation will be monitored through
intensive supervision and will require a high degree of flexibility to be
able to adapt to rapidly changing circumstances. Implementation progress
will be formally evaluated approximately six months after effectiveness,
when project implementation should be well advanced. The Bank's Resident
Mission in Tirana is closely involved with project preparation and will
continue this involvement during implementation. The Resident Mission
will be available to speed all decisions and mitigate any delays.
- 2 -



4. Description
1. Emergency Road Repair Works to restore 221 km of the national road
network to serviceable condition
2. Goods: Laboratory, Office, and Environmental Mitigation Equipment,
Software and Vehicle
3. Training and Consultants Services:
- Project Related Training, including financial and environmental
management, procurement, and relevant technical issues in road and bridge
design, construction, and maintenance
- Consultant Services for Supervision of Road Works
- Consultant Services for the Operation of the PIU
- Project Audits
- Preparation of design and bidding documents for the second-year program
of works
- Preparation of Durres-Morin Road Feasibility Study
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.81
IBRD
IDA                      13.65
Total Project Cost       14.46
6. Implementation
Bank experience acquired during implementation of one already completed
and three ongoing projects shows that the MoT/GRD absorptive capacity
remains rather low. For that reason, and despite the existence of two PIUs
presently working with GRD, the Bank proposed and the Government agreed to
appoint an independent PIU to implement the Project. The Director General
of the GRD will appoint a PIU Director with appropriate qualifications.
The PIU director will hire the PIU staff as follows: one engineer to
support procurement activities, one accountant/budget officer, one
bilingual secretary, and one driver. The speed of implementation required
to bring the expected benefits of the Project requires expertise in
coordination, supervision, and quality control of road works contracts.
To provide the additional management capability needed to organize,
supervise and control implementation of the project, the PIU will be
assisted by experienced professionals from a full service consulting firm,
including supervising engineers and a procurement expert.The PIU will be
responsible for overall project management, coordination, and planning
including the preparation of an Action Plan, procurement of design, goods,
civil works and consultants services, financial management and reporting.
The PIU will report to and coordinate with the GRD. Also, the PIU will
coordinate, on aspects directly related to the Project, with the
international donor community participating in the road sector in Albania
in order to assure that there are no overlaps with the activities of other
donors.Disbursements are expected to be completed within 36 months from
the date of effectiveness. To facilitate timely project implementation,
the Borrower will establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a project account and a Special Account in US
dollars in the National Bank of Albania, to be managed by the PIU.
Establishment of the project account (for counterpart funds) would be a
-3 -



condition of effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
The Project itself is designed to meet an immediate need rather than
addressing longer term issues. Also at the civil works level, the road
repairs are designed for rapid implementation rather than long term
sustainability of the roads being repaired. However, sustainability will
be addressed by the assurances that will be required from the Government
regarding the follow-on project that is under preparation, which will
include major restructuring of the road maintenance organizations and
introduce improved technology and management techniques that will put
future road maintenance operations on a more sustainable basis than it
was in the past.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank-wide experience shows that successful implementation of projects of
an emergency nature require: (i) a technically and operationally sound
rapid assessment of needs with a well-defined priority strategy and
objectives; (ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements;
(iii) simplicity in the procurement and disbursement procedures for
efficient and rapid component implementation; (iv) clear operational
procedures to guide project targeting and component selection; (v) the
need for strong supervision and financial controls at the PIU level; and
(vi) institutional autonomy and freedom from political interference to
allow selection and implementation of components quickly and
transparently. Implementation experience in civil works in Albania has
also shown that there should be major emphasis on construction quality
control. It takes into account the lessons learnt form the previous
transport projects, but also aims at more progressive set of reforms.This
experience is reflected in the design of this Project. The project has a
simple design, provision for foreign consultant services to assist in
project supervision, including procurement, and emphasis placed on the
selection of qualified staff for the newly appointed PIU. Use of one of
the two existing PIUs has also been considered. However, as both PIUs are
in charge of projects still under implementation and the absorptive
capacity of GRD is rather limited (Section C4), the Bank proposed and GoA
agreed to create a new PIU that could dedicate all its time to implement
the project. Also, IDA's experience in working with GRD (and its PIUs)
during the three previous projects has been constructive and cooperative
and bodes well for the success of this Project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment) this project has been assigned to "Category B" and an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared. Since the project
is an emergency loan, OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance) is also
applicable. The EMP includes, inter alia, results of consultations with
affected groups, stakeholders, and appropriate NGOs. No major
environmental issues are anticipated. Since the project objective is to
improve serviceability for about 221 km of existing roads by patching
potholes, replacement of war damaged asphalt portions, improving drainage
etc. the main issues are in connection with the impacts associated with
the movement of workers, materials, and equipment to and from the
- 4 -



construction sites (e.g. dust, noise, impact on agricultural land etc.).
Environmental performance of asphalt plants and quarrying activities
supplying materials to the project will be evaluated as well as issues of
worker safety and health for each of these aspects. In addition to a
policy of doing no harm, opportunities for environmental improvements will
also be sought. All these aspects have been considered in the EMP. The
EMP is being cleared with the National Environmental Agency of Albania.
Subsequently, it will be made available for the public review, and sent to
the Bank by November 15, 1999, for clearance.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Cesar Queiroz
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



